UPPER MILFORD TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Res. 2025-022, passed 2-6-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE No. 160
AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF UPPER MILFORD TOWNSHIP, LEHIGH
COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATING, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING
AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF UPPER MILFORD TOWNSHIP AND
ADOPTING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF UPPER MILFORD TOWNSHIP, PENNSYLVANIA
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent Ordinances of Upper Milford
Township are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of Upper Milford Township (“Township”) and for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Township is empowered and authorized to consolidate, revise,
restate, codify and compile any existing Ordinances and all new Ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such Ordinances into one
Ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the Township has authorized a general
compilation, restatement, codification and compilation of its Ordinances of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such Ordinance in one book; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Township and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Township that this Ordinance take effect.
   NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained and enacted by the Board of Supervisors of
Upper Milford Township as follows:
   1.   The general Ordinances of Upper Milford Township as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of Upper Milford Township, Pennsylvania”.
   2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted shall consist of the following
titles:
   CHAPTER
         TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
         TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Township Officials
      31.   Township Organizations
      32.   Township Employees
      33.   Township Plans and Policies
      34.   Hazardous, Disaster and Emergency Relief
      35.   Taxation
      36.   Fee Schedule
         TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Solid Waste and Recycling
      51.   Water
      52.   Holding Tanks
      53.   Grinder Pumps
      54.   Sewers
      55.   Wastewater
         TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Traffic Schedules
      72.   Parking Schedules
         TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Streets, Sidewalks and Driveways
      91.   Parks and Recreation
      92.   Fire Regulations
         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Peddling, Canvassing and Soliciting
      111.   Landlords and Renters
      112.   Junk Dealers
      113.   Moving of Household Goods
         TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Offenses
         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Buildings
      151.   Floodplains
      152.   Stormwater Management Regulations
      153.   Comprehensive Plan
      154.   Subdivisions and Land Development
      155.   Zoning
      156.   Official Map
   3.   All prior Ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
Ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or part in such
Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of Ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other Ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   4.   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Township that if any
title, section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is declared
unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise invalid by the judgment, or decree of
competent jurisdiction, that such invalidity shall not affect any of the
remaining tables, chapters, parts, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases of this Codification.
   5.   This Ordinance shall become effective immediately.
   ORDAINED AND ENACTED THIS  17th  DAY OF  January , 2019.
ATTEST:                        BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF
                           UPPER MILFORD TOWNSHIP
/s/                BY:
                                                                  
Secretary                                    , CHAIRPERSON
                                                                                        
                                       , VICE CHAIRPERSON
                                                                                             
                                       , SUPERVISOR
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
10.02   Amendments and supplements; numbering
   
10.03   Definitions and interpretation
   
10.04   Separability of provisions
   
10.05   Sections and ordinances repealed
   
10.06   Exemptions from repeal
   
10.07   Code enforcement policy
 
   
10.99   General code penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   This volume consists of all ordinances and resolutions of a general
and permanent nature of the municipality, as revised, codified, arranged,
numbered and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters and sections,
and as such shall be known and designated as the “codified ordinances of Upper
Milford Township”, for which designation “codified ordinances” may be
substituted. Title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the codified ordinances.
   (B)   All references to titles, chapters and sections are to such components
of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may
be referred to and cited by the designation section symbol (“§”) followed by
the number, such as “§ 10.01”.
§ 10.02 AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS; NUMBERING.
   (A)   The codified ordinances of Upper Milford Township may be amended or
supplemented at any time and, when any amendment or supplement is adopted in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Supervisors to make the
same a part thereof, such amendment or supplement shall be incorporated in, and
deemed a part of, the codified ordinances, so that a reference to the codified
ordinances shall be understood and construed as including the codified
ordinances of Upper Milford Township and any and all such amendments and
supplements.
   (B)   All amendments and supplements enacted as a part of the codified
ordinances shall be integrated therewith by following the form of arrangement
and plan set forth as follows: each title shall be subdivided into chapters,
and each chapter shall be subdivided into sections, which shall be numbered in
accordance with the decimal numbering system. The numbering of all sections,
except penalty sections, shall be consecutive within each chapter commencing
with the first section of Chapter 10, which shall be numbered 10.01, the first
“10” signifying the chapter number within the code, and the two figures “01”
after the decimal signifying the first section in Chapter 10 of the code.
Penalty sections shall be designated “99” and shall be the last section of a
chapter.
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   In the construction of the codified ordinances, the following rules and
definitions shall control, excepting those inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Board of Supervisors as disclosed in a particular provision,
section or chapter. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ADOPTING ORDINANCE. The ordinance of the municipality adopting the codified
ordinances of Upper Milford Township in conformity with the Second Class
Township Code.
   AUTHORITY. Whenever in the codified ordinances authority is given to an
officer or an act is required to be performed, such AUTHORITY may be exercised
and such act may be performed, at the instance of such officer, by a deputy or
subordinate, unless contrary to law or to the clear intent of any such
particular provision.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The legislative authority of the township.
   CALENDAR; COMPUTATION OF TIME. The terms MONTH and YEAR mean the calendar
month or year. The time expressed in days within which an act is to be done or
a period is to expire shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday, in which case it shall be
excluded. If time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday shall be excluded.
   CONJUNCTIONS. AND includes OR and OR includes AND, if the sense so requires.
   COUNTY. The County of Lehigh, Pennsylvania.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine shall extend and be applied to the
feminine and neuter genders.
   GENERAL RULE. Except as otherwise provided in this section, words and
phrases shall be construed according to the common usage of the language;
provided, however, that technical words and phrases and such others as may have
acquired a special meaning in the law shall be construed according to such
technical or special meaning.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words giving authority to a board, commission, authority or
to three or more officers or employees or other persons shall be construed as
giving authority to a majority thereof, unless otherwise specifically provided.
   KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and
copartnerships, whether acting themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND and REAL ESTATE. Include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LAW. All applicable laws of the United States of America and the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   MUNICIPALITY. Upper Milford Township, Pennsylvania.
   NUMBER. Words in the plural include the singular and words in the singular
include the plural.
   OATH. Includes affirmation. When an OATH is required or authorized by law,
an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious
scruples about taking an oath. An affirmation shall have the same force and
effect as an OATH.
   ORDINANCE. Includes any ordinance of the municipality, including any
provision of these codified ordinances.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes a part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or any part of such property.
   PERSON. An individual, association, club, corporation, firm, partnership,
body politic or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. When used as applicable to property, extends to and includes land
and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property and any mixed and lesser
estates or interests therein. PERSONAL PROPERTY includes every kind of property
except real property; REAL PROPERTY includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
   PUBLISH. To print in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
the entire document or a brief summary thereof with a listing of places where
copies have been filed and times when they are available for inspection.
   REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act to be done
or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be deemed to mean such
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such act or the
giving of such notice.
   RESIDENCE. An abode in which a person permanently resides.
   RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. A determination of policy or effect
of law formalized of Upper Milford Township by vote of the Board of
Supervisors.
   SECOND CLASS TOWNSHIP CODE. The Second Class Township Code of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, being the Act of May 1, 1933 (P.L. 103, No. 69),
re-enacted and amended November 9, 1995 (P.L. 350, No. 60), as amended, being
53 P.S. §§ 65101 et seq.
   SHALL and MAY. SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
   STATE and COMMONWEALTH. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   STREET. Alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, streets, state highways
and other public ways in the municipality.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to buildings or land, shall extend and be
applied to any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the
whole or any part of, a building or land, alone or with others.
   TENSES. The use of any verb in the present tense includes the future.
   TIME. Whenever any time established in the codified ordinances for the
taking of any action expires on a Sunday or a legal holiday, such time shall
not expire on such day but shall expire on the next week day.
   TOWNSHIP. The Municipality of Upper Milford, Pennsylvania.
   UNIT. Any governmental entity of the municipality.
§ 10.04 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section and each part of each section of these codified ordinances,
including each section and each part of each section of any standard technical
code adopted by reference in these codified ordinances, is hereby declared to
be an independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such section or part of a section, or any
provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining sections or parts of
sections and the application of such provision to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to which it is held invalid or
unconstitutional, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that these codified ordinances would have been
adopted independently of such section or part of a section so held to be
invalid or unconstitutional.
§ 10.05 SECTIONS AND ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the municipality, and
parts of the same, in conflict with any of the provisions of these codified
ordinances, are hereby repealed.
§ 10.06 EXEMPTIONS FROM REPEAL.
   The repeal provided for in §
10.05 shall not affect:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the adoption
of these codified ordinances;
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money by or to the municipality, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the municipality, or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness, or any
contract or obligation assumed by the municipality;
   (C)   The administrative ordinances and resolutions of the Board of
Supervisors not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of these
codified ordinances;
   (D)   Any right, license or franchise conferred by any ordinance or
resolution of the Board of Supervisors on any person;
   (E)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing, naming, relocating or
vacating any street or other public way;
   (F)   Any ordinance or resolution or part thereof providing for the
establishment of positions, for salaries or compensation;
   (G)   Any prosecution, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered, on or prior to the adoption of these codified ordinances;
   (H)   Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing taxes or assessments;
   (I)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing or changing the boundaries of
the municipality; or
   (J)   Any ordinance or resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors after
the adoption of these codified ordinances.
§ 10.07 CODE ENFORCEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   As of February 16, 1997, Act 172 of 1996 of the Pennsylvania Second
Class Township Code was changed. Incorporated within this change was a section
which provides mandatory criminal enforcement for ordinances regulating
building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire, public safety, parking,
solicitation, curfew, water, air and noise pollution violations. With these
changes in enforcement an authority in the Second Class Township Code, the
township attempts to obtain compliance with the township ordinances through
verbal and written communication with the alleged violator rather than fining
immediately for punishment. This type of enforcement emphasis is called
voluntary compliance.
   (B)   When an enforcement policy is adhered to by the Zoning and Codes
Enforcement Officer, voluntary compliance can be achieved. This enforcement
policy is intended to provide guidance for enforcement, but this policy can be
deviated or modified to fit the needs of obtaining compliance, especially when
violations exist that are a serious danger to life, health and safety. Many
citizens are unaware that they have committed a violation. With voluntary
compliance, using an oral and written warning system, the Zoning and Codes
Enforcement Officer is likely to obtain compliance without setting in motion
formal sanctions such as issuing an enforcement notice, filing a summary non-
traffic citation or civil complaint form with the local District Judge upon the
alleged violator. The following enforcement procedure is typically how the
township and the Zoning and Codes Enforcement Officer will attempt to gain
compliance.
      (1)   Oral warning is given, via telephone call (if the phone number is
known) or by on-site meeting when possible and if the violation is not serious.
If an oral warning is not possible, then the Zoning Officer proceeds to the
next step.
      (2)   A formal inspection report is given either by an on-site meeting or
sent by certified mail with a violation warning letter. The inspection report
will give specific deadline dates in order for the violator to come into
compliance with township ordinances. The inspection report documents site
conditions, type and nature of violation(s) and other pertinent information
required by the officer to properly conduct the inspection. If deadlines are
not met for compliance, then the Zoning Officer proceeds to the next step.
      (3)   A civil enforcement notice (EN) is then sent to the owner of the
property if violations continue to exist past the deadline date given in the
inspection report or warning letter. Official cease and desist orders of the
violations or suspension or revocation of current permits maybe included within
the EN. The owner at this time has a chance to appeal the alleged violations to
the Zoning Hearing Board. The Zoning Hearing Board does not have enforcement
authority to levy fines. The purpose of the Zoning Hearing Board is to either
affirm or deny violations to the Zoning Hearing Board within the deadline
stated in the EN, then the Zoning Officer will proceed to the next step.
      (4)   Filing a summary non-traffic citation or a civil complaint form
with the office of the local District Judge is the next step. It is the policy
of the township to seek the maximum fine allowed by the law for each violation,
each day that the violation exists ($1,000 per day per violation). All court
costs plus legal expenses incurred by the township to try to obtain compliance
will also be included in the final determination of the cost of the fine.
Should the owner appeal the Districts Judge’s decision, the cost of the fine
will be raised by the township to the maximum extent allowed by law in the
County Court of Common Pleas, plus court costs and legal fees. It is the goal
of the township however not to take any case this far unless all methods of
voluntary compliance have failed. In certain circumstances where there is a
continuing violation existing that is a serious threat and danger to life,
health, and safety of the adjoining properties or individuals, an injunction
may be filed by the township to abate the violation. This is a costly procedure
for the township and usually will be used as a last resort to achieve
compliance. Also, if the injunction is ignored, the owner may be held in
contempt of court.
This enforcement policy has been instituted to provide a fair and reasonable
method for obtaining compliance. Along with this policy, the Township Zoning
and Codes Enforcement Officer will only respond to non-structural items such as
noise, lighting, and environmental issues by written complaint.
 
Zoning Complaint Form
This form must be completed for all filings of non-structural, grading and
environmental (noise, light, odors and the like) zoning complaints. All
complaints should be made in writing and filed with the zoning office of Upper
Milford Township. The person or persons filing this complaint shall understand
that by signing and/or attesting to the information contained herein may be
asked and/or summoned by subpoena to provide testimony on this complaint.
Accordingly, Upper Milford Township can only respond to your complaint if the
requested information on this form is provided. Remember, all complainants’
names are kept confidential unless otherwise forced by the courts.
________________________      ________________________
Name of Complainant         Date of Complaint
________________________      ________________________
Address            Telephone Number (Work/Home)
Name of owner and property’s address where alleged zoning violation is
occurring:
________________________   
Name of Individual
________________________      ________________________
Address            Telephone Number (Work/Home)
Please describe the alleged zoning violation in detail: (times, and dates of
alleged violations are needed with pictures, if possible)
_________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________
Please sign here that you agree that this complaint described above is true and
accurate to the best of your knowledge:
________________________      ________________________
Signature            Date
________________________      ________________________
Parcel ID Number         Date of Inspection Report
 
(Res. 2010-031, passed 11-4-2010)
§ 10.99 GENERAL CODE PENALTY; COMPLICITY.
   (A)   All township ordinances previously enacted which provide for fines for
violation of a building, housing, property maintenance, health, fire or public
safety code or ordinance, and for water, air and noise pollution violations,
and for the violation of any other township ordinance shall hereinafter be
enforced in a civil enforcement proceeding commenced by the township before a
District Justice with jurisdiction. Notice of such civil enforcement proceeding
shall be made in accordance with the applicable Pennsylvania Rules of Civil
Procedure. If a defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the
municipality may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable Rule of Civil
Procedure.
   (B)   For all township ordinances governing a building, housing, property
maintenance, health, fire or public safety code, and for water, air and noise
pollution violations, each such violation shall carry a fine not exceeding
$1,000 per day during which such violation shall continue, plus all court costs
and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the
violation. For all other township ordinances, the maximum fine shall be not
more than $600 per day during every day in which such violation shall continue.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; penalty, see 53 P.S. § 66601
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
      
31.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
      
33.   TOWNSHIP PLANS AND POLICIES
      
34.   HAZARDOUS, DISASTER AND EMERGENCY RELIEF
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Payment of compensation for Supervisors at public meetings
   
30.02   Authorizing certain operating expenditure disbursements
   
30.03   Bonding requirements
   
30.04   Conduct at meetings
   
30.05   Selling of personal property
   
30.06   Mileage reimbursement rate
Township Manager
   
30.15   Creation of office
   
30.16   Qualifications
   
30.17   Probationary period
   
30.18   Bond
   
30.19   General powers and duties
   
30.20   Specific powers and duties
   
30.21   Office/hours
   
30.22   Unable to perform duties
   
30.23   Compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION FOR SUPERVISORS AT PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   Each Supervisor of the township elected or appointed to office on or
after the effective date of this section shall receive compensation in the sum
of $2,500 per year.
   (B)   Such compensation shall be paid on a quarterly basis.
(Ord. 37, passed 12-27-1985; Ord. 37A, passed 12-7-1994; Ord. 37B, passed 12-
27-1995)
§ 30.02 AUTHORIZING CERTAIN OPERATING EXPENDITURE DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   Where a bill for payment is received by the Treasurer of the township
and the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Supervisors will not
timely allow the bill to be paid in order to receive a discount or in order to
avoid a penalty the Treasurer, upon review and approval by the Township
Manager, shall make payment in advance of such meeting subject to the
following:
      (1)   The bill is in an amount and in accordance with a written contract
previously approved by the Board of Supervisors and the goods or services and
amount of payment to which the bill relates comply with the terms of the
contract; or
      (2)   The bill is for goods or services routinely provided by vendors or
providers previously approved by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, all
payments of bills by the Treasurer, pursuant to this section, shall be
submitted to the Board of Supervisors at the next available meeting for
ratification and approval by the Board of Supervisors.
(Res. 2011-031, passed 12-29-2011)
§ 30.03 BONDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board of Supervisors establishes certain bonding requirements as may be
required for certain employees. The bond amounts can be found in the resolution
that is amended from time to time, a copy of which can be found in the township
office.
§ 30.04 CONDUCT AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   All items of business properly before the Board of Supervisors at any
meeting should be conducted according to the order set forth on the agenda,
which shall be prepared under the direction of the Chairperson. Persons wishing
to be placed on the agenda must contact the township office in writing at least
24 hours prior to the date of the meeting. The Chairperson may vary the order
of the agenda at his or her discretion.
   (B)   A person wishing to speak from the floor must first raise his or her
hand. Upon being recognized by the Chairperson, he or she shall rise, state his
or her name and principal place of residence (if he or she has not already done
so) and make his or her statements. When he or she desires to relinquish the
floor, or when he or she is so directed by the Chairperson, he or she shall
then be seated.
   (C)   Only one person may have the floor at any given time.
   (D)   All remarks shall be directed to the Board of Supervisors. No dialogue
shall be engaged in between members of the audience unless so directed or
permitted by the Chairperson.
   (E)   Any person who fails to abide by the rules of this section or who is
disruptive in any manner shall be warned by the Chairperson. A person who, for
the second time, fails to abide by the rules after being warned shall be
considered as disrupting a lawful meeting and shall be required to leave. Said
person may, at the discretion of the Chairperson, be charged with the
misdemeanor of disrupting meetings and processions (18 P.S. § 5508).
   (F)   The Chairperson shall be the final arbiter of all decisions under the
above rules and may waive or reinstate any rule at his or her discretion at any
time without prejudice.
(Res. 1981-004, passed 7-1-1981)
§ 30.05 SELLING OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors shall notify the Township Manager whenever
they desire to sell personal property, either individual items or lots of
items, the fair market of which is estimated to be less than $1,000.
   (B)   The Township Manager shall arrange for the sale of the personal
property and is authorized to sell on behalf of the township, such personal
property by whatever means he or she deems in the best interests of the
township.
   (C)   Following the sale, the Township Manager shall make a report to the
Board of Supervisors of the results of the sale.
(Res. 1991-001, passed 2-18-1999)
§ 30.06 MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT RATE.
   (A)   All officers and employees of the township shall be reimbursed at the
then prevailing Internal Revenue Service mileage reimbursement rate for the use
of a personal vehicle when required and actually used for authorized township
business.
   (B)   All such requests for reimbursement shall be submitted on a prescribed
form to the Township Secretary who shall be responsible for submitting the
formal request to the Board of Supervisors for their approval.
(Res. 1998-004, passed 3-5-1998)
TOWNSHIP MANAGER
§ 30.15 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby create the office of
Township Manager.
   (B)   While said office exists, the Supervisors shall, from time to time,
and whenever there is a vacancy, by majority vote, elect one person to fill
said office, who shall serve until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
   (C)   Any such Township Manager shall be subject to removal for just cause,
at any time, by the Supervisors by a majority vote.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 69B, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 30.16 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Township Manager shall be selected by the Supervisors solely on
the basis of executive and administrative qualifications, educational
background, communication skills and work experience, without regard to race,
color, creed, marital status or political affiliation.
   (B)   All applicants shall either:
      (1)   Possess a four-year college degree in municipal administration, or
its equivalent, together with at least two years of practical work experience
in municipal matters; or
      (2)   Have two years of college together with at least six years of
practical experience dealing with the general and specific powers and duties of
the Township Manager as set forth below.
   (C)   In addition, computer literacy shall be a requirement of this position
and regulatory familiarity is also deemed advisable.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above, the Supervisors shall have the right to
waive any and all qualifications for the position.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995)
§ 30.17 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Once selected, the Township Manager shall serve a six-month probationary
period of employment commencing on his or her first day of work. At the end of
this probationary period, a review will be held with the Supervisors. If deemed
necessary by the Supervisors, an additional six-month probationary period may
be granted. Within a reasonable period of time, as shall be determined by the
Supervisors, upon successful completion of the probationary period, the
Township Manager shall physically reside within a ten-mile radius of the
township.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 69B, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 30.18 BOND.
   Prior to commencing his or her duties, the Township Manager shall give bond
to the township, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the Supervisors in
the sum of in an amount that can be found in the resolution that is amended
from time to time as a condition for the faithful performance of his or her
duties. The premium for the bond will be paid by the township.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 69A, passed 11-1-1995; Res. 2017-011, passed 1-
3-2017; Res. 2018-010, passed 1-2-2018; Res. 2019-010, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 30.19 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Township Manager shall have the following general powers and duties:
   (A)   To have and exercise all powers and duties assigned or permitted by
law;
   (B)   To perform any non-legislative powers and duties of the Supervisors;
   (C)   To enforce and/or oversee the enforcement of all laws and ordinances
pertaining to the township;
   (D)   To attend meetings of the Supervisors, the Township Planning
Commission, the County Authority Wastewater Advisory Committee and any other
commissions, committees and boards as may be needed so as to be fully informed
about all activities that may affect the township;
   (E)   To keep the Supervisors informed of the affairs of the township;
   (F)   To recommend to the Supervisors such actions which may be necessary or
expedient for the benefit and welfare of the township;
   (G)   To administer, supervise and be responsible for the activities of all
administrative personnel, enforcement personnel, road personnel, recreational
personnel and other employees of the township;
   (H)   To oversee the implementation of all major projects affecting the
township, including, but not limited to, sewer, water, road construction,
building, recreation and the like; and
   (I)   To be the general purchasing agent on behalf of the township, except
as otherwise may be required by statute.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 69B, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 30.20 SPECIFIC POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to the general duties and powers set forth above, the Township
Manager shall have the following specific duties and powers:
   (A)   To oversee the daily affairs of the township through management of all
township employees and appointees, including, but not limited to,
administrative and clerical staff, road maintenance crews, codes enforcement
officials (if separate), zoning officers (if separate), building inspectors and
all other inspectors and/or departments as may be established in the future by
the Supervisors;
   (B)   To issue all work rules and disciplinary notices after review by, and
on behalf of, the Supervisors;
   (C)   To make recommendations concerning the hiring, promotion and/or
disciplining of any employee(s) under his or her jurisdiction to the
Supervisors;
   (D)   To assign tasks, duties and responsibilities to any employee under his
or her jurisdiction, with the understanding that the overall responsibility for
the proper execution of such duties remains exclusively with the Township
Manager;
   (E)   To plan, initiate, supervise, complete, cost and document all projects
and activities as assigned by the Supervisors, and ensure that all planning
activities under his or her jurisdiction are accomplished in a timely and
orderly manner;
   (F)   To review all proposed contracts involving the township for technical
accuracy and recommend action on those contracts to the Supervisors, subject to
review by the Township Solicitor;
   (G)   To exercise general purchasing authority on behalf of the township,
except as otherwise specifically required by law, subject to limits established
by the Supervisors;
   (H)   To make all purchases of supplies, materials and equipment authorized
by the Supervisors subject to the manner prescribed by, and the limitations
imposed by, the law; however, no purchase shall be made or obligation incurred
except upon authorization of the Supervisors and no expense or obligation
incurred except for the purpose for which it was intended;
   (I)   To maintain accurate inventory control of all consumable items;
   (J)   To collect preliminary budgets from all departments under his or her
jurisdiction, and submit them to the Township Secretary/Treasurer for inclusion
in the preliminary budget for subsequent review and final approval by the
Supervisors;
   (K)   To request periodic status reports from the Township Secretary/
Treasurer as may be required by the Township Manager;
   (L)   To investigate and detail explanations of any major variations from
the budget to the Township Secretary/Treasurer and the Board of Supervisors;
   (M)   To maintain a current inventory listing of all real property of the
township, including, but not limited to, its history, location, status and
expenses accrued;
   (N)   To exercise responsibility for the care and custody of all such real
property, unless that property is assigned to another official or employee;
   (O)   To oversee the collection of information for newsletters, welcome
packages, grant requests and the like, and to publish such information;
   (P)   To prepare such reports as may be requested by the Supervisors; and
   (Q)   To perform all such tasks as may be necessary so that the township
will function efficiently on a daily basis.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 69B, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 30.21 OFFICE/HOURS.
   (A)   The Township Manager shall maintain an office in the township building
which office shall be open for a minimum of 40 hours a week.
   (B)   The office hours will be established by the Supervisors with
consideration to any and all suggestions made by the Township Manager.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995)
§ 30.22 UNABLE TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   In the event the Township Manager cannot or is unable to perform the duties
of his or her office due to his or her absence from the township, the appointed
designee as named in the reorganization meeting will act on his or her behalf.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995; Ord. 69B, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 30.23 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation for the Township Manager shall be set by resolution and
paid out of the General Fund of the township.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-1-1995)
CHAPTER 31: TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Joint Environmental Advisory Council
   
31.01   Creation and membership
   
31.02   Compensation and expenses
   
31.03   Chair
   
31.04   Advisory function limitation
   
31.05   Meetings
   
31.06   Duties of Council
   
31.07   Funds and accounting
   
31.08   Dissolution of Joint Environmental Advisory Council
Planning Commission
   
31.20   Established
   
31.21   Membership
   
31.22   Powers and duties
   
31.23   Alternate members
Open Space Committee
   
31.30   Recitals
   
31.31   Established
   
31.32   Compensation
   
31.33   Officers; meetings
   
31.34   Attendance
   
31.35   Meetings
   
31.36   Order of business
   
31.37   Quorum
   
31.38   Duties
Recreation Commission
   
31.50   Established
Fire Department
   
31.60   Fundraising activities
   
31.61   Workers’ compensation coverage for certain members of volunteer fire
companies
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Hearing Board, see §§
155.029 and
155.030
JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 31.01 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Borough of Emmaus and Upper Milford Township hereby create a Joint
Environmental Advisory Council.
   (B)   The Environmental Advisory Council (EAC) shall be composed of eight
members, four residents representing each of the two municipalities.
   (C)   Council members shall be appointed in accordance with the following
procedures:
      (1)   Each governing body shall appoint four members of the Council and
of whom shall be a resident of the appointing municipality.
      (2)   Whenever possible, one member appointed by each participating
municipality shall also be a member of the municipal planning commission of
that municipality.
      (3)   Council members terms of office shall expire on the first Monday in
January following the last year of their term of office, provided, however,
that members shall continue to serve until their successors are appointed by
the appropriate municipality in the event successors are not appointed as of
the first Monday in January following the last year of their term.
      (4)   Members of the Council shall serve terms of three years, except
that the terms of the initial members appointed by their respective
municipality shall be staggered as follows: one member’s term shall initially
be for one year, one member’s initial term shall be for two years and two
members initial terms shall be for three years. Terms of the initial members
shall be determined after the appointment of the initial eight members of the
Council through the drawing of lots among them or other method acceptable to
the members at their organization meeting. Members shall continue to serve
until their successors are duly appointed by the appropriate participating
municipality.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   Members shall receive no compensation for their services but may be
reimbursed for the expenses actually and necessarily incurred by them in the
performance of their duties when, as and to the extent that the Environmental
Advisory Council may have funds available for such purposes. The participating
municipalities may, from time to time, elect in their sole discretion to make
appropriations to or on behalf of the Environmental Advisory Council. The
Environmental Advisory Council may accept funding from public or private
sources to further its activities. The adoption of this subchapter does not in
any way commit the adopting municipality to make any appropriation or payment
to or for the benefit of the Environmental Advisory Council.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
§ 31.03 CHAIR.
   A chair of the Environmental Advisory Council shall be elected annually
during the month of January by the members of the Council.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
§ 31.04 ADVISORY FUNCTION LIMITATION.
   (A)   The Environmental Advisory Council is to be advisory to and shall
coordinate its activities with the elected officials of the participating
municipalities and the elected official, their planning commissions and their
park and/or recreation boards, with appropriate agencies of the participating
municipalities, including, but not limited to on matters dealing with
environmental issues common to both municipalities that the municipal officials
direct the Council to investigate.
   (B)   The Environmental Advisory Council shall not exercise any powers or
perform any duties, which by law are conferred or imposed upon a commonwealth
agency.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
§ 31.05 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Council shall be held at the call of the chair and at such
other times as the Council shall determine. All meetings of the Council shall
be open to the public, except for the meetings which may be held in executive
session under applicable law for the purpose of preparing and delivering advice
to the governing bodies of the participating municipalities concerning the
acquisition or disposition of real estate. The Council shall keep records of
its meetings and activities and shall make a written annual report to the
governing bodies of the municipalities. To the extent that either of the
municipalities publish or file annual reports of their activities, the annual
report of the Environmental Advisory Council shall be included in the
municipality’s annual report. If either of the participating municipalities do
not publish or file an annual report, such municipality shall make appropriate
arrangements to have the annual report of the Environmental Advisory Council
made known and available to its citizens.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
§ 31.06 DUTIES OF COUNCIL.
   The Environmental Advisory Council shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To develop by laws of the Environmental Advisory Council for approval
of the participating municipalities;
   (B)   To advise the appropriate governmental agencies concerning the
benefits of, potential for, methods for accomplishing and other facts relevant
to the management recommendations contained in the Wellhead Protection Plan and
the Leibert Creek Watershed Assessment;
   (C)   To identify environmental problems, issues and trends affecting the
participating municipalities;
   (D)   To recommend plans and programs to the appropriate agencies of the
municipalities for the promotion and conservation of the natural resources and
for the protection and improvement of the quality of the environment within the
corporate boundaries of the municipalities;
   (E)   To make recommendations as to the appropriate use of open land areas;
   (F)   To develop, recommend, and promote community environmental programs
designed to enhance public awareness of environmental issues affecting the
municipalities, the alternatives available to address such issues, and the
impact each alternative may have upon the environment and the development of
the region;
   (G)   To work cooperatively with public, private, commercial, and industrial
entities in the area to develop a better understanding of the potential
environmental impacts of public and private sector actions and to coordinate
activities to minimize any negative impact arising therefrom; and
   (H)   To undertake such additional environmental tasks as requested by the
joint action of the governing bodies of the participating municipalities.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
§ 31.07 FUNDS AND ACCOUNTING.
   To the extent that the Environmental Advisory Council receives public or
private funding, all such funds shall be held, administered, and paid on behalf
of the Environmental Advisory Council by the finance officials of the Borough
of Emmaus or Upper Milford Township under and in accord with the generally
accepted accounting practices applicable to municipalities.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
§ 31.08 DISSOLUTION OF JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   If either the Borough of Emmaus or Upper Milford Township determines that
future participation in the Environmental Advisory Council is no longer
beneficial, either may jointly or separately repeal this subchapter with
written notice of same.
(Ord. 104, passed 1-20-2005)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created and established a Township Planning Commission in
the township, to be hereafter known as the Planning Commission of Upper Milford
Township.
(Ord. 12, passed 4-5-1961)
§ 31.21 MEMBERSHIP.
   Effective May 1, 2016, the Commission shall consist of seven members, all of
whom shall be residents of the township.
(Ord. 12, passed 4-5-1961; Ord. 20, passed 4-3-1974; Ord. 137, passed 9-4-2014)
§ 31.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have powers and duties as provided for in the
Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. 12, passed 4-5-1961; Ord. 12A, passed 12-27-1962)
§ 31.23 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The membership of the Planning Commission shall also include two alternate
members.
(Res. 2016-021, passed 4-21-2016)
OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE
§ 31.30 RECITALS.
   (A)   The township is a second class township located in Old Zionsville,
Pennsylvania.
   (B)   On August 2, 1995, the Board of Supervisors (hereinafter “Board”)
created an agricultural security area within the township.
   (C)   On February 5, 2004, the Board adopted the Upper Milford Township
Park, Recreation, Open Space, and Environmental Plan.
   (D)   On August 21, 2005, the Board adopted the Southwestern Lehigh County
Comprehensive Plan.
   (E)   All of the foregoing provide, in part, for the preservation of open
space and undeveloped land within the township.
   (F)   The Board is desires of forming a committee to recommend plans,
policies and programs for the promotion and retention of open space and land
preservation within the township.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.31 ESTABLISHED.
   The Board hereby establishes the creation of the Upper Milford Township Open
Space Committee (hereinafter “OSC”). The OSC shall be composed of nine
residents of the township, at least one member of which shall be a then current
member of the Township Planning Commission, the Environmental Advisory Council
(township member), the Township Recreation Commission and the Township
Agricultural Security Area Advisory Committee. OSC members shall be appointed
by the Board and shall serve a term of three years, except that the terms of
the initial members appointed shall be staggered as follows: three members
shall initially serve through the first Monday in January of 2009; three
members shall serve through the first Monday in January of 2010; and three
members shall serve through the first Monday in January of 2011. Any vacancies
shall be filled by the Board as soon as practicable such that the new appointee
shall fill the unexpired term of the member creating the vacancy.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.32 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the OSC shall receive no compensation for their services but may
be reimbursed for the expenses actually and necessarily incurred by them in the
performance of their duties upon prior approval from the Board. The Board may,
from time to time, elect in its sole discretion to make appropriations to, or
on behalf of, the OSC; however, adoption of this subchapter does not in any way
commit the Board to make such appropriation or prepayment to or on behalf of
the OSC.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.33 OFFICERS; MEETINGS.
   Within 30 days of its creation and appointment of all members, the OSC shall
meet and elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary, each of whom
shall be elected by a majority vote of the OSC members present at the meeting.
Thereafter, the OSC shall meet each January and elect officers by a majority
vote of the OSC members present at the meeting. The OSC shall meet at such
additional times as shall be determined by the Chairperson, but not less than a
total of four times annually. All meetings of the OSC shall be lawfully
advertised and open to the public, except for authorized meetings which may
occur in executive session under applicable law. The OSC shall keep written
minutes of its meetings, and shall deliver a written annual report including a
record of its meetings and activities to the Board for consideration at its
reorganization meeting in January of each year.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.34 ATTENDANCE.
   Any OSC member who is absent for three consecutive regular meetings during
one calendar year or is absent from six regular meetings during any 12-month
period, without reasonable cause, shall be notified by the Chairperson, on
behalf of the OSC, in writing of that fact, including a summary of the member’s
attendance record with a request of the member to indicate the reasons for his
or her nonattendance, in writing, within 20 calendar days or appear in person
at the next regular monthly OSC meeting whichever occurs later. If the notified
member fails to timely respond or appear at the next regular meeting, or if the
member replies or appears but in the judgment of the majority of the other OSC
members reflects nonfeasance in office, then the OSC shall notify the Board of
all relevant facts including a recommendation to remove such member from
office, and the Board shall promptly act on that recommendation.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.35 MEETINGS.
   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the OSC and shall have the
duties normally conferred by parliamentary usage of such office. In the absence
of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall act in his or her stead. The
Secretary shall keep the minutes and records of the meeting, prepare the
agenda, as directed by the Chair, for all members, provide proper notice of all
meetings as required by law and to all members and perform all duties normally
conferred by parliamentary use of such office. Any vacancies in an officer’s
position shall be promptly filled by a majority vote of all OSC members. To the
extent that township staff is available, the Board of Supervisors may assign a
staff person to aid with the administrative duties of the OSC.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.36 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at meetings of the OSC shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Public comments;
   (C)   Review of minutes of prior meeting and action thereon;
   (D)   Report of officers;
   (E)   Old business;
   (F)   New business; and
   (G)   Adjournment.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.37 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of five members of the OSC, and all votes require
approval of a majority of the attending members provided a quorum is present.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
§ 31.38 DUTIES.
   The OSC shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To recommend to the Board plans, policies and programs for the
promotion and retention of open space and land preservation within the
township;
   (B)   To advise and recommend to the Board on uses of open space and land
preservation considering reports of the Township Natural and Working Farms
Action Plan; the Township Park, Recreation, Open Space and Environmental Plan;
the Environmental Advisory Council; the Southwestern Lehigh County
Comprehensive Plan; and any and all relevant state laws and regulations
pertaining to open space and land preservation that exist or may be
subsequently enacted;
   (C)   To develop, recommend and promote community programs designed to
enhance public awareness of issues affecting open space and land preservation
within the township;
   (D)   To work cooperatively with public, private, commercial and industrial
entities within the township to develop a comprehensive understanding of the
potential impacts of use and development by such entities upon open space and
undeveloped land; and
   (E)   To undertake such additional tasks as may be requested by the Board.
(Res. 2007-027, passed 10-4-2007)
RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 31.50 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Recreation Commission.
(Res. 1965-009, passed - - 1965)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.60 FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors hereby grants authorization to the members of
the Upper Milford Western District Fire Company No. 1 and the members of the
Vera Cruz Citizen’s Fire Company to engage in fundraising activities such as
fairs, carnivals, banquets, breakfasts, barbeques and other similar fundraising
activities as the fire company officers deem necessary for the efficient
operation of each fire company.
   (B)   Authorization is also granted for each fire company and the special
fire police to participate in mutual aid, parades, firemen’s training schools,
regular meetings, repairs to the building, work projects on the building, and
civic functions of the type customarily attended by and participated in by
volunteer fire companies and their members.
   (C)   Any claims for workmen’s compensation benefits made for injuries or
damages sustained as a result of those activities expressly authorized are to
be reviewed by the Pennsylvania Compensation Rating Bureau for payment under
the Workmen’s Compensation Act as they direct.
(Res. 1981-006, passed 10-7-1981)
§ 31.61 WORKERS COMPENSATION COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF VOLUNTEER FIRE
COMPANIES.
   (A)   Participating members of a voluntary fire company as that term is
defined in Section 1031(f) (4) of the Act, 77 P.S. §1031(f)(4), shall be
considered “Employees” for purposes of coverage under the Act.
   (B)   The necessary operational support provided by participating members
shall include the following activities including travel to the event or
traveling first to the fire company and then proceeding to the event, and on
return, traveling to the fire company and/or directly returning to the active
participant's home, place of business, or other place where he or she shall
have been before engaging in the activity:
      (1)   While participating in events at the request of the township to
offer community support, outreach services, or standby services at various
properties owned by the township such as, including but not limited to, its
parks, the township municipal building, township maintenance properties and
open space; and
      (2)   While participating in community public outreach services to
increase fire company visibility and relevance to area residents such as,
including but not limited to, Community Day, Easter Bunny Photo-Ops and visits,
Santa Claus visits and other holiday events, including while the vehicles are
in operation, alighting to or from the vehicle(s) or persons visits off vehicle
(s); and
      (3)   While participating in those activities that promote the public's
health and safety, such as, including but not limited to, the annual Open House
during Fire Prevention Week and visiting local schools and daycare facilities
to educate students and adults regarding public safety; and
      (4)   While participating in those activities related to purchasing
apparatus and equipment such as, including but not limited to, investigating
equipment at the Pennsylvania Fire Expo, manufacturers' sites, and equipment
sales sites; and
      (5)   While participating in activities related to the role of the
Chaplain for the fire company, such as, including but not limited to, providing
aid, comfort, grief counseling and spiritual support for fire company members
and those affected by an emergency crisis; and
      (6)   While cleaning the fire company hall for rental parties; and
      (7)   While transporting fire company apparatus/vehicles to and from
repair facilities and while at the repair facility; and
      (8)   While engaged in fundraising activities for the fire company such
as, including but not limited to, drawings, shoots, dinners, breakfasts
(including set up and break down), ceremonial events (including set up and
break down) such as the annual banquet, Christmas party and awards ceremony,
auctions and hall rentals; and
      (9)   While participating at the special request of area organizations or
initiated by the fire company, those myriad of activities typically associated
with fire company non-emergency duties and activities such as, including but
not limited to parades, funerals or viewing processions, public displays of
fire company equipment and apparatus, and Christmas tree lighting; and
      (10)   While participating in training or education programs sponsored by
the fire company or governmental entity; and
      (11)   While attending meetings relating to any function of the fire
company, wherever such meetings are located, such as, including but not limited
to, fire company meetings, municipal government meetings, relief association
meetings and County Chief meetings.
(Res. 2023-020, passed 4-20-2023; Res. 2024-025, passed 5-2-2024)
CHAPTER 32: TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Adopting written procedures in how professional services are chosen for
its pension plans
Municipal Pension Plan
   
32.15   Establishment of an employee defined benefit pension plan
   
32.16   Establishment of an employee defined contribution pension plan
Cross-reference:
   Township Officials, see
Chapter 30
   Township Organizations, see
Chapter 31
   Township Plans and Policies, see
Chapter 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ADOPTING WRITTEN PROCEDURES IN HOW PROFESSIONAL SERVICES ARE CHOSEN FOR
ITS PENSION PLANS.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby adopts the document entitled
“Policy and Procedure for Administration, Processing and Procurement of
Professional Services Contracts, Applies to all Municipal Pension Systems of
and for Upper Milford Township”. Copies of this document, which are on file in
the township offices, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Res. 2011-029, passed 12-14-2011)
MUNICIPAL PENSION PLAN
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF AN EMPLOYEE DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN.
   The township hereby adopts the employee defined benefit pension plan. A copy
of the plan can be found in the township office.
(Res. 1972-10, passed 12-29-1972)
§ 32.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF AN EMPLOYEE DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   Upper Milford Township (the "township"), having established a non-
uniform pension plan administered by the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement
System (the "System"), hereby elects to amend its non-uniform pension plan
administered by the System in accordance with Article IV of the Pennsylvania
Municipal Retirement Law, 53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq. (Retirement Law), and does
hereby agree to be bound by all the requirements and provisions of the
Retirement Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery
Act, 53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq., and to assume all obligations, financial and
otherwise, placed upon member municipalities.
   (B)   As part of this section, the township agrees that the System shall
administer and provide the benefits set forth in the amended non-uniform
pension plan document entered into between the Pennsylvania Municipal
Retirement Board and the township effective as of the date specified in the
adoption agreement (the "contract").
   (C)   The township acknowledges that by passage and adoption of this
section, the township officially accepts the contract and the financial
obligations resulting from the administration of the contract.
   (D)   Payment for any obligation established by the adoption of this section
and the contract shall be made by the township in accordance with the
Retirement Law and the Municipal Pension Plan Funding Standard and Recovery
Act. The township hereby assumes all liability for any unfundedness created due
to the benefit structure set forth in the contract.
   (E)   The township intends this section to be the complete authorization of
the contract, as amended and it shall become effective as of the date specified
in the adoption agreement, which is the effective date of the contract, as
amended.
   (F)   A duly certified copy of the ordinance adopted in this section and an
executed contract shall be filed with the System.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-7-2020)
CHAPTER 33: TOWNSHIP PLANS AND POLICIES
Section
Handicapped Nondiscrimination Grievance Policy
   
33.01   Committee established
   
33.02   Duties
   
33.03   Policy
   
33.04   Form
Clean Indoor Air Policy
   
33.15   Policy
   
33.16   Form
Public Records Policy
   
33.25   Designation of Open Records Officer
   
33.26   Action upon request for records
   
33.27   Information to be posted
   
33.28   Written request to access records
   
33.29   Fees
   
33.30   Effective date
 
   
33.99   Penalty
HANDICAPPED NONDISCRIMINATION GRIEVANCE POLICY
§ 33.01 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   A Handicapped Nondiscrimination Committee is hereby established, to be
chaired by the Handicapped Nondiscrimination Coordinator and with the following
additional members:
   (A)   A taxpayer who is handicapped;
   (B)   A taxpayer;
   (C)   A supervisory employee of the township; and
   (D)   A department head.
(Res. 1984-006, passed 9-5-1984)
§ 33.02 DUTIES.
   In addition to other duties of the position, the Handicapped
Nondiscrimination Coordinator is hereby designated as the municipal
representative for citizens who feel aggrieved concerning handicapped
nondiscrimination.
(Res. 1984-006, passed 9-5-1984)
§ 33.03POLICY.
   (A)   First step. Employees who feel aggrieved should bring the matter to
the attention of their immediate supervisor. The representative coordinator
shall listen carefully to the complaint, shall attempt to discover all
pertinent facts and shall attempt to adjust the matter. In any case, the
representative coordinator shall respond within five working days.
   (B)   Second step. If the grievance has not been settled, it shall be
presented at the next level within five working days of the representative’s
response to one member of the Handicapped Nondiscrimination Committee. This
person shall assist the aggrieved person in reducing the complaint to writing,
to include:
      (1)   When the problem was discussed with the representative coordinator;
      (2)   What the response was;
      (3)   The reason the aggrieved person disagrees with the results; and
      (4)   What the aggrieved person thinks the proper solution should be.
After the problem is satisfactorily described on paper, the assigned member of
the Handicapped Nondiscrimination Committee shall attempt to settle it within
five working days of receiving it.
   (C)   Third level. If the grievance still remains unsettled, it shall be
presented to the third level to the entire Handicapped Nondiscrimination
Committee for resolution within ten working days of the response in step three.
   (D)   Encompasses. This policy encompasses all employees of the municipal
government and all residents of the township. It does not apply to applicants
for employment.
(Res. 1984-006, passed 9-5-1984)
§ 33.04 FORM.
   The grievance form below shall be the official grievance form to be utilized
in the case of all handicapped nondiscrimination grievances.
 
Grievance Form
Name                     Job Title ___________________
Department                  Supervisor _________________
Instructions:   Part I and II are to be completed by the employee
I.   Grievance Statement (attach additional information or comments if
necessary)
   Date/Time of Occurrence
   Location
   Who was involved
 
 
   What occurred
 
 
 
II.   Relief/Remedy Sought (attach additional information or comments if
necessary)
 
 
 
 
Signature                   Date             
 
(Res. 1984-006, passed 9-5-1984)
CLEAN INDOOR AIR POLICY
§ 33.15 POLICY.
   The Board of Supervisors establishes the following policy to address the
requirement of Act 27 of 2008, being 35 P.S. §§ 637.1 et seq., known as the
Clean Indoor Air Act (CIAA).
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all township owned and regulated
buildings.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all township vehicles if a second
person is present within the vehicle.
   (C)   Township staff shall post and maintain the proper signage on all
township owned and regulated buildings.
   (D)   Employees, visitors or volunteers that smoke outside of a township
regulated building or vehicle shall properly dispose of butts rather than
littering.
   (E)   This policy shall become part of the Employee Handbook and Employment
Policy.
   (F)   Violations of this policy by employees will be handled in accordance
with the provisions in the Employee’s Handbook and Employment Policy.
   (G)   If a visitor, customer or volunteer of the township violates this
policy, they must be asked by any township employee to comply with the state
law and to extinguish the smoking media and to properly dispose of the same.
   (H)   Employees are to be made aware of their responsibilities as public
representatives to inform the general public, volunteers and others of this
state law and the procedure of how to file a complaint regarding a potential
violation of the Clean Indoor Air Act (CIAA), being 35 P.S. §§ 637.1 et seq.,
through the completion of a violation report form in §
33.16 and is part of this policy.
   (I)   Employees, volunteers and customers are also informed that they are
protected from any and all forms of retaliation for reporting a violation of
the law covering current and prospective employees, customers and volunteers.
   (J)   This policy will be made available to anyone who requests it in
writing.
   (K)   All employees shall receive and acknowledge receipt of a copy of this
policy.
(Res. 2008-022, passed 11-6-2008) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.16 FORM.
   (A)   This form is to be used for filing a complaint regarding a potential
violation of the Pennsylvania Clean Indoor Air Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 637.1 et
seq., referred to as the CIAA. The CIAA prohibits an individual from engaging
in smoking in a public place, and requires business owners to prohibit smoking
and post signs where required.
   (B)   This form is to be used to report the following potential violations:
      (1)   The owner, operator or manager of the premises may be penalized for
failing to post proper signage; and
      (2)   The owner, operator or manager of the premises may be penalized for
allowing smoking where it is prohibited.
   (C)   This form can be completed on line and found at the “Pennsylvania
Clean Air Act” web page.
   (D)   Describe what you have observed in as much detail as you can. Once the
information is completely entered, you can either e-mail or by clicking on the
“Submit by E-mail” button or save a copy and print the completed form by
clicking the “Print Form” button for submission to the Department of Health at
the address listed below.
   (E)   After completing the form on-line, the report can be mailed to:
 
Division of Tobacco Prevention and Control
Attention: Clean Indoor Air Act
Pennsylvania Department of Health
Room 1032 Health and Welfare Building
625 Forster Street
Harrisburg, PA 17120-0701
 
   (F)   If you are uncertain about how or where to submit the report, or would
like more information, call the Clean Indoor Air Help Line at 1-717-783-6600.
 
Clean Indoor Air Act (CIAA)/Violation Report Form
Name of Place Where Violation Occurred: _________________________________
Name of Business Owner: ______________________________________________
Address: ___________________________________________________________
City: _________________________      State: _________________________
County: ___________________________      Zip: ____________________
Telephone Number: ______________________________
Does the establishment serve liquor?      [ ] Yes      [ ] No
Smoking Violation Date: _____________________      Time: _____________
Type of Smoking Violation:
[ ]    Failure to post “No Smoking” signs in or near location
[ ]    Patron, Customer or Visitor Smoking on Premises
[ ]    Owner or Operator Smoking on Premises
[ ]    Employee or Worker Smoking on Premises
[ ]    Other
Additional Information or Comments: ______________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
Complaint Information (optional):
Name: _____________________________________________________________
Address: ___________________________________________________________
City: _________________________      County: ________________________
State: ___________________________      Zip: ____________________
Telephone Number: __________________________________________________
[ ]   I certify that the following statements made by me are true.
 
(Res. 2008-022, passed 11-6-2008) Penalty, see §
33.99
PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY
§ 33.25 DESIGNATION OF OPEN RECORDS OFFICER.
   The Board hereby designates the Township Secretary, and in his or her
absence or unavailability, the Township Manager, as the Open Records Officer,
who shall be responsible to:
   (A)   Receive written requests for access to records submitted to the
township;
   (B)   Review and respond to written requests in accordance with law,
township policy and administrative regulations;
   (C)   Direct requests to other appropriate individuals in the township or in
another agency;
   (D)   Track the township’s progress in responding to requests;
   (E)   Issue interim and final responses to submitted requests;
   (F)   Maintain a log of all record requests and their disposition; and
   (G)   Ensure township staff are trained to perform assigned job functions
relative to requests for access to records.
(Res. 2008-025, passed 12-4-2008)
§ 33.26 ACTION UPON REQUEST FOR RECORDS.
   Upon receiving a request for access to a record, the Open Records Officer
shall:
   (A)   Note the date of receipt on the written request;
   (B)   Compute and note on the written request the day on which the five-day
period for response will expire;
   (C)   Maintain an electric or paper copy of the written request, including
all documents submitted with the request, until the request has been fulfilled;
and
   (D)   If the written request is denied, maintain the written request for 30
days or, if an appeal is filed, until a final determination is issued or the
appeal is deemed denied.
(Res. 2008-025, passed 12-4-2008)
§ 33.27 INFORMATION TO BE POSTED.
   The township shall post at its administrative office and on its website, the
following information:
   (A)   Contact information for the Open Records Officer;
   (B)   Contact information for the state’s Office of Open Records or other
applicable appeals officers;
   (C)   The form to be used to file a request; and
   (D)   Township policy, administrative regulations and procedures governing
requests for access to the township’s public records.
(Res. 2008-025, passed 12-4-2008)
§ 33.28 WRITTEN REQUEST TO ACCESS RECORDS.
   A written request for access to a public record shall be submitted on the
required form and addressed to the Open Records Officer and shall include:
   (A)   Identification or description of the requested record, in sufficient
detail;
   (B)   Medium in which the record is requested; and
   (C)   Name and address of the individual to receive the township’s response.
(Res. 2008-025, passed 12-4-2008)
§ 33.29 FEES.
   (A)   The township shall approve a list of reasonable fees relative to
requests for public records and maintain that list of fees and disseminate it
to requesters.
   (B)   In addition, prior to granting access, the township may require
prepayment of estimated fees when they are expected to exceed $100.
(Res. 2008-025, passed 12-4-2008)
§ 33.30 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective January 1, 2009.
(Res. 2008-025, passed 12-4-2008)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The Clean Indoor Air Act (CIAA) provides for the following penalties.
      (1)   The owner, operator or manager of the premises may be penalized for
failing to post proper signage in amounts ranging from $250 for a first offense
to $1,000 for a third offense within 12 months.
      (2)   The owner, operator or manager of the premises may be penalized for
allowing smoking where it is prohibited in amounts ranging from $250 for a
first offense to $1,000 for a third offense within 12 months.
      (3)   A person (patron or employee of the premises) may be penalized for
smoking where it is prohibited in amounts ranging from $250 for a first offense
to $1,000 for a third offense within 12 months.
(Res. 2008-022, passed 11-6-2008)
CHAPTER 34: HAZARDOUS, DISASTER AND EMERGENCY RELIEF
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Establishment of volunteer fire companies and their duties
   
34.02   National Incident Management System
   
34.03   Payment of costs of special equipment
Emergency Services Committee
   
34.15   Recitals
   
34.16   Established
   
34.17   Terms of office
   
34.18   Compensation
   
34.19   Township Emergency Management Coordinator
   
34.20   Role
   
34.21   Meetings
   
34.22   Duties
Emergency Management Plan
   
34.35   Adoption
Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
34.50   Adoption
   
34.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire alarm systems, see §§
92.01 through
92.04
   Fire Regulations, see
Chapter 92
   Key lock box, see §§
92.15 through
92.21
   Open burning, see §§
92.35 through
92.43
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANIES AND THEIR DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Citizen’s Fire Company of Upper Milford Township and Upper
Milford Western District Fire Company are volunteer fire companies which have
been established, organized and currently exist in the township.
      (2)   The Board of Supervisors of the township are desirous of officially
recognizing these fire companies as organizing and/or operating within the
township and establishing various duties to be performed by them.
      (3)   Section 66803(d) of the Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. § 66803
(d) requires that a volunteer fighter company that is organized or operating
within the confines of a township be approved by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby designate the
Citizen’s Fire Company of Upper Milford Township and the Upper Milford Western
District Fire Company as the officially recognized fire companies within the
township.
   (C)   The fire companies and their members are authorized to perform the
following in addition to the normal firefighting, rescuing and emergency
medical duties for worker’s compensation purposes:
      (1)   Participation in drills, practices, training sessions and pre-fire
planning activities authorized by the fire company and supervised by a
qualified instructor, or a fire department officer;
      (2)   Participation in community celebrations, ceremonial observances and
funerals for deceased firefighters or other public figures where such
attendance is deemed appropriated by the fire company;
      (3)   While performing duties necessary to prepare the fire station for
use as a distribution center or polling place for the primary and general
elections, including like or similar services performed at other municipal or
school district buildings;
      (4)   Preparation for and responsible participation in parades, provided
that attendance has prior approval of the fire company;
      (5)   Any public service function performed for the welfare of the
community, including recovery of animals, as long as those activities are
responsibly supervised and are sanctioned by the fire company;
      (6)   Any and all public safety activities undertaken by the fire company
members to render care to the injured, prevent loss of life, provide comfort
and security to victims, and to limit or prevent damage to loss of property as
circumstances may dictate;
      (7)   While rendering assistance to police officers where such aid is
specifically requested or is done without request to protect the public welfare
from imminent danger, including fire/police duties;
      (8)   Participation in fire prevention activities, post-fire
investigations, bomb searches and evacuation drills;
      (9)   While participating in public programs to promote health and
safety, to enlist new members, or solicit community support, or conduct
fundraising activities as long as no compensation is being paid to the members
while engaged in the fundraising activity, with 100% of the proceeds to go to
the fire company, and as long as each activity is sanctioned by the fire
company;
      (10)   While safely and responsibly performing maintenance and remodeling
work on the fire company vehicles, buildings, ground or equipment, including
work done on township vehicles, buildings, grounds or equipment;
      (11)   The fire company may also respond to calls and provide services to
municipalities outside of the township pursuant to mutual aid agreements; and
      (12)   Such other duties that are necessary for the efficient operation
of the volunteer fire companies as may, from time to time, be assigned by the
township and officers of the fire company, and as may be defined within the
constitution and by laws of the respective fire companies.
(Res. 2005-024, passed 10-6-2005)
§ 34.02 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby adopts the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) and recommends all public safety agencies, emergency
responders, hazardous materials users and transporters, hospitals and school
districts situated within the municipality do the same.
(Res. 2006-028, passed 9-7-2006)
§ 34.03 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, business entity or other organization,
who shall cause or contribute to the cause of a hazardous incident within the
confines of the township, shall be liable to the township for the cost of
special equipment, materials and labor used to control and/or extinguish such
incidents.
   (B)   The term HAZARDOUS INCIDENT shall refer to the release of any
substance or material in any form or quantity which poses an unreasonable risk
to safety and health and to property when transported in commerce.
   (C)   The special equipment and materials used in such hazardous incidents
shall be deemed to include, but not be limited to, foam, dry chemical
extinguisher, sand, the labor cost of fire and special police personnel and any
other item deemed necessary by the personnel of the fire company in charge of
controlling and/or extinguishing the hazardous incident.
   (D)   The personnel of the fire company in charge shall promptly forward a
bill of costs for such special equipment and materials to the township, who
shall bill the responsible party or parties. If payment is not received within
30 days from the date of said billing, then the township shall forward the
matter to its Solicitor for collection.
(Ord. 51, passed 2-7-1990) Penalty, see §
34.99
EMERGENCY SERVICES COMMITTEE
§ 34.15 RECITALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to 53 P.S. § 66553 of the Second Class Township Code, the
township is responsible for ensuring that fire and emergency medical services
are provided within the township by the means and to the extent determined by
the township, and that the township shall consult with fire and emergency
services providers to discuss the emergency services needs of the township.
   (B)   To meet those requirements, the Board is desirous of forming an
Emergency Services Committee whose purpose, membership and procedures are set
forth hereafter.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 34.16 ESTABLISHED.
   The township hereby creates the Upper Milford Township Emergency Services
Committee (“ESC”) composed of 11 members represented as follows:
   (A)   The Township Emergency Management Coordinator or his or her Deputy;
   (B)   The Fire Chief of Citizens’ Fire Company or his or her Assistant
Chief, and one other officer designated by the Fire Chief;
   (C)   The Fire Chief of Upper Milford Western District Fire Co. #1 or his or
her Assistant Chief, and one other officer designated by the Fire Chief;
   (D)   The Chief of Macungie Ambulance Corps or another officer designated by
the Chief;
   (E)   The Chief of Emmaus Ambulance Corps or another officer designated by
the Chief;
   (F)   A member of the Public Works Department of the township designated by
the Township Manager; and
   (G)   Three residents of the township appointed by the Board none of whom
shall be a member of either fire company or ambulance corps, or an employee of
the township.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 34.17 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office of the appointed ESC members shall expire on the first
Monday in January following the last year of their term of office; provided,
however, that members shall continue to serve until their successors are
appointed in the event successors are not appointed as of the first Monday in
January following the last year of their term. Appointed members shall serve
terms of three years; however, initially, one appointed member shall serve a
one-year term, another shall serve a two-year term and the other shall serve a
three-year term.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 34.18 COMPENSATION.
   Members shall receive no compensation for their service but may be
reimbursed for the expenses actually and necessarily incurred by them in the
performance of their duties when, as and to the extent that the ESC may have
funds available for such purposes. The adoption of this subchapter does not in
any way commit the township to make an appropriation or payment to or for the
benefit of the ESC.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 34.19 TOWNSHIP EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR.
   The Township Emergency Management Coordinator or his or her Deputy shall act
as the permanent Chair of the ESC, who shall annually during the first meeting
of each year appoint a Vice-Chairperson from one of the three residents
designated by the Board, and also appoint a Secretary from the membership of
the ESC. In the absence of the Township Emergency Management Coordinator and
his or her Deputy or a vacancy in their office, then the resident members shall
appoint a Vice-Chairperson from one of the three resident members designated by
the Board and also appoint a Secretary from the membership of the ESC.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017; Res. 2020-020, passed 2-6-2020)
§ 34.20 ROLE.
   The ESC is to be advisory to and shall coordinate its activities with the
Board, the Township Planning Commission, the Township Manager and Assistant
Manager and the Township Planning Coordinator. The ESC shall not exercise any
powers or perform any duties, which by law are conferred or imposed upon a
commonwealth agency.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 34.21 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the ESC shall be held quarterly in January, April, July and
October of each year at the call of the Chair and at such other times as the
ESC shall determine. All meetings of the ESC shall be publicly advertised and
open to the public. The ESC shall keep records of its meetings and shall make
an annual written report to the township, and provide copies of its minutes to
the township once approved.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017)
§ 34.22 DUTIES.
   The ESC shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To develop bylaws for itself to govern the orderly administration of
its affairs;
   (B)   To identify emergency service problems, issues and trends within and
affecting the township;
   (C)   To make recommendations on the appropriate purchase and replacement
(including types) of emergency services equipment;
   (D)   To advise and recommend to the appropriate township boards and
officials on current and future emergency service needs within the township;
   (E)   To develop, recommend and promote open communication between and among
emergency service providers within the township, as well as between and among
the township and the emergency service providers;
   (F)   To make recommendations to the Board on expenditures for emergency
services within the township;
   (G)   To make recommendations to the Board on training and safety needs and
requirements;
   (H)   To work cooperatively with public, private, commercial, industrial and
individual entities within the township to develop a better understanding of
emergency services, to coordinate activities to minimize the need for emergency
services, and to address training and safety issues; and
   (I)   To undertake such additional tasks as requested by the Board.
(Res. 2017-026, passed 5-18-2017)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN
§ 34.35 ADOPTION.
   The Emergency Management Plan, and its amendments, copies of which are on
file in the township offices, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Res. 1994-003, passed 3-9-1994; Res. 1996-07, passed 3-21-1996; Res. 1998-003,
passed 2-19-1998; Res. 2000-004, passed 2-17-2000; 2002-003, passed 2-7-2002;
Res. 2003-005, passed 6-5-2003; Res. 2014-024, passed 10-2-2014)
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
§ 34.50 ADOPTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Lehigh Valley Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as
the official hazard mitigation plan of the township; and
      (2)   The respective officials and agencies identified in the
implementation strategy of the plan are hereby directed to implement the
recommended activities assigned to them.
   (B)   The hazard mitigation plan and the Upper Milford Annex are available
on the county website at https://www.lehighcounty.org/Departments/Emergency-
Management-9-1-1/Hazard-_Mitigation-Plan.
(Res. 2006-031, passed 10-5-2006; Res. 2025-020, passed 1-16-2025)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any party who violates §
34.03(D) shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed
$1,000, together with the costs of prosecution, and in default of payment
thereof, shall be committed to the county prison for a term not to exceed 30
days. Each day’s continuance of this offense shall constitute a new offense.
(Ord. 51, passed 2-7-1990)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
Earned Income Tax
   
35.001   Definitions
   
35.002   Imposition of tax
   
35.003   Declaration and payment of tax; application
   
35.004   Withholding and remittance
   
35.005   Powers and duties of Tax Collector
   
35.006   Compensation of Income Tax Officer
   
35.007   Applicability
   
35.008   Imposition of additional earned income tax
Local Services Tax
   
35.020   Title
   
35.021   Authority
   
35.022   Purpose
   
35.023   Definitions
   
35.024   Levy of tax
   
35.025   Exemption and refunds
   
35.026   Duty of employers to collect
   
35.027   Returns
   
35.028   Dates for determining tax liability and payment
   
35.029   Self-employed individuals
   
35.030   Individuals engaged in more than one occupation or employed in more
than one political subdivision
   
35.031   Nonresidents subject to tax
   
35.032   Administration of tax
   
35.033   Suits for collection
   
35.034   Interpretation
Realty Transfer Tax
   
35.045   Imposition of tax
   
35.046   Administration
   
35.047   Interest
Real Property Tax
   
35.080   Tax rate
   
35.081   Millage freeze
 
   
35.999   Penalty
EARNED INCOME TAX
§ 35.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTICLE XIII TAX OFFICER. The Tax Officer authorized by the township to
collect income taxes levied prior to January 1, 2012.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession or any other undertaking of an
unincorporated nature conducted for profit or ordinarily-conducted for profit
whether by a person, partnership, association or any other entity.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. A sole proprietorship, corporation, joint-stock association
or company, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company,
association, business trust, syndicate or other commercial or professional
activity organized under the laws of this commonwealth or any other
jurisdiction.
   CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT or PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT. A certified public
accountant, public accountant or firm, as provided for in the Act of May 26,
1947 (P.L. 318, No. 140), known as the CPA Law: 63 P.S. §§ 9.1 et seq.
   CLAIM. A written demand for payment made by a Tax Officer or tax collection
district for income taxes collected by another Tax Officer or tax collection
district.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint-stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any other state,
territory, foreign country or dependency. The term shall include an entity
which is classified as a corporation for federal income tax purposes.
   CURRENT YEAR. The calendar year for which the tax is levied.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Community and Economic Development of the
commonwealth.
   DOMICILE. The place where a person lives and has a permanent home and to
which the person has the intention of returning whenever absent. Actual
residence is not necessarily DOMICILE, for DOMICILE is the fixed place of abode
which, in the intention of the taxpayer, is permanent rather than transitory.
DOMICILE is the voluntarily fixed place of habitation of a person, not for a
mere special or limited purpose, but with the present intention of making a
permanent home, until some event occurs to induce the person to adopt some
other permanent home. In the case of a business, DOMICILE is that place
considered as the center of business affairs and the place where its functions
are discharged.
   EARNED INCOME. The compensation as required to be reported to or as
determined by the Department of Revenue under § 303 of the Act of March 4, 1971
(P.L. 6, No. 2), known as the Tax Reform Code of 1971: 72 P.S. § 7303, and
rules and regulations promulgated under that section. Employee business
expenses as reported to or determined by the Department of Revenue under
Article III of the Tax Reform Code of 1971: 72 P.S. §§ 7301 et seq. shall
constitute allowable deductions in determining earned income. The term does not
include offsets for business losses. The amount of any housing allowance
provided to a member of the clergy shall not be taxable as EARNED INCOME.
   EARNED INCOME AND NET PROFITS TAX. The tax levied by the township on earned
income and net profits.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business entity or other entity, employing one or more
persons for a salary, wage, commission or other compensation. The term includes
the commonwealth, a political subdivision and an instrumentality or public
authority of either. For purposes of penalties under this subchapter, the term
includes a corporate officer.
   INCOME TAX. Except as set forth in § 511(b) of the Local Tax Enabling Act,
P.L. 1257, Act 511 of 1965, as amended (hereinafter the LTEA), 53 P.S. §
6924.511(b), an earned income and net profits tax, personal income tax or other
tax that is assessed on the income of a taxpayer levied by the township under
the authority of this act or any other act.
   JOINT TAX COLLECTION COMMITTEE. An entity formed by two or more tax
collection committees for the purpose of income tax collection in more than one
tax collection district.
   LTEA. The Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act, P.L. 1257, Act 511 of 1965:
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq., as amended.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, other than a
corporation, as required to be reported to or as determined by the Department
of Revenue under § 303 of the Act of March 4, 1971 (P.L. 6, No. 2), 72 P.S. §
7303, known as the Tax Reform Code of 1971, and rules and regulations
promulgated under that section. The term does not include income under any of
the following divisions:
      (1)   Income which:
         (a)   Is not paid for services provided; and
         (b)   Is in the nature of earnings from an investment.
      (2)   Income which represents:
         (a)   Any gain on the sale of farm machinery;
         (b)   Any gain on the sale of livestock held 12 months or more for
draft, breeding or dairy purposes; or
         (b)   Any gain on the sale of other capital assets of a farm.
   NONRESIDENT. A person or business domiciled outside the township levying the
tax.
   NONRESIDENT TAX. An income tax levied by the township on nonresidents.
   OFFICIAL REGISTER. The part of the tax register that includes withholding
tax rates as provided in § 511(a)(3) of the LTEA, 53 P.S. § 6924.511(a)(3).
   PERSON. A natural person.
   PRECEDING YEAR. The calendar year before the current year.
   PRIVATE AGENCY. A business entity or person appointed as a Tax Officer by a
tax collection committee.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Any and all public bodies, authorities, agencies,
instrumentalities, political subdivisions, intermediate units, councils,
boards, commissions or similar governmental entities.
   RESIDENT. A person or business domiciled in the township levying the tax.
   RESIDENT TAX. An income tax levied by the township.
   RESIDENT TAX OFFICER. The Tax Officer administering and collecting income
taxes for the tax collection district in which a taxpayer is domiciled.
   SUCCEEDING YEAR. The calendar year following the current year.
   TAX BUREAU. A public nonprofit entity established for the administration and
collection of taxes.
   TAX COLLECTION COMMITTEE. The committee established to govern the Lehigh Tax
Collection District for the purpose of income tax collection. The term shall
include a joint tax collection committee.
   TAX COLLECTION DISTRICT. The Lehigh Tax Collection District established
under § 504 of the LTEA: 72 P.S. §§ 6924.504.
   TAX OFFICER. A political subdivision, public employee, tax bureau, county,
except a county of the first class, or private agency which administers and
collects income taxes for one or more tax collection districts. Unless
otherwise specifically provided, for purposes of the obligations of an
employer, the term shall mean the TAX OFFICER for the tax collection district
within which the employer is located, or, if an employer maintains workplaces
in more than one district, the TAX OFFICER for each such district with respect
to employees principally employed therein.
   TAX RECORDS. Tax returns, supporting schedules, correspondence with auditors
or taxpayers, account books and other documents, including electronic records,
obtained or created by the Tax Officer to administer or collect a tax under
this subchapter. The term includes documents required by § 509(e) of the LTEA:
72 P.S. §§ 6924.509(e). The term ELECTRONIC RECORDS includes data and
information inscribed on a tangible medium or stored in an electronic or other
medium and which is retrievable in perceivable form.
   TAX REGISTER. A database of all county, municipal and school tax rates
available on the Internet as provided in § 511(a)(1) of the LTEA, 53 P.S. §
6924.511(a)(1).
   TAXABLE INCOME. Includes:
      (1)   In the case of an earned income and net profits tax, earned income
and net profits; and
      (2)   In the case of a personal income tax, income enumerated in § 303 of
the Act of March 4, 1971 (P.L. 6, No. 2), known as the Tax Reform Code of 1971,
72 P.S. § 7303, as reported to and determined by the Department of Revenue,
subject to correction for fraud, evasion or error, as finally determined by the
commonwealth.
   TAXPAYER. A person or business required under this subchapter to file a
return of an income tax or to pay an income tax.
   WITHHOLDING TAX. An income tax levied by a political subdivision under the
authority of this subchapter or any other ordinance, or any other tax levied by
a municipality or school district for which employer withholding may be
required under this subchapter.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 35.002 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied under this subchapter shall be applicable to earned
income received and to net profits earned in the period beginning January 1, of
the current year, and ending December 31, of the current year or for taxpayer
fiscal years beginning in the current year, except that taxes imposed for the
first time shall become effective from the date specified in the ordinance or
resolution, and the tax shall continue in force on a calendar year or taxpayer
fiscal year basis, without annual reenactment, unless the rate of the tax is
subsequently changed. Changes in rate shall become effective on the date
specified in the subchapter.
   (B)   A tax for general revenue purposes of 1% is hereby imposed on the
following:
      (1)   Earned income, as defined by this subchapter, received by residents
of the township, on or after January 1, 2012;
      (2)   Earned income, as defined by this subchapter, received by
nonresidents of the township for work done or services performed or rendered in
the township on or after January 1, 2012;
      (3)   Net profits, as defined by this subchapter, earned on or after
January 1, 2012, of businesses, professions and other activities conducted by
residents in the township; and
      (4)   Net profits, as defined by this subchapter, earned on or after
January 1, 2012, of businesses, professions, and other activities conducted by
nonresidents in the township.
   (C)   The tax levied under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above shall relate to
and be imposed upon salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation paid by
an employer or on its behalf to any person who is employed by or renders
services to him or her. The tax levied under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) above
shall relate to and be imposed on the net profits of any business, profession
or enterprise carried on by any person as owner or as proprietor, either
individually or in association with some other person or persons.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 35.003 DECLARATION AND PAYMENT OF TAX; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Generally. Income taxes shall be applicable to taxable income earned
or received, based on the method of accounting used by the taxpayer in the
period beginning January 1 of the current year and ending December 31 of the
current year, except that taxes imposed for the first time and changes to
existing tax rates shall become effective on January 1 or July 1, as specified
in the subchapter, and the tax shall continue in force on a calendar year or
taxpayer fiscal year basis, without annual reenactment, unless the rate of the
tax is subsequently changed.
   (B)   Fiscal year; calendar year. For a taxpayer whose fiscal year is not a
calendar year, the Tax Officer shall establish deadlines for filing, reporting
and payment of taxes which provide time periods equivalent to those provided
for a calendar year taxpayer.
   (C)   Partial domicile. The taxable income subject to tax of a taxpayer who
is domiciled in the township for only a portion of the tax year shall be an
amount equal to the taxpayer’s taxable income multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of calendar months during the tax year that
the individual is domiciled in the township and the denominator of which is 12.
A taxpayer shall include in the numerator any calendar month during which the
taxpayer is domiciled for more than half the calendar month. A day that a
taxpayer’s domicile changes shall be included as a day the individual is in the
new domicile and not the old domicile. If the number of days in the calendar
month in which the individual lived in the old and new domiciles are equal, the
calendar month shall be included in calculating the number of months in the new
domicile.
   (D)   Declaration and payment. Except as provided in division (B) above,
taxpayers shall declare and pay income taxes as follows.
      (1)   Every taxpayer shall, on or before April 15 of the succeeding year,
make and file with the resident Tax Officer, a final return showing the amount
of taxable income received during the period beginning January 1 of the current
year and ending December 31 of the current year, the total amount of tax due on
the taxable income, the amount of tax paid, the amount of tax that has been
withheld under § 512 of the LTEA, 53 P.S. § 6924.512, and the balance of tax
due. All amounts reported shall be rounded to the nearest whole dollar. At the
time of filing the final return, the taxpayer shall pay the resident Tax
Officer the balance of the tax due or shall make demand for refund or credit in
the case of overpayment.
      (2)   Every taxpayer making net profits shall, by April 15 of the current
year, make and file with the resident Tax Officer a declaration of the
taxpayer’s estimated net profits during the period beginning January 1 and
ending December 31 of the current year, and shall pay to the resident Tax
Officer in four equal quarterly installments the tax due on the estimated net
profits. The first installment shall be paid at the time of filing the
declaration, and the other installments shall be paid on or before June 15 of
the current year, September 15 of the current year and January 15 of the
succeeding year, respectively.
      (3)   Any taxpayer who first anticipates any net profit after April 15 of
the current year shall make and file the declaration required on or before June
15 of the current year, September 15 of the current year or December 31 of the
current year, whichever date next follows the date on which the taxpayer first
anticipates such net profit, and shall pay to the resident Tax Officer in equal
installments the tax due on or before the quarterly payment dates that remain
after the filing of the declaration.
      (4)   Every taxpayer shall, on or before April 15 of the succeeding year,
make and file with the resident Tax Officer a final return showing the amount
of net profits earned or received based on the method of accounting used by the
taxpayer during the period beginning January 1 of the current year, and ending
December 31 of the current year, the total amount of tax due on the net profits
and the total amount of tax paid. At the time of filing the final return, the
taxpayer shall pay to the resident Tax Officer the balance of tax due or shall
make demand for refund or credit in the case of overpayment. Any taxpayer may,
in lieu of paying the fourth quarterly installment of the estimated tax, elect
to make and file with the resident Tax Officer on or before January 31 of the
succeeding year, the final return.
      (5)   The Department, in consultation with the Department of Revenue,
shall provide by regulation for the filing of adjusted declarations of
estimated net profits and for the payments of the estimated tax in cases where
a taxpayer who has filed the declaration required under this division (D)
anticipates additional net profits not previously declared or has overestimated
anticipated net profits.
      (6)   Every taxpayer who discontinues business prior to December 31 of
the current year, shall, within 30 days after the discontinuance of business,
file a final return as required under this division (D) and pay the tax due.
      (7)   Every taxpayer who receives any other taxable income not subject to
withholding under § 512(a)(3) of the LTEA: 73 P.S. §§ 6924.512(a)(3), shall
make and file with the resident Tax Officer a quarterly return on or before
April 15 of the current year, June 15 of the current year, September 15 of the
current year, and January 15 of the succeeding year, setting forth the
aggregate amount of taxable income not subject to withholding by the taxpayer
during the three month periods ending March 31 of the current year, June 30 of
the current year, September 30 of the current year, and December 31 of the
current year, respectively, and subject to income tax, together with such other
information as the Department may require. Every taxpayer filing a return
shall, at the time of filing the return, pay to the resident Tax Officer the
amount of income tax due. In accordance with criteria established by the
Department, the Tax Officer may waive the quarterly return and payment of the
income tax and permit a taxpayer to file the receipt of taxable income on the
taxpayer’s annual return and pay the income tax due on or before April 15 of
the succeeding year.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.004 WITHHOLDING AND REMITTANCE.
   For taxable years commencing on and after January 1, 2012, or earlier
taxable years if specified by a tax collection district, income taxes shall be
withheld, remitted and reported as follows.
   (A)   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse
or other place of business within the tax collection district which employs one
or more persons, other than domestic servants, for a salary, wage, commission
or other compensation, who has not previously registered, shall, within 15 days
after becoming an employer, register with the Tax Officer the name and address
of the employer and such other information as the officer may require.
   (B)   An employer shall require each new employee to complete a certificate
of residency form, which shall be an addendum to the federal employee’s
withholding allowance certificate (Form W-4). An employer shall also require
any employee who changes his or her address or domicile to complete a
certificate of residency form. The certificate of residency form shall provide
information to help identify the political subdivision where an employee lives
and works. Forms of certificate of residency may be obtained by an employer
from the Department upon request by an employer.
   (C)   Every employer having an office, factory, workshop, branch, warehouse
or other place of business within a tax collection district that employs one or
more persons, other than domestic servants, for a salary, wage, commission or
other compensation, shall, at the time of payment, deduct from the compensation
due each employee employed at such place of business the greater of the
employee’s resident tax or the employee’s nonresident tax as released in the
official register under § 511 of the LTEA, 53 P.S. § 6924.511.
   (D)   Except as set forth in division (E) below, within 30 days following
the end of each calendar quarter, every employer shall file a quarterly return
and pay the amount of income taxes deducted during the preceding calendar
quarter to the Tax Officer for the place of employment of each employee. The
form shall show the name, address and Social Security number of each employee,
the compensation of the employee during the preceding three-month period, the
income tax deducted from the employee, the political subdivision imposing the
income tax upon the employee, the total compensation of all employees during
the preceding calendar quarter, the total income tax deducted from the
employees and paid with the return and any other information prescribed by the
Department.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (D) above, the provisions of this division
(E) shall apply if an employer has more than one place of employment in more
than one tax collection district. Within 30 days following the last day of each
month, the employer may file the return required by division (D) above and pay
the total amount of income taxes deducted from employees in all work locations
during the preceding month to the Tax Officer for either the tax collection
district in which the employer’s payroll operations are located or as
determined by the Department. The return and income taxes deducted shall be
filed and paid electronically. The employer must file a notice of intention to
file combined returns and make combined payments with the Tax Officer for each
place of employment at least one month before filing its first combined return
or making its first combined payment. This division (E) shall not be construed
to change the location of an employee’s place of employment for purposes of
nonresident tax liability.
   (F)   Any employer who, for two of the preceding four quarterly periods, has
failed to deduct the proper income tax, or any part of the income tax, or has
failed to pay over the proper amount of income tax as required by division (C)
above to the tax collection district, may be required by the Tax Officer to
file returns and pay the income tax monthly. In such cases, payments of income
tax shall be made to the Tax Officer on or before the last day of the month
succeeding the month for which the income tax was withheld.
   (G)   On or before February 28 of the succeeding year, every employer shall
file with the Tax Officer where income taxes have been deducted and remitted
pursuant to division (C) above:
      (1)   An annual return showing, for the period beginning January 1 of the
current year and ending December 31 of the current year, the total amount of
compensation paid, the total amount of income tax deducted, the total amount of
income tax paid to the Tax Officer and any other information prescribed by the
Department;
      (2)   An individual withholding statement, which may be integrated with
the federal wage and tax statement (Form W-2), for each employee employed
during all or any part of the period beginning January 1 of the current year
and ending December 31 of the current year, setting forth the address and
Social Security number, the amount of compensation paid to the employee during
the period, the amount of income tax deducted, the amount of income tax paid to
the Tax Officer, the numerical code prescribed by the Department representing
the tax collection district where the payments required by divisions (D) and
(E) above were remitted and any other information required by the Department.
Every employer shall furnish one copy of the individual withholding statement
to the employee for whom it is filed.
   (H)   Any employer who discontinues business prior to December 31 of the
current year shall, within 30 days after the discontinuance of business, file
returns and withholding statements required under this section and pay the
income tax due.
   (I)   Except as otherwise provided in § 511 of the LTEA, 53 P.S. § 6924.511,
an employer who willfully or negligently fails or omits to make the deductions
required by this division (I) shall be liable for payment of income taxes which
the employer was required to withhold to the extent that the income taxes have
not been recovered from the employee. The failure or omission of any employer
to make the deductions required by this section shall not relieve any employee
from the payment of the income tax or from complying with the requirements for
filing of declaration and returns.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 35.005 POWERS AND DUTIES OF TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Tax collection. In addition to any other power and duty conferred upon
a Tax Officer in this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the Tax Officer:
      (1)   To collect, reconcile, administer and enforce income taxes imposed
on residents and nonresidents in the township included in the tax collection
district;
      (2)   To receive and distribute income taxes and to enforce withholding
by employers located in the tax collection district;
      (3)   To receive income taxes distributed by Tax Officers for other tax
collection districts;
      (4)   To distribute income taxes to the township as required by § 513 of
the LTEA, 53 P.S. § 6924.513;
      (5)   To comply with all regulations adopted by the township under this
subchapter and all resolutions, policies and procedures adopted by the Tax
Collection Committee;
      (6)   (a)   To invest all income taxes in the custody of the Tax Officer
in authorized investments, subject to the approval of the Tax Collection
Committee. The Tax Officer shall observe the standard of care that would be
observed by a prudent person dealing with property of another.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (A)(6), the term AUTHORIZED
INVESTMENT shall include all of the following:
            1.   Short-term obligations of the United States government or its
agencies or instrumentalities which are backed by the full faith and credit of
the United States or are rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized statistical rating organization;
            2.   Deposits in savings accounts, time deposits, share accounts or
certificates of deposit of institutions, insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, or
their successor agencies, to the extent that the accounts are insured and, for
the amount above the insured maximum, that collateral, free from other liens,
for the amount is pledged by the depository institution;
            3.   Deposits in investment pools established by the State
Treasurer or established by local governments pursuant to 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 23
Subch. A (relating to intergovernmental cooperation) and related statutes,
provided that the investment pools are rated in the highest category by a
nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
            4.   Repurchase agreements which are fully collateralized by
obligations of the United States government or its agencies or
instrumentalities, which are free from other liens and backed by the full faith
and credit of the United States or are rated in the highest category by a
nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
      (7)   To distribute income generated from investments authorized under
division (A)(6) above as determined by the Tax Collection Committee.
   (B)   Monthly reports. The Tax Officer shall, within 20 days after the end
of each month, provide a written report, on forms prescribed by the Department,
to the Secretary of the Tax Collection Committee and to the Secretary of the
township for which taxes were collected during the previous month. The report
shall include a breakdown of all income taxes, income generated from
investments under division (A)(6) above, penalties, costs and other money
received, collected, expended and distributed for each political subdivision
served by the Tax Officer and of all money distributed to Tax Officers for
other tax collection districts.
   (C)   Overpayments. A Tax Officer shall refund, under 53 Pa.C.S. § 8425
(relating to refunds of overpayments) and 53 Pa.C.S. § 8426 (relating to
interest on overpayment), on petition of and proof by the taxpayer, income
taxes paid in excess of income taxes rightfully due.
   (D)   Bonds. Prior to initiating any official duties, each Tax Officer shall
give and acknowledge a bond to the appointing Tax Collection Committee as
follows.
      (1)   The Tax Collection Committee shall fix the amount of the bond in an
amount equal to the maximum amount of taxes that may be in the possession of
the Tax Officer at any given time or an amount sufficient, in combination with
fiscal controls, insurance and other risk management and loss prevention
measures used by the tax collection district, to secure the financial
responsibility of the Tax Officer in accordance with guidelines adopted by the
Department. The amount of the bond shall be revised annually by the Tax
Collection Committee based upon the annual examination required under § 505(h)
of the LTEA, 53 P.S. § 6924.505(h).
      (2)   Each bond shall be joint and several, with one or more corporate
sureties, which shall be surety companies authorized to do business in this
commonwealth and licensed by the Insurance Department.
      (3)   Each bond shall be conditioned upon the completion of all of the
following by the Tax Officer’s employees and appointees:
         (a)   The faithful execution of all duties required of the Tax
Officer;
         (b)   The just and faithful accounting or payment over of all monies
and balances paid to, received or held by the Tax Officer by virtue of the
office in accordance with law; and
         (c)   The delivery of all tax records or other official items held in
right as the Tax Officer to the Tax Officer’s successor in office.
      (4)   Each bond shall be taken in the name of the tax collection district
and shall be for the use of the tax collection district appointing the Tax
Officer, and for the use of any other political subdivision or tax collection
district for which income taxes shall be collected or distributed in case of a
breach of any conditions of the bond by the acts or neglect of the principal on
the bond.
      (5)   The Tax Collection Committee or any political subdivision may sue
upon the bond for the payment or distribution of income taxes.
      (6)   Each bond shall contain the name of the surety company bound on the
bond.
      (7)   The Tax Collection Committee may, upon cause shown and due notice
to the Tax Officer and the Tax Officer’s sureties, require or allow the
substitution or the addition of a surety company acceptable to the Tax
Collection Committee for the purpose of making the bond sufficient in amount,
without releasing the sureties first approved from any accrued liability or
previous action on the bond.
      (8)   The Tax Collection Committee shall designate the custodian of the
bond.
      (9)   The Tax Officer shall file copies of all bonds in effect with the
township.
      (10)   A copy of all bonds in effect shall be made available upon request
and at no cost to the Department or to a tax collection district or political
subdivision seeking payment or distribution of income taxes authorized by this
subchapter.
   (E)   Records. It shall be the duty of the Tax Officer to keep a record
showing the amount of income taxes received from each taxpayer or other Tax
Officer, the date of receipt, the amount and date of all other monies received
or distributed and any other information required by the Department. All tax
records shall be the property of the township and the tax collection district
in which the taxes were collected. The tax collection district and Tax Officer
shall retain all tax records as directed by the Tax Collection Committee and,
when applicable, in accordance with retention and disposition schedules
established by the Local Government Records Committee of the Pennsylvania
Historical and Museum Commission under 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 13 Subch. F (relating to
records). Tax records under this division (E) may be retained electronically as
permitted by law.
   (F)   Employer and taxpayer audits.
      (1)   In order to verify the accuracy of any income tax declaration or
return or, if no declaration or return was filed, to ascertain the income tax
due, the Tax Officer and the Tax Officer’s designated employees may examine or
audit the records pertaining to income taxes due of any of the following:
         (a)   An employer;
         (b)   A taxpayer; and/or
         (c)   A person whom the Tax Officer reasonably believes to be an
employer or taxpayer.
      (2)   The examination or audit conducted by the Tax Officer and the Tax
Officer’s designated employees shall conform to the requirements set forth in
the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights, 53 Pa.C.S. §§ 8421 et seq.
      (3)   Every employer and taxpayer or other person whom the Tax Officer
reasonably believes to be an employer or taxpayer shall provide to the Tax
Officer and the Tax Officer’s designated employees the means, facilities and
opportunity for the examination and investigation authorized under division (F)
(1) above.
      (4)   For purposes of this division (F), the term RECORDS shall include
any books, papers and relevant federal or state tax returns and accompanying
schedules, or supporting documentation for any income taxable under this
subchapter.
   (G)   Exchange of information.
      (1)   The Tax Officer shall ensure that the tax collection district
enters into an agreement with the Department of Revenue for the exchange of
information as necessary for the collection of income taxes.
      (2)   The Department of Revenue may enter into agreements with each tax
collection district and shall establish procedures under which tax collection,
filing and other taxpayer and locality information in its custody will be made
available to Tax Officers for purposes of collection, reconciliation and
enforcement no later than one year after the deadline for filing returns for
the tax year in question.
   (H)   Actions for collection of income taxes. The Tax Officer may file an
action in the name of the township for the recovery of income taxes due to the
township and unpaid. Nothing in this division (H) shall affect the authority of
the township to file an action in its own name for collection of income taxes
under this subchapter. This division (H) shall not be construed to limit a Tax
Officer, a tax collection district or the township from recovering delinquent
income taxes by any other means provided by this subchapter. Actions for
collection of income taxes shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   Except as set forth in division (H)(2) or (H)(4) below, an action
brought to recover income taxes must be commenced within three years of the
later of the date:
         (a)   The income taxes are due;
         (b)   The declaration or return has been filed; or
         (c)   Of a redetermination of compensation or net profits by the
Department of Revenue.
      (2)   If there is substantial understatement of income tax liability of
25% or more and there is no fraud, an action must be commenced within six
years.
      (3)   Except as set forth in division (H)(4)(b), (H)(4)(c) or (H)(4)(d)
below, an action by a Tax Officer for recovery of an erroneous refund must be
commenced as follows:
         (a)   Except as set forth in division (H)(4)(b) below, within two
years after making the refund; and
         (b)   If it appears that any part of the refund was induced by fraud
or misrepresentation of material fact, within five years after making the
refund.
      (4)   There is no limitation of action if any of the following apply:
         (a)   A taxpayer fails to file a declaration or return required under
this subchapter;
         (b)   An examination of a declaration or return or of other evidence
in the possession of the Tax Officer relating to the declaration or return
reveals a fraudulent evasion of income taxes;
         (c)   An employer has deducted income taxes under § 512 of the LTEA,
53 P.S. § 6924.512, and has failed to pay the amount deducted by the Tax
Officer; and
         (d)   An employer has intentionally failed to make deductions required
by this subchapter.
   (I)   Costs. The Tax Officer shall be entitled to impose and collect the
reasonable costs incurred to provide notices of delinquency or to implement
similar procedures utilized to collect delinquent taxes from a taxpayer as
approved by the Tax Collection Committee. Reasonable costs collected may be
retained by the Tax Officer. An itemized accounting of all costs collected
shall be remitted to the Tax Collection Committee on an annual basis.
   (J)   Appeals and Tax Officer actions. A determination of the Tax Officer
relating to the assessment, collection, refund, withholding, remittance or
distribution of income taxes may be appealed to the appeals board established
by the Tax Collection Committee by a taxpayer, employer, political subdivision
or another tax collection district pursuant to the provisions of 53 P.S. §
6924.505(j). Pursuant to § 505(k) of Act 32, 53 P.S. § 6924.505(k), any dispute
among the affected parties involving a 10% or greater deviation from taxes
received in the previous tax year shall be subject to mandatory mediation in
accordance with regulations and guidelines adopted by the Department. A dispute
involving less than a 10% threshold may be the subject of voluntary mediation
in accordance with regulations and guidelines adopted by the Department.
   (K)   Confidentiality.
      (1)   General rule. Any information gained by a Tax Officer or any
employee or agent of a Tax Officer or of the Tax Collection Committee as a
result of any declarations, returns, investigations, hearings or verifications
shall be confidential tax information.
      (2)   Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful, except for official
purposes or as provided by law, for the commonwealth, the township, Tax
Collection Committee member, Tax Officer or employee or agent of a Tax Officer
or Tax Collection Committee to do any of the following:
         (a)   Divulge or make known confidential tax information;
         (b)   Permit confidential tax information or a book containing an
abstract or particulars of the abstract to be seen or examined by any person;
and/or
         (c)   Print, publish or otherwise make known any confidential tax
information.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.006 COMPENSATION OF INCOME TAX OFFICER.
   The Tax Officer shall receive such compensation for his or her services and
expenses as determined by the Tax Collection Committee. At the discretion of
the Tax Collection Committee, the Tax Officer may be permitted to withhold the
amount of the Tax Officer’s compensation from income taxes collected if the
monthly reports required by § 509(b) of the LTEA: 53 P.S. § 6924.509(b),
submitted by the Tax Officer include an accounting for all compensation
withheld.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 35.007 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall not apply:
      (1)   To any person as to whom it is beyond the legal power of the
township to impose the tax herein provided under the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution and laws of the commonwealth; or
      (2)   To institutions or organizations operated for public, religious,
educational, or charitable purposes, to institutions or organizations not
organized or operated for private profit, or to trusts and foundations
established for any of the said purposes.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to exempt any person who is an
employer from the duty of collecting the tax source from his or her employees
and paying the amount collected to the Tax Officer under the provisions of §
35.004.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall take effect on January 1, 2012
and shall apply to earned income received or earned and net profits earned or
made by a taxpayer during calendar year 2012 and each year thereafter without
annual reenactment unless the rate of tax is subsequently changed. Changes in
the rate of tax shall become effective on the date specified in the subchapter.
   (D)   Nothing contained herein shall be considered to repeal by implication
or otherwise the provisions of any earned income tax ordinance(s) previously
enacted or adopted on as it may apply to earned income and net profits of
taxpayers prior to the effective date of this subchapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect with respect to such earned income and net profits.
   (E)   This subchapter is enacted under authority of the LTEA, and all
provisions thereof that relate to a tax on earned income or net profits are
incorporated into this subchapter. Any future amendments to the LTEA that are
required to be applied to a tax on earned income or net profits will
automatically become part of this subchapter upon the effective date of such
amendment, without the need for formal amendment of this subchapter, to the
maximum extent allowed by 1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 35.008 IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL EARNED INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The township does hereby impose an additional earned income tax at the
rate of 0.138% on an annual basis to create a fund to be used for the purpose
of acquisition, protection, conservation or preservation of undeveloped open
spaces or areas; forests and farmlands; natural and scenic resources; and
recreational or historical lands; and payment of the attendant costs associated
with such actions all more particularly described in Ord. 147, known as “The
Upper Milford Township Open Space Referendum Ordinance of 2016”.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in addition to, and not in replacement
or substitution of any existing tax, and is imposed upon the same persons,
classification of persons and class of income as the earned income tax
previously adopted by the township, and is to be paid and collected in the same
manner and contemporaneously therewith, and is subject to the same methods of
enforcement as previously adopted by the township.
   (C)   Because this tax is adopted in accordance with the provisions of 53
P.S. § 6913, being a tax upon earned income, all of the provisions set forth
therein, and any amendments or successor legislation related thereto are
incorporated as if fully set forth therein.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-29-2016)
LOCAL SERVICES TAX
§ 35.020 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Upper Milford Township
Local Services Tax Ordinance.”
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.021 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted under the authority of the Local Tax Enabling Act,
as amended by Act No. 7 of 2007.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.022 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide revenue for police, fire and
emergency services; road construction and maintenance; the reduction of
property taxes and for such other purposes as may be specified for such tax
from time to time by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.023 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The governing body of Upper Milford Township.
   COLLECTOR. The person or firm, from time to time, designated by the Board of
Supervisors to collect and administer the provision of this chapter and collect
the tax levied by this chapter.
   EARNED INCOME. “Compensation” as defined in § 13 (relating to earned income
taxes) of the Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257,
§ 13, as amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, agency or other entity employing one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission, fee or other compensation basis, including a self-employed person.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any person engaged in any occupation, trade or profession within
the corporate limits of Upper Milford Township.
   NET PROFITS. The net income from the operation of a business, profession, or
other activity, as defined in § 13 (relating to earned income taxes) of the
Local Tax Enabling Act, the Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1251, § 13, as
amended, 53 P.S. § 6913, as amended.
   OCCUPATION. Any trade, profession, business or undertaking of any type, kind
or character including services, domestic or other, carried on or performed
within the corporate limits of Upper Milford Township for which compensation is
charged and/or received, whether by salary, wages, commissions, fees or net
profits for services rendered.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.024 LEVY OF TAX.
   For specific revenue purposes, an annual tax is hereby levied and assessed,
commencing January 1, 2019; upon the privilege of engaging in an occupation
with a primary place of employment within Upper Milford Township (“township”)
during the tax year. Each natural person who exercises such privilege for any
length of time during the tax year shall pay the tax for that year in the
amount of $52, assessed on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. This tax may be used solely for the following purposes as the
same may be allocated by the Board of Supervisors (“Board”) from time to time:
(1) emergency services, which shall include emergency medical services, police
services and/or fire services; (2) road construction and/or maintenance; (3)
reduction of property taxes; or (4) property tax relief through implementation
of a homestead and farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85,
Subch. F (relating to homestead property exclusion). The Board shall use no
less than 25% of the funds derived from the tax for emergency services. This
tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature heretofore levied
by the Township. The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each
calendar year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions with which
a person maybe employed.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.025 EXEMPTION AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any person whose total earned income and net profits from
all sources within the township is less than $12,000 for any calendar year in
which the tax is levied is exempt from the payment of the tax for that calendar
year. In addition, the following persons are exempt from payment of the tax:
      (1)   Any person who has served in any war or armed conflict in which the
United States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under
honorable circumstances from active service if, as a result of military
service, the person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or
has a service-connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’
Administration or its successor to be a total 100% disability.
      (2)   Any person who serves as a member of a reserve component of the
armed forces and is called to active duty at any time during the taxable year.
For the purposes of this division (A)(2), RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE ARMED FORCES
shall mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United
States Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States
Air Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air
National Guard.
   (B)   Procedure to claim exemption.
      (1)   A person seeking to claim an exemption from the local services tax
may annually file an exemption certificate with the township and with the
person’s employer affirming that the person reasonably expects to receive
earned income and net profits from all sources within the township of less than
$12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption certificate is filed. In
the event the township utilizes a tax collection officer, it shall provide a
copy of the exemption certificate to that officer. The exemption certificate
shall have attached to it a copy of all the employee’s last pay stubs or W-
2 forms from employment within the township for the year prior to the fiscal
year for which the employee is requesting to be exempted from the tax. Upon
receipt of the exemption certificate and until otherwise instructed by the
Board or except as required by division (B)(2), the employer shall not withhold
the tax from the person during the calendar year or the remainder of the
calendar year for which the exemption certificate applies. Employers shall
ensure that the exemption certificate forms are readily available to employees
at all times and shall furnish each new employee with a form at the time of
hiring. The exemption certificate form shall be the uniform form provided by
the township.
      (2)   With respect to a person who claimed an exemption for a given
calendar year from the tax, upon notification to an employer by the person or
by the township that the person has received earned income and net profits from
all sources within the township equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that
calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for the tax exemption
for that calendar year, or upon an employer’s payment to the person of earned
income within the township in an amount equal to or in excess of $12,000 in
that calendar year, an employer shall withhold the local services tax from the
person under division (B)(3).
      (3)   If a person who claimed an exemption for a given calendar year from
the tax becomes subject to the tax for the calendar year under division (B)(2),
the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar year.
The employer shall withhold from the person, for the first payroll period after
receipt of the notification under division (B)(2), a lump sum equal to the
amount of tax that was not withheld from the person due to the exemption
claimed by the person under this division (B), plus the per payroll amount due
for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per payroll for the
remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be the same amount
withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a person subject
to withholding of the tax under this division (B)(3) is subsequently severed in
that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any outstanding balance of
tax due, and the township may pursue collection under this chapter.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(2), it is the intent of this
division (B) that employers shall not be responsible for investigating
exemption certificates, monitoring tax exemption eligibility or exempting any
employee from the local services tax.
   (C)   Refunds. The Board, in consultation with the Collector and DCED, shall
establish procedures for the processing of refund claims for any tax paid by
any person who is eligible for exemption, which procedures shall be in accord
with provisions of the general municipal law relating to refunds of
overpayments and interest on overpayments. Refunds made within 75 days of a
refund request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit
the tax for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is later, shall
not be subject to interest. No refunds shall be made for amounts overpaid in a
calendar year that do not exceed $1. The Board or the Collector shall determine
eligibility for exemption and provide refunds to exempt persons.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.026 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS TO COLLECT.
   (A)   Each employer within the township, as well as those employers situated
outside the township but who engage in business within the township, is hereby
charged with the duty of collecting the tax from each of his or her employees
engaged by him or her or performing for him or her within the township and
making a return and payment thereof to the Collector. Further, each employer is
hereby authorized to deduct this tax for each employee in his or her employ,
whether said employee is paid by salary, wage or commission and whether or not
all such services are performed within the township.
   (B)   A person subject to the tax shall be assessed by the employer a pro
rata share of the tax for each payroll period in which the person is engaging
in an occupation. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on the person for a
payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the tax levied for
the calendar year by the number of payroll periods established by the employer
for the calendar year. For purposes of determining the pro rata share, an
employer shall round down the amount of the tax collected each payroll period
to the nearest one-hundredth of a dollar. Collection of the tax shall be made
on a payroll period basis for each payroll period in which the person is
engaging in an occupation, except as provided in division (D) below. For
purposes of this division (B), COMBINED RATE shall mean the aggregate annual
rate of the tax levied by the school district and the township.
   (C)   No person shall be subject to the payment of the local services tax by
more than one political subdivision during each payroll period.
   (D)   In the case of concurrent employment, an employer shall refrain from
withholding the tax if the employee provides a recent pay statement from a
principal employer that includes the name of the employer, the length of the
payroll period and the amount of the tax withheld and a statement from the
employee that the pay statement is from the employee’s principal employer and
the employee will notify other employers of a change in principal place of
employment within two weeks of its occurrence. The employee’s statement shall
be provided on the form approved by DCED.
   (E)   The tax shall be no more than $52 on each person for each calendar
year, irrespective of the number of political subdivisions within which a
person maybe employed. The township shall provide a taxpayer a receipt of
payment upon request by the taxpayer.
   (F)   No employer shall be held liable for failure to withhold the tax or
for the payment of the withheld tax money to the township if the failure to
withhold taxes arises from incorrect information submitted by the employee as
to the employee’s place or places of employment, the employee’s principal
office or where the employee is principally employed. Further, an employer
shall not be liable for payment of the local services tax in an amount
exceeding the amount withheld by the employer if the employer complies with the
provisions of §
35.025(B) and this section and remits the amount so withheld in accordance with
this chapter.
   (G)   Employers shall be required to remit the local services taxes 30 days
after the end of each quarter of a calendar year.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.027 RETURNS.
   Each employer shall prepare and file a return showing a computation of the
tax on forms to be supplied to the employer by the Collector. If an employer
fails to file the return and pay the tax, whether or not the employer makes
collection thereof from the salary, wages or commissions paid by him or her to
an employee, except as provided hereafter in this chapter, the employer shall
be responsible for the payment of the tax in full as though the tax had been
originally levied against the employer.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.028 DATES FOR DETERMINING TAX LIABILITY AND PAYMENT.
   In each tax year, each employer shall use his or her employment records to
determine the number of employees from whom such tax shall be deducted and paid
over to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day following the end of each
calendar quarter of each such tax year.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.029 SELF-EMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS.
   Each self-employed individual who performs services of any type or kind or
engages in any occupation or profession within a primary place of employment
within the township shall be required to comply with this chapter and pay the
pro rata portion of the tax due to the Collector on or before the thirtieth day
following the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.030 INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN MORE THAN ONE OCCUPATION OR EMPLOYED IN MORE
THAN ONE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The situs of the tax shall be the place of employment on the first day
the person becomes subject to the tax during each payroll period. In the event
a person is engaged in more than one occupation, that is, concurrent
employment, or an occupation which requires the person working in more than one
political subdivision during a payroll period, the priority of claim to collect
the local services tax shall be in the following order:
      (1)   First, the political subdivision in which a person maintains his or
her principal office or is principally employed;
      (2)   Second, the political subdivision in which the person resides and
works if the tax is levied by that political subdivision;
      (3)   Third, the political subdivision in which a person is employed and
which imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   (B)   In case of dispute, a tax receipt of the taxing authority for that
calendar year declaring that the taxpayer has made prior payment constitutes
prima facie certification of payment to all other political subdivisions.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.031 NONRESIDENTS SUBJECT TO TAX.
   All employers and self-employed individuals residing or having their places
of business outside of the township but who perform services of any type or
kind or engage in any occupation or profession within the township do, by
virtue thereof, agree to be bound by and subject themselves to the provisions,
penalties and regulations promulgated under this chapter with the same force
and effect as though they were residents of the township. Further, any
individual engaged in an occupation within the township and an employee of a
nonresidential employer may, for the purpose of this chapter, be considered a
self-employed person, and in the event his or her tax is not paid, the township
shall have the option of proceeding against either the employer or employee for
the collection of this tax as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018) Penalty, see §
35.999
§ 35.032 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   (A)   The Collector shall be appointed by resolution of the Board. It shall
be the duty of the Collector to accept and receive payments of this tax and to
keep a record thereof showing the amount received by him or her from each
employer or self-employed person, together with the date the tax was received.
   (B)   The Collector is hereby charged with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter and is hereby charged and empowered, subject to
Board approval, to proscribe, adopt and promulgate rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this
chapter, including provisions for the examination of payroll records of any
employer subject to this chapter, the examination and correction of any return
made in compliance with this chapter and any payment alleged or found to be
incorrect or as to which overpayment is claimed or found to have occurred. Any
person aggrieved by any decision of the Collector shall have the right to
appeal consistent with the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights under Act 50 of 1998.
   (C)   The Collector is hereby authorized to examine the books and payroll
records of any employer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made by
an employer or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Each employer
is hereby directed and required to give the Collector the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examination.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.033 SUITS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   In the event that any tax under this chapter remains due or unpaid 30
days after the due dates above set forth, the Collector may sue for the
recovery of any such tax due or unpaid under this chapter, together with
interest and penalty.
   (B)   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 6% on the amount of such tax shall be calculated beginning with the due date
of the tax and a penalty of 5% shall be added to the flat rate of such tax for
nonpayment thereof. Where suit is brought for the recovery of this tax or other
appropriate remedy undertaken, the individual liable therefor shall, in
addition, be responsible and liable for the costs of collection.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 35.034 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be constructed to empower the
township to levy and collect the tax hereby imposed on any occupation not
within the taxing power of the township under the Constitution of the United
States and the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   (B)   If the tax hereby imposed under the provisions of this chapter shall
be held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or of the laws of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania as to any individual, the decision of the court shall not affect
or impair the right to impose or collect said tax or the validity of the tax so
imposed on other persons or individuals as herein provided.
(Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
REALTY TRANSFER TAX
§ 35.045 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   The township adopts the provisions of Article XI-D of the Tax Reform Code of
1971 and imposes a realty transfer tax as authorized under that article subject
to the rate limitations therein. The tax imposed under this section shall be at
the rate of 0.5% of the value of the real estate.
(Ord. 108, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 35.046 ADMINISTRATION.
   The tax imposed under §
35.045 and all applicable interest and penalties shall be administered,
collected and enforced under the Act of December 31, 1965 (P.L. 1257, No. 511),
as amended, known as “The Local Tax Enabling Act”; provided, that if the
correct amount of the tax is not paid by the last date prescribed for timely
payment, (the township, pursuant to § 1102-D of the Tax Reform Code of 1971 (72
P.S. § 8102-D), authorizes and directs the Department of Revenue of the
commonwealth to determine, collect and enforce the tax, interest and penalties.
(Ord. 108, passed 12-7-2006)
§ 35.047 INTEREST.
   Any tax imposed under §
35.045 that is not paid by the date the tax is due shall bear interest as
prescribed for interest on delinquent municipal claims under the Act of May 16,
1923 (P.L. 207, No. 153) (53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.), as amended, known as the
“Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act”. The interest rate shall be the lesser of
the interest rate imposed upon delinquent commonwealth taxes as provided in §
806 of the Act of April 9, 1929 (P.L. 343, No 176) (72 P.S. § 806), as amended,
known as the “Fiscal Code”, or the maximum interest rate permitted under the
Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act for tax claims.
(Ord. 108, passed 12-7-2006)
REAL PROPERTY TAX
§ 35.080 TAX RATE.
   A tax be and the same is hereby levied on all real property within the
township subject to taxation for the fiscal year. The tax amounts can be found
in the resolution that is amended from time to time, a copy of which can be
found in the township office.
§ 35.081 MILLAGE FREEZE.
   (A)   The following real property is hereby exempt from further millage
increases imposed on such real property:
      (1)   Real property in which the open space property interests have been
acquired by a local government unit in accordance with Act No. 442, P.L. 992 of
1967, as amended by Act No. 153 of 1996, as amended by Act No. 4 of 2006;
      (2)   Real property that is subject to an easement acquired in accordance
with the Act of June 30, 1981 (P.L. 128, No. 43), 3 P.S. §§ 901 et seq., known
as the “Agricultural Area Security Law”; and
      (3)   Real property from which “transferable development rights” (TDRs)
have been transferred and retired by a local government unit without their
development potential having occurred on other lands; and provided that the
exemption from further millage increases for real property as provided for in
division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) shall be authorized only for real property
qualifying for such exemption under the provisions of § 2(b)(1) of Article VIII
of the Constitution of Pennsylvania.
   (B)   The millage freeze authorized by this section shall apply to all
eligible real property, whether the real property met the criteria of the
ordinances prior to or subsequent to the effective date hereof. For prior
acquisitions, the date on which the millage rate shall be frozen shall be the
effective date of this section. For subsequent acquisitions, the date on which
the millage rate shall be frozen shall be the date the local government unit
completes the acquisition under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above. The
governing body of each taxing district shall give prompt notice to the
appropriate tax collection agent of the exact amount of the millage, the date
it was frozen, and each parcel to which the freeze applies.
   (C)   Any real property otherwise eligible for exemption hereunder may be
released from exemption upon written request of the owner delivered to the
township and the other governing bodies of each taxing district authorizing
exemption on or before the real estate tax levy in any school year.
   (D)   If a landowner changes the use of any tract of land subject to the
millage freeze under this section to one which is inconsistent with the
provisions of the Agricultural Area Security Law, or for any other reason the
land is removed from a land use category under division (A) above, except for a
condemnation of the land, the land so removed and the entire tract of which it
was a part shall be subject to roll-back taxes plus interest at the rate of 6%
per annum. Roll-back taxes shall be calculated by the County Fiscal Office,
based on an amount equal to the difference between the taxes paid or payable in
the previous ten tax years or since the tax year of the date of acquisition,
whichever is less, had the millage not been frozen. The unpaid taxes required
to be repaid under the section shall act as a lien upon the property,
collectible in the manner provided by law for the collection of delinquent
taxes.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall remain in effect for a period of
ten years, after which they shall expire unless specifically renewed. Upon
expiration, any property subject to the millage freeze will be subject to the
millage rate then in effect.
   (F)   The township may repeal this section at any time; provided, however,
that any real property which is subject to the freeze when the section is
repealed shall thereafter continue to be frozen, but only for so long as the
properties otherwise continue to be eligible for exemption under the Act.
   (G)   This section shall become effective for a particular taxing district
only if the governing body of every taxing authority for the particular taxing
district that imposes a tax on the real property approves the exemption by
adoption of an ordinance authorizing such exemption and, if so, on the date the
last of the required ordinances becomes effective.
(Ord. 109, passed 12-7-2006; Ord. 148, passed 9-15-2016)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Interest and penalties.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) below, if the income
tax in §§
35.001 through
35.008 is not paid when due, interest at the rate the taxpayer is required to
pay to the commonwealth under § 806 of the Act of April 9, 1929 (P.L. 343, No.
176), known as the Fiscal Code, 72 P.S. § 806, on the amount of the income tax,
and an additional penalty of 1% of the amount of the unpaid income tax for each
month or fraction of a month during which the income tax remains unpaid shall
be added and collected but the amount shall not exceed 15% in the aggregate.
Where an action is brought for the recovery of the income tax, the taxpayer
liable for the income tax shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of
collection, interest and penalties.
         (b)   The Department may establish conditions under which a Tax
Officer, with the concurrence of the Tax Collection Committee, may abate
interest or penalties that would otherwise be imposed for the nonreporting or
underreporting of income tax liabilities or for the nonpayment of income taxes
previously imposed and due if the taxpayer voluntarily files delinquent returns
and pays the income taxes in full.
         (c)   The provisions of division (B)(1)(b) shall not affect or
terminate any petitions, investigations, prosecutions or other proceedings
pending under §§
35.001 through
35.008, or prevent the commencement or further prosecution of any proceedings
by the proper authorities for violations of §§
35.001 through
35.008. No proceedings shall, however, be commenced on the basis of delinquent
returns filed pursuant to §
35.005(H) if the returns are determined to be substantially true and correct
and the income taxes are paid in full within the prescribed time.
      (2)   Fines and penalties for violations.
         (a)   Any taxpayer who fails, neglects or refuses to make any
declaration or return required by §§
35.001 through
35.008, any employer who fails, neglects or refuses to register, keep or supply
records or returns required by § 512 of the LTEA, 53 P.S. § 6924.512, or to pay
the income tax deducted from employees, or fails, neglects or refuses to deduct
or withhold the income tax from employees, any taxpayer or employer who refuses
to permit the Tax Officer appointed by a Tax Collection Committee or an
employee or agent of the Tax Officer to examine books, records and papers, and
any taxpayer or employer who knowingly makes any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return, or attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of income in order to avoid the payment of income
taxes shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $2,500 for each offense and reasonable costs, and in default of payment of
said fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than six months.
         (b)   Any employer required under §§
35.001 through
35.008 to collect, account for and distribute income taxes who willfully fails
to collect or truthfully account for and distribute income taxes, commits a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine not
exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both.
         (c)   The penalties imposed under this division (B)(2) shall be in
addition to any other costs and penalties imposed by division (B)(1) above and
§§
35.001 through
35.008.
         (d)   The failure of any person to obtain forms required for making
the declaration or returns required by §§
35.001 through
35.008 shall not excuse the person from making the declaration or return.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates §
35.005(K)(2) commits a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $2,500 or to
imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. If the offender is a member
of the Tax Collection Committee, the member shall be removed from the Tax
Collection Committee. If the offender is an employee of a Tax Collection
Committee or the township, the employee shall be discharged from employment.
The offender shall pay the costs of prosecution.
   (C)   Whoever makes any false or untrue statement on any return required by
§§
35.020 through
35.034, or whoever refuses inspection of the books, records or accounts in his
or her custody and control setting forth the number of employees subject to
this tax who are in his or her employment, or whoever fails or refuses to file
any return required by §§
35.020 through
35.034 shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 and costs of prosecution, and, in
default of payment of such fine and costs, to imprisonment for not more than 30
days. The action to enforce the penalty herein prescribed may be instituted
against any person in charge of the business of any employer who shall have
failed or who refuses to file a return required by §§
35.020 through
35.034.
(Ord. 131, passed 8-18-2011; Ord. 158, passed 12-6-2018)
CHAPTER 36: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
36.01   General fee schedules
   
36.02   Real property tax collection fees
   
36.03   Procedures and amounts of attorney fees
§ 36.01 GENERAL FEE SCHEDULES.
   The Board of Supervisors established fee schedules and costs for various
applications, services and items on a reoccurring basis which are on file in
the township office and adopted and incorporated as part of this code as fully
as if set out at length herein.
§ 36.02 REAL PROPERTY TAX COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   The township hereby authorizes the real property tax collector to
assess, collect and retain as compensation $5 per duplicate/memo bill requested
and $25 for NSF checks.
   (B)   The township hereby authorizes the tax collector to assess, collect
and retain, as compensation for providing tax certifications upon request of
the public, a fee of $30.
   (C)   Any future changes to that fee structure may be established by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the township.
   (D)   The Board of Supervisors of the township does hereby establish the
Elected Tax Collector’s compensation to be a commission on funds collected by
the elected tax collector for the township, as follows:
 
Tax                     Effective January 1, 2022 Effective January 1, 2026
Fire hydrant assessment 5%                        3.0%
Fire service tax                                  3.0%
Real estate tax         5%                        3.0%
Street light assessment 5%                        3.0%
 
(Ord. 55, passed 2-6-1991; Res. 2009-016, passed 2-5-2009; Ord. 123, passed 5-
21-2009; Ord. 132, passed 11-3-2011; Res. 2017-017, passed 1-3-2017; Res. 2020-
036, passed 12-3-2020; Res. 2020-037, passed 12-3-2020; Res. 2024-040, passed
12-5-2024; Res. 2025-022, passed 2-6-2025)
§ 36.03 PROCEDURES AND AMOUNTS OF ATTORNEY FEES.
   (A)   The township hereby approves the statement of collection procedures
for delinquent unpaid assessments, user fees, municipal claims and other
charges which are covered by the Municipal Claims and Tax Lien Act (“accounts”)
as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   (1)   The township hereby establishes the following schedule of
attorney fees for services in connection with the collection of accounts, which
is hereby determined to be fair and reasonable compensation for the services
set forth below:
Legal Services Fee for Services
Legal Services                             Fee for Services
File lien and mailing demand letter        $50
Initial review and sending first notice/   $25
demand letter
Prepare and mail letter under Pa.R.C.P. § $20
237.1
Prepare motion for alternative service     $150
Prepare writ of scire facias               $125
Re-issue writ                              $50
Second notice/demand letter                $15
Services not covered by above, including
but not limited to, drafting motion for
summary judgment and related judgment;     An hourly amount equivalent to the Solicitor’s regular charges to the
preparing writ of execution; attendance at township
sale; reviewing schedule of distribution
and resolution of distribution issues
 
      (2)   There shall be added to the above amounts the reasonable out-of-
pocket expenses of counsel in connection with each of these services, as
itemized in the applicable counsel bills, which shall be deemed to be part of
the fees.
      (3)   The amount of the fees determined as set forth above shall be added
to the township’s claim in each account.
   (C)   The following collection procedures are hereby established.
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to assessing or imposing fees in connection
with the collection of an account, the township shall mail or cause to be
mailed, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of such intention
to the taxpayer or other entity liable for the account (“account debtor”).
      (2)   If within 30 days after mailing the notice in accordance with
division (C)(1) above, the certified mail to any account debtor is refused or
unclaimed and the return receipt is not received, then at least ten days prior
to the assessing or imposing of such attorney fees, the township shall mail or
cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a second notice to such account
debtor.
      (3)   All notices required by this ordinance shall be mailed to the
account debtor’s last known post office address as recorded in the records or
other information of the township, or such other address as it may be able to
obtain from the County Office of Assessments.
      (4)   Each notice described above shall include the following:
         (a)   The type of tax or other charge, the date it became due and the
amount owed, including penalty and interest;
         (b)   A statement of the township’s intent to impose or assess
attorney fees within 30 days after the mailing of the first notice, or within
ten days after the mailing of the second notice;
         (c)   The manner in which the assessment or imposition of attorney
fees may be avoided by payment of the account; and
         (d)   The place of payment for accounts and the name and telephone
number of the township official designated as responsible for collection
matters.
   (D)   The proper officials of the township are hereby authorized and
empowered to take additional action as they may deem necessary and appropriate
to implement the terms of this section.
(Ord. 75, passed 3-5-1998)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   HOLDING TANKS
      
53.   GRINDER PUMPS
      
54.   SEWERS
      
55.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
Solid Waste
   
50.01   Title
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Storage of municipal waste
   
50.04   Authorization of collectors
   
50.05   Transportation of solid waste
   
50.06   Disposal of municipal waste
   
50.07   Exclusions
   
50.08   Effect of additional regulations
   
50.09   Preparation and implementation of a county solid waste management plan
Waste Reduction and Recycling
   
50.20   Short title
   
50.21   Authority
   
50.22   Purpose and goals
   
50.23   Definitions
   
50.24   Powers, duties and responsibilities of the township
   
50.25   Township recycling program
   
50.26   Drop-off center
   
50.27   Annual report
Yard Waste
   
50.40   Yard waste rules and regulations
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Wastewater, see
Chapter 55
   Zoning, see
Chapter 155
SOLID WASTE
§ 50.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Upper Milford Township Municipal
Solid Waste Ordinance”.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person desirous of being authorized as a collector.
   COLLECTOR. A person authorized to collect, transport and dispose of
municipal waste from the township.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in a nonmanufacturing or
nonprocessing business, including, but not limited to, stores, markets, office
buildings, restaurants, shopping centers and theaters.
   DISPOSAL. The incineration, deposition, injection, dumping, spilling,
leaking or placing of municipal waste into or on the land or water in a manner
that the waste or a constituent of the waste enters the environment, is emitted
into the air, or is discharged to the waters of the commonwealth.
   DISPOSAL SITE. Any site, facility, location, area or premises to be used for
the disposal of municipal waste.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes attending or resulting from the
handling, dealing, storing, preparation, cooking and consumption of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in manufacturing or
processing, including, but not limited to, factories, foundries, mills,
processing plants, refineries and the like.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment engaged in service to
persons, including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, orphanages,
schools and universities.
   MANAGEMENT. The entire process, or any part thereof, of storage, collection,
transportation, processing, treatment and disposal of municipal waste by any
person engaging in such process.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste
and other material including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
material resulting from operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities and any sludge not
meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste from a municipal,
commercial or institutional water supply treatment plant, wastewater treatment
plant or air pollution control facility (Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management,
Act 97, § 103, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.)
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, institution,
cooperative enterprise, municipal authority, federal government or agency,
state institution and agency, or any other legal entity whatsoever which is
recognized by law as being subject to the rights and duties of a person.
   PROCESSING. Any technology used for the purpose of reducing the volume or
bulk of municipal waste or any technology used to convert part of all of such
waste materials for off-site reuse. PROCESSING FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to, transfer facilities, composting facilities, incinerators, recycling
facilities and resource recovery facilities.
   REFUSE. The collective term applying to all garbage, rubbish, ashes, leaves
and grass trimmings from residential, municipal, commercial or institutional
premises.
   REGULAR. At least three or more times per month.
   SOLID WASTE. Any waste, including, but not limited to, municipal, residual
or hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous
materials (Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management, Act 97, § 103, 35 P.S. §§
6018.101 et seq.)
   STORAGE. The containment of any municipal waste on a temporary basis in such
a manner as not to constitute disposal of such waste, and it shall be presumed
that the containment of any municipal waste in excess of one year constitutes
disposal.
   TOWNSHIP. Upper Milford Township, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania.
   TRANSPORTATION. The off-site removal of any municipal waste generated or
present at any time from the township.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985)
§ 50.03 STORAGE OF MUNICIPAL WASTE.
   (A)   General. It shall be the duty of every owner of property and every
person occupying any dwelling unit, premises or place of business within the
township where municipal waste is produced and is accumulated, by his or her
own expense and cost, to provide and keep at all times, a sufficient number of
containers to hold all municipal waste which may accumulate during the
intervals between collection of such municipal waste by an authorized
collector.
   (B)   Storage on residential properties.
      (1)   Containers. All municipal waste accumulated by owners of each
residential property and/or the occupants of residential properties shall be
placed in containers for collection by an authorized collector. The containers
shall be durable, water-tight, and made of metal or plastic. Securely tied
plastic bags may be used in cases where such bags can be used without being
torn open by domestic or wild animals. The size of each such container shall
not exceed a 30-gallon capacity. However, large containers designed for use
with special hoisting equipment may be used if the collector serving the
residence uses collection vehicles with special hoisting equipment.
      (2)   Location of containers. Each municipal waste container shall be
located so as to be accessible to the collector at ground level and at a point
on the curb line of the street, or within no less than ten feet of the public
street or alley right-of-way from which collection from a vehicle can be made.
Failure to place containers at such locations may result in discontinuance of
service.
      (3)   Storage on commercial, institutional and industrial properties.
         (a)   Containers. Storage of municipal waste on commercial,
institutional and industrial properties shall be done in the same type of
containers as are required for residential properties except that containers
larger than 30 gallons may be used, where needed, to accommodate larger volumes
of municipal wastes. Such containers shall be kept in good working order.
         (b)   Location of containers. Containers for collection at commercial,
institutional and industrial properties shall be located on such premises at a
place which shall not interfere with public or private sidewalks, driveways,
roads, streets, highways or entrances and exits or public or private buildings.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 AUTHORIZATION OF COLLECTORS.
   (A)   Unauthorized collection and transportation. It shall be unlawful for
any person, other than such persons as are duly authorized by the township, to
collect and transport solid waste of any nature as a regular hauling business
within or from the township. Authorization shall be given only as set forth
below.
   (B)   Licensing procedure. All haulers of solid waste within the township
shall comply with the requirements of the County Solid Waste Management Plan
and Ordinance and the County Waste Rules and Regulations which are currently
enacted or may hereinafter be enacted by the county.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985; Ord. 36A, passed 12-2-1992; Ord. 36B, passed 10-5-
2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Prevention of spillage. Any person transporting solid waste within the
township shall prevent or remedy any spillage from vehicles or containers used
in the transport of such solid waste.
   (B)   Reporting requirements.
      (1)   Any person transporting solid waste within the township shall file
a report with the township on a quarterly basis detailing the quantity of items
recycled.
      (2)   Failure by a collector to timely file any report shall subject said
collector to the penalties hereinafter noted in §
50.99.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985; Ord. 36A, passed 12-2-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 DISPOSAL OF MUNICIPAL WASTE.
   (A)   Designated facilities. All municipal waste produced, collected and
transported from within the jurisdictional limits of the township shall be, to
the extent permitted by law, disposed of at disposal facilities designated by
the township and in accordance with any currently effective solid waste
management plan of the township. In the absence of such designated facilities
and/or such currently effective solid waste management plan, municipal waste
from the township must be disposed of at a state-permitted facility.
   (B)   Notice to collectors. If the township designates the disposal
facilities as provided for above, all authorized collectors and other
interested persons shall be informed of the location and other information
pertaining to the designated disposal facilities to be used for the disposal of
municipal waste collected, transported, removed and disposed.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985)
§ 50.07 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Individuals not engaged in collection. Nothing contained herein shall
be deemed to prohibit any residential property occupant not regularly engaged
in the business of collecting municipal waste from hauling his or her own
municipal waste, on an irregular and unscheduled basis, to a state-permitted
disposal facility.
   (B)   Farming activities. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit a farmer
from carrying out the normal activities of his or her farming operation,
including composting and spreading of manure or other farm-produced
agricultural waste.
   (C)   Hazardous and residual waste. The provisions of this subchapter do not
apply to anything but the storage, collection, transportation and disposal of
municipal waste and do not apply, therefore, to hazardous or residual waste as
defined by the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985)
§ 50.08 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and local
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, including the rules and regulations as
set forth by the Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985)
§ 50.09 PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Act 1980-97, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq. (known as the Solid Waste
Management Act) provides that each municipality shall be responsible for the
collection, transportation, processing and disposal of municipal waste which is
generated or present within its boundaries and shall be responsible for
implementing its approved plan as it relates to the storage, collection,
transportation, processing and disposal of its municipal wastes.
   (B)   Under Article IX, § 5 of the Pennsylvania Constitution and the Act of
July 12, 1972, municipalities are given the broadest possible authority to
cooperate with other governmental units in the exercise of any function so that
what a municipality may do on its own, it may do in concert with other
governmental units.
   (C)   The county can be designated as the coordinating agency on behalf of
the municipalities within the county.
   (D)   The township is hereby empowered to enter into agreements with other
municipalities or other public bodies in the county for the purpose of
establishing a cooperation among such municipalities toward the completion and
implementation of a Solid Waste Management Plan as long as the parties adhere
to the following terms.
      (1)   The township will commit itself to participation as an active
member in the solid waste management planning process.
      (2)   The township shall designate the county to prepare the Solid Waste
Management Plan.
      (3)   The township shall cooperate with the participating entities in
approving a budget and other related fiscal activities necessary to undertake
this planning process.
      (4)   The township shall agree to share in the costs of the planning
process on a per capita basis. The per capita amount shall be agreed upon by a
simple majority of participating municipalities.
      (5)   The township shall agree to designate an individual to serve on the
County Solid Waste Association.
   (E)   The proper officers and other personnel of the township are hereby
authorized and empowered to take all such further action and execute such
additional documents, including the necessary agreements between the county and
the municipalities and other public bodies which decide to enter into the
aforesaid program, as they may deem appropriate to carry out the purpose of
this section.
(Ord. 33, passed 12-29-1982)
WASTE REDUCTION AND RECYCLING
§ 50.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Upper Milford
Township Waste Reduction and Recycling Ordinance”.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 50.21 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the Solid Waste Management Act, 35
P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq., and the Municipal Waste Planning Recycling and Waste
Reduction Act, 53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 50.22 PURPOSE AND GOALS.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to:
   (A)   Require waste reduction and recycling as a means of managing municipal
waste, conserving resources and supplying energy;
   (B)   Protect the public health, safety and welfare from the short- and
long-term dangers of collection, transportation, processing and storage of
municipal waste;
   (C)   Utilize, wherever feasible, the capabilities of private enterprise in
accomplishing the desired objectives of an effective, comprehensive solid waste
management program;
   (D)   Establish and implement within the township a recycling program to
return valuable materials to productive use, to conserve energy and to protect
capacity at municipal waste processing or disposal facilities;
   (E)   Recycle at least 25% of all municipal waste and source-separated
recyclable materials generated in the township on and after January 1, 1997;
   (F)   The weight or volume of municipal waste generated per capita in the
township on January 1, 1997, should to the greatest extent practicable, be less
than the weight or volume of municipal waste generated per capita on the
effective date of this subchapter;
   (G)   Each person living or working in the township shall be taught the
economic, environmental and energy value of recycling and waste reduction, and
shall be encouraged through a variety of means to participate in such
activities; and
   (H)   The township shall, to the greatest extent practicable, procure and
use products and materials with recycled content, and procure and use materials
that are recyclable.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 50.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The restoration, reclamation, recovery and the like of a natural
resource adversely affected by the activity of a person.
   AVERAGE DAILY VOLUME. The mean daily volume received at a facility taking
into account weather and seasonal variations, scheduled community cleanup days
and other factors.
   COMMONWEALTH AGENCY. The commonwealth and its departments, boards,
commissions and agencies, commonwealth owned universities, and the State Public
School Building Authority, the State Highway and Bridge Authority and any other
authority now in existence or hereafter created or organized by the
commonwealth.
   DEGRADABLE PLASTIC BEVERAGE CARRIER. Plastic beverage carriers that degrade
by biological processes, photodegradation, chemodegradation or degradation by
other natural processes. The degradation process does not produce or result in
a residue or by-product considered to be hazardous waste.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Environmental Protection of the commonwealth
and its authorized representatives.
   DISPOSAL. The deposition, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing
of solid waste into or on the land or water in a manner that the solid waste or
a constituent of the solid waste enters the environment, is emitted into the
air or is discharged to the waters of this commonwealth.
   FEASIBILITY STUDY. A study which analyzes a specific municipal waste
processing or disposal system to assess the likelihood that the system can be
successfully implemented, including, but not limited to, an analysis of the
prospective market, the projected costs and revenues of the system, the
municipal waste-stream that the system will rely upon and various options
available to implement the system.
   LEAF WASTE. Leaves, garden residues, shrubbery and tree trimmings and
similar material, but not including grass clippings.
   LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Counties, cities, boroughs, towns, townships, school districts and
any other authority now in existence or hereafter created or organized by the
commonwealth;
      (2)   All municipal or school or other authorities now in existence or
hereafter created or organized by any county, city, borough, township or school
district or any combination thereof; and
      (3)   Any and all other public bodies, authorities, councils of
government, officers, agencies or instrumentalities of the foregoing, whether
exercising a governmental or proprietary function.
   MANAGEMENT. The entire process, or any part thereof, of storage, collection,
transportation, processing, treatment and disposal of solid waste by any person
engaging in such process.
   MUNICIPAL RECYCLING PROGRAM. A source separation and collection program for
recycling the township’s waste or source-separated recyclable materials, or a
program for designated drop-off points or collection centers for recycling the
township’s waste or source-separated recyclable materials, that is operated by
or on behalf of the township. The term includes any source separation and
collection program for composting yard waste that is operated by or on behalf
of the township. The term shall not include any program for recycling
construction/demolition waste or sludge from sewage treatment plants or water
supply treatment plants.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste
and other material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material, resulting from operation of residential, municipal, commercial or
institutional establishments and from community activities and any sludge not
meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste in the Solid Waste
Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq. from a municipal, commercial or
institutional water supply treatment plant, wastewater treatment plan or air
pollution or air pollution control facility. The term does not include source-
separated recyclable materials.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE LANDFILL. Any facility that is designated, operated or
maintained for the disposal of municipal waste, whether or not such facility
possesses a permit from the Department under the Solid Waste Management Act, 35
P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq. The term does not include any facility that is used
exclusively for disposal of construction/demolition waste or sludge from sewage
treatment plants or water supply treatment plants.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Upper Milford, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania.
   OPERATOR. A person engaged in solid waste processing or disposal. Where more
than one person is so engaged in a single operation, all persons shall be
deemed jointly and severally responsible for compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, institution
or cooperative enterprise. In any provisions of this subchapter prescribing a
fine, imprisonment or penalty, or any combination of the foregoing, the term
PERSON shall include the officers and directors of any corporation or other
legal entity having officers and directors.
   PLASTIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Plastic rings or similar plastic connectors used
as holding devices in the packing of beverages, including, but not limited to,
all carbonated beverages, liquors, wines, fruit juices, mineral waters, soda
and beer.
   POLLUTION. Contamination of any air, water, land or other natural resources
of the township that will create or is likely to create a public nuisance or to
render the air, water, land or other natural resources harmful, detrimental or
injurious to public health, safety or welfare, or to domestic, municipal,
commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or other legitimate
beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other life.
   POSTCONSUMER MATERIAL. Any product generated by a business or consumer which
has served its intended end use, and which has been separated or diverted from
solid waste for the purposes of collection, recycling and disposition. The term
includes industrial byproducts that would otherwise go to disposal or
processing facilities. The term does not include internally generated scrap
that is commonly returned to industrial or manufacturing process.
   PROCESSING. Any technology used for the purpose of reducing the volume or
bulk of municipal waste or any technology used to convert part of all of such
waste materials for offsite reuse.
   PROCESSING FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to, transfer facilities,
composting facilities and resource recovery facilities.
   PROJECT DEVELOPMENT. Those activities required to be conducted prior to
constructing a processing or disposal facility that has been shown to be
feasible, including, but not limited to, public input and participation,
siting, procurement and vendor contract negotiations, and market and municipal
waste supply assurance negotiations.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Any commonwealth agency or local public agency.
   RECYCLED CONTENT. Goods, supplies, equipment, materials and printing
containing postconsumer materials.
   RECYCLING. The collection, separation, recovery and sale or reuse of metals,
glass, paper, leaf waste, plastics and other materials which would otherwise be
disposed of or processed as municipal waste or the mechanized separation and
treatment of municipal waste (other than through combustion) and creation and
recovery of reusable materials other than a fuel for the operation of energy.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A facility employing a technology that is a process that
separates or classifies municipal waste and creates or recovers reusable
materials that can be sold to or reused by a manufacturer as a substitute for
or a supplement to virgin raw materials. The term RECYCLING FACILITY shall not
mean transfer stations or landfills for solid waste nor composting facilities
or resource recovery facilities.
   RESIDUAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, other discarded material or other
waste, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous materials
resulting from industrial, mining and agricultural operations and any sludge
from an industrial, mining or agricultural water supply treatment facility
wastewater treatment facility or air pollution control facility, provided that
it is not hazardous. The term shall not include coal refuse as defined in the
Act of September 24, 1968, (P.L. 1040, No. 318), known as the Coal Refuse
Disposal Control Act, 52 P.S. §§ 30.51 et seq. The term shall not include
treatment sludges from coal mine drainage treatment plants, disposal of which
is being carried on pursuant to and in compliance with a valid permit issued
pursuant to the Act of June 22, 1937, (P.L. 1987, No. 394), known as the Clean
Streams Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 et seq.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A processing facility that provides for the
extraction and utilization of materials or energy from municipal waste that is
generated off-site, including, but not limited to, a facility that mechanically
extracts materials from municipal waste, a combustion facility that converts
the organic fraction of municipal waste to usable energy, and any chemical and
biological process that converts municipal waste into fuel product. The term
also includes any facility for the combustion of municipal waste that is
generated off-site whether or not their facility is operated to recover energy.
The term does not include:
      (1)   Any composting facility;
      (2)   Methane gas extraction from a municipal waste landfill;
      (3)   Any separation and collection center, drop-off point or collection
center for recycling, or any source separation or collection center for
composting leaf waste; and
      (4)   Any facility, including all units in the facility, with a total
processing capacity of less than 50 tons per day.
   SOLID WASTE. Any waste, including, but not limited to, municipal, residual
or hazardous wastes, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
materials. The term does not include coal ash or drill cuttings.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT ACT. The Act of July 7, 1980 (P.L. 380, No. 97).
   SOURCE-SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from
municipal waste at the point of origin for the purpose of recycling.
   STORAGE. The containment of any municipal waste on a temporary basis in such
a manner as not to constitute disposal of such waste. It shall be presumed that
the containment of any municipal waste in excess of one year constitutes
disposal. This presumption can be overcome by clear and convincing evidence to
the contrary.
   TRANSPORTATION. The off-site removal of any municipal waste at any time
after generation.
   TREATMENT. Any method, technique or process, including, but not limited to,
neutralization, designed to change the physical, chemical or biological
character or composition of any municipal waste so as to neutralize such waste
or so as to render such waste safer for transport, suitable for recovery,
suitable for storage or reduced in volume.
   WASTE REDUCTION. Design, manufacture or use of a product to minimize weight
of municipal waste that requires processing or disposal, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Design or manufacturing activities which minimize the weight or
volume of materials contained in a product, or increase durability or
recyclability; and
      (2)   Use of products that contain as little material as possible are
capable of being reused or recycled or have an extended useful life.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 50.24 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   Responsibilities. The township shall have the power and its duty shall
be to assure the proper and adequate transportation, collection and storage of
municipal waste which is generated or present within its boundaries, to assure
adequate capacity for the disposal of municipal waste generated within its
boundaries by means of the procedure set forth in 53 P.S. § 4000.1111 of the
Municipal Waste Planning Recycling and Water Reduction Act and to adopt and
implement a program for the collection and recycling of municipal waste or
source-separated recyclable materials as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Powers. In carrying out its duties under this section, the township
may adopt resolutions establishing procedures, regulations and standards for
the recycling, transportation, storage and collection of municipal wastes, or
source-separated recyclable materials which shall not be less stringent than,
and not in violation of or inconsistent with, the provisions and purposes of
the Solid Waste Management Act (35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.), the Municipal
Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste Reduction Act (53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.)
and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Duties. The township may contract with any person to carry out its
duties for the recycling, transportation, collection and storage of municipal
waste and source-separated recyclable materials, if the recycling,
transportation, collection or storage activity or facility is conducted or
operated in a manner that is consistent with the Solid Waste Management Act,
the Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling and Waste Reduction Act, this
subchapter and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto. Any such person
shall be jointly and severally liable with the township when carrying out his,
her or its duties for transportation, collection or storage activity or
facility.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 50.25 TOWNSHIP RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The township hereby establishes and implements a source separation and
collection program for recyclable materials in accordance with 53 P.S. §
4000.1501 of the Municipal Waste Planning Recycling and Waste Reduction Act.
   (B)   The source separation and collection program shall include the
following regulations.
      (1)   Persons are hereby required to separate at least three approved
recyclable materials, deemed appropriate hereafter, from other municipal waste
generated at their homes, apartments and other residential establishments and
to store such material until collection. The approved selected materials shall
be designated periodically from the following: clear glass; brown glass; green
glass; aluminum, steel and bimetallic cans; high-grade office paper; newsprint;
corrugated paper; and plastics. Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to
impair the ownership of separated materials by the person who generated them
unless and until such materials are placed at curbside or similar location for
collection.
      (2)   Persons are hereby required to separate leaf waste from other
municipal waste generated at their homes, apartments and other residential
establishments until collection unless those persons have otherwise provided
for the composing of leaf waste.
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors of the township shall allow an owner,
landlord or agent of an owner or landlord of multi-family rental housing
properties with four or more units to comply with its responsibilities under
this section by establishing a collection system for recyclable materials at
each property. The collection system must include suitable containers for
collecting and sorting materials, easily accessible locations for the
containers, and written instructions to the occupants concerning the use and
availability of the collection system. Owners, landlords and agents of owners
or landlords who comply with this subchapter shall not be liable for the
noncompliance of occupants of their buildings.
      (4)   Persons are hereby required to separate high-grade office paper,
aluminum, corrugated paper and leaf waste and other material deemed appropriate
generated at commercial, municipal or institutional establishments and from
community activities and to store the material until collection. The township
shall exempt persons occupying commercial, institutional and municipal
establishments within its municipal boundaries from the requirements of this
subchapter if those persons have otherwise provided for the recycling of
materials they are required by this subchapter to recycle. To be eligible for
an exemption under this division (B)(4), a commercial or institutional solid
waste generator must, annually, apply for a permit to do so and pay a fee
established pursuant to resolution, and provide written documentation to the
township of the total number of tons recycled or estimated to be recycled.
      (5)   At least once per month, the separated materials are required to be
placed at the curbside or a similar location in the township in approved
containers for collection by private haulers. Maintenance of township-approved
containers shall be the responsibility of the property owner and if lost,
misplaced or otherwise unavailable must be replaced by the property owner at
his or her cost. Nothing in this section shall compel the private handler from
either directly reselling the recyclable material or delivering it to the drop-
off center to be established. Furthermore, nothing in this section shall
prohibit any person from bringing recyclable material directly to the drop-off
center.
      (6)   The township shall solicit bids and award contracts for the sale of
collected materials or recycling from their drop-off center, giving
preferential consideration, for the collection, marketing and disposition of
recyclable materials, to persons engaged in the business of recycling on the
effective date of this subchapter, whether or not the persons were operating
for profit.
      (7)   Public notice: the township shall establish a comprehensive and
sustained public information and education program concerning recycling program
features and requirements. As part of this program, the township shall, at
least 30 days prior to the initiation of the recycling program and at least
once every six months thereafter, notify all persons occupying residential,
commercial, institutional and municipal premises within its boundaries of the
requirements of this subchapter. The Board of Supervisors shall as it deems
necessary and appropriate, place an advertisement in a newspaper circulating in
the township, post a notice in public places where public notices are
customarily posted, including a notice with other official notifications
periodically mailed to residential taxpayers or utilize any combination of the
foregoing.
      (8)   Authorization of collectors.
         (a)   Unauthorized collection and transportation. It shall be unlawful
for any person, other than such persons as are duly authorized by the township
to collect and transport recyclable material as defined in this subchapter as a
regular business within or from the township. Authorization shall be given only
as set forth below.
         (b)   Licensing procedure. Authorization to collect, transport and
dispose of recyclable material for persons other than oneself may be given only
by the township through the issuance of a license. Recycling licenses may be
issued only to those persons who can provide satisfactory evidence that they
are capable of providing the necessary services and comply with the provisions
and intent of this subchapter. The township reserves the right to disprove any
application for license.
         (c)   Applicants for recycling license. Applicants for recycling
license must furnish the following information:
            1.   The make, model, license plate number and size of each vehicle
to be used for collection and transportation;
            2.   The location, address and telephone number of the business
office of the applicant;
            3.   A certificate of the applicant’s worker’s compensation
insurance as required by law;
            4.   A certificate of insurance coverage providing complete third-
party comprehensive, bodily injury and property damage, and liability
insurance, the limits of which shall not be less than $100,000/$300,000 for
bodily injury and $50,000 for property damage; and
            5.   Any other information which the township may request and deem
necessary prior to the issuance of a license.
         (d)   Term of license. Licenses shall be issued on a calendar year
basis, and may be revoked at any time by the township for failure to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter. A license shall be obtained on or
before December 31 of each year so as to authorize collection for the following
calendar year. Except as noted hereinafter, any collector who fails to obtain a
license on or before said date, shall be deemed unlicensed for the next
following calendar year, further prohibited from collection within the township
for the next following calendar year, and be subject to such penalties as
hereinafter noted. Notwithstanding the above, any new recycling haulers within
the township (i.e., those who have not been licensed to collect within three
years from the date of the issuance of a permit by the township) shall be
entitled to obtain a licensing permit, by meeting the above provisions, at any
time during the calendar year by paying the full amount of the license fee,
which permit shall be deemed to expire on December 31 of that calendar year.
         (e)   Fees. Fees for licensing shall be set by the township and the
amount thereof shall be provided to any applicant or person upon request.
         (f)   Name and number of licensee. Each vehicle must permanently
display the name and number of the licensee and the capacity on the vehicle’s
body.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 52A, passed 10-5-2000)
§ 50.26 DROP-OFF CENTER.
   (A)   The township shall establish a drop-off center at a location,
designated by resolution of the Board of Supervisors, for the collection and
sale of at least three recyclable materials.
   (B)   The three materials shall be chosen by the township pursuant to a
resolution from the following: clear glass, colored glass, aluminum, steel and
bimetallic cans, high-grade office paper, newsprint, corrugated paper and
plastics. The center shall be located at the facility or in a place that is
easily accessible to persons generating municipal waste that is processed or
disposed at the facility. Each drop-off center must contain bins or containers
where recyclable materials may be placed or temporarily stored. If the
operation of the drop-off center requires attendants, the center shall be open
at least eight hours per week, including four hours during evening or weekends,
pursuant to a schedule established by resolution of the township.
   (C)   The Board of Supervisors shall, at least 30 days prior to the
initiation of the drop-off center program and at least once every six months
thereafter, provided public notice of the availability of the drop-off center.
The township shall place an advertisement in a newspaper circulating in the
township and provide notice in another manner approved by the Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 50.27 ANNUAL REPORT.
   On or before February 15 of each year, the Board of Supervisors shall submit
a report to the county which shall describe the weight or volume of materials
that were recycled by the municipal recycling program in the preceding calendar
year.
(Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990)
YARD WASTE
§ 50.40 YARD WASTE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board hereby promulgates rules and regulations for the use of the
facility as set forth below.
      (1)   The facility is available for use by township residents only.
      (2)   Vehicle and trailer restrictions are limited to GVWR/combination of
less than 26,001 lbs.
      (3)   Commercial haulers or yard services providers are prohibited from
accessing or using the facility.
      (4)   Commercial or licensed business vehicles are permitted to use the
facility to drop off yard waste provided that:
         (a)   The vehicles are registered to a resident of the township;
         (b)   The yard waste is generated from the residence where the vehicle
is registered; and
         (c)   The owner of the vehicle has previously provided documentation
of the address of the vehicle satisfactory to the township.
      (5)   Only leaves, grass clippings, leafy garden residue, branches and
brush provided they have diameter of less than four inches and a length of less
than eight feet, and logs, provided they have a diameter of four inches or
greater and are cut to less than 20 inches in length, may be dropped off at the
facility.
      (6)   All leaf materials, branches and logs must be separated and placed
at the designated location(s).
      (7)   The following materials are strictly prohibited from being dropped
off or deposited at the township's site: sod, soil, stones, demolition
materials, stumps, logs four inches or greater or a diameter longer than 20-
inch lengths, animal wastes, trash or treated lumber.
   (B)   The Board authorizes the Township Manager to establish the hours of
operation for the facility and directs that the hours be posted at the facility
and listed on the township’s website.
   (C)   The Board reserves the right to amend the rules and regulations by
resolution.
(Res. 2010-026, passed 10-21-2010; Ord. 136, passed 6-6-2013; Res. 2022-025,
passed 2-17-2022)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall, upon conviction before a District Justice, be subject to a fine of
$600, together with the costs of prosecution and/or imprisonment of not more
than 30 days. Every violator of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day until
such violation shall continue, and shall be subject to the above penalty
imposed by this section for each and every such separate offense.
      (2)   Additional remedies. In addition to the foregoing penalty, the
township may require the owner or occupant of a property to remove any
accumulation of solid waste and should said person fail to remove such solid
waste after ten days following written notice, the township may cause the solid
waste to be collected and disposed of with the costs for such actions to be
charged to the owner or occupant of the property in a manner provided by law.
      (3)   Abatement. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall
not preclude the township from instituting appropriate actions or proceedings
to prevent the violation of §§
50.01 through
50.08, to restrain, correct or abate any such violation, or to prevent any act,
conduct, business or activity constituting a violation.
   (C)   Any person, other than a municipal official exercising his or her
official duties, who violates any provision of §§
50.20 through
50.27, any resolution enacted, hereunder, any order issued hereunder or the
terms or conditions of any contract awarded in the implementation of §§
50.20 through
50.27 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less
than $100 and not more than $1,000 and costs and, in default of the payment of
such fine and costs, to undergo imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (D)    Any person or entity violating the rules and regulations for the use
of the yard waste facility as set forth in §
50.40, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereto and/or operating
outside the permitted hours of operation, shall be subject to criminal
prosecution, and upon conviction thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a summary
offense, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which shall be fixed by the
Court at no more than 90 days and/or fined an amount not to exceed $1,000 per
violation. In addition, any person found guilty shall be directed to make
restitution to the township, be responsible for all reasonable attorney fees
and expenses incurred by the township as a result of the prosecution, and be
responsible for all costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 36, passed 12-27-1985; Ord. 52, passed 7-10-1990; Ord. 36A, passed 12-2-
1992; Res. 2010-026, passed 10-21-2010; Ord. 136, passed 6-6-2013; Res. 2022-
025, passed 2-17-2022)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Assessing the cost and expense of fire hydrants
§ 51.01 ASSESSING THE COST AND EXPENSE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The township, a Second Class Township, provides for a water supply
system to supply sufficient water for the protection of property within its
borders from fire.
   (B)   The township has also entered into contracts with other water
suppliers to utilize their fire hydrants to service property within the
boundaries of the township.
   (C)   The other water suppliers have imposed fees upon the township for the
use of those fire hydrants.
   (D)   53 P.S. § 65703 provides a system by which the monies necessary to
provide fire hydrant service may be obtained by the township, the manner in
which such assessments shall be collected and the procedures for enforcement.
   (E)   The Board of Supervisors voted to assess the cost and expense of such
fire protection service upon all property within 780 feet of any fire hydrant
in the district benefitted thereby.
   (F)   The Supervisors shall annually assess, or cause to be assessed, the
cost and expense of fire hydrant service, whether such hydrants are located
within the township or outside its territorial limits; provided, however, the
township has entered into a contract with that water supplier regarding use of
its fire hydrants, by an equal assessment upon all property whether or not
exempt from taxation by existing law, abutting upon said highways, streets,
roads and alleys, or portions thereof, and upon property within 780 feet of any
fire hydrant in the district benefitted thereby.
   (G)   No such assessment shall be made against any farmland, but vacant lots
between built-up sections, either tilled or untilled, shall not be deemed to be
farmlands.
   (H)   All such assessments for fire protection shall be filed with the
Township Tax Collector who shall give 30 days’ written or printed notice that
the assessments are due and payable, stating the due date to each party
assessed, either by service on the owner of the property or by mailing such
notice to the owner at his or her last known post office address. The Township
Tax Collector shall be entitled to the same commission for the collection of
such assessments as he or she is entitled to by law for the collection of the
township road tax. If the assessments or any of them remain unpaid at the
expiration of 90 days, they shall be placed in the hands of the Township
Solicitor for collection. The Township Solicitor shall collect the same
together with 5% as attorney’s commission and interest from the date such
assessments were due by a municipal claim filed against the property of the
delinquent owner in a like manner as municipal claims are by law filed and
collected.
   (I)   Where an owner has two or more lots against which there is an
assessment for the same year all such lots may be embraced in one claim.
   (J)   All assessments when collected shall be paid over to the Township
Treasurer who shall receive and shall keep the same in a separate account and
shall pay the same only upon order signed by the Chairperson of the Township
Supervisors attested by the Township Secretary. The Township Tax Collector and
the Township Treasurer shall make a report to the auditors of the township
annually.
   (K)   This section shall become effective five days after adoption.
(Ord. 45, passed 3-2-1988)
CHAPTER 52: HOLDING TANKS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Permit required
   
52.03   Security deposit
   
52.04   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLDING TANK. A water-tight receptacle, whether permanent or temporary,
which receives and retains sewage conveyed by a water carrying system and is
designed and constructed to facilitate the ultimate disposal of the sewage at
another site.
   OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or
partial, of any property located in the township.
   PERSON. An individual, association, partnership, corporation, company or
other group or entity.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals or any other
source, and any noxious or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to
the public health, or to animal or aquatic life or to the use of water for
domestic water supply or for recreation.
   TOWNSHIP. Upper Milford Township.
(Ord. 76, passed 3-19-1998)
§ 52.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The installation of any holding tank requires that the proper permit
be issued by the Township Sewage Enforcement Officer. The Township Sewage
Enforcement Officer shall issue permits for holding tanks for sewage disposal
only when permitted to do so under the applicable rules and regulations set
forth under 25 Pa. Code Chapters 71 through 73 inclusive.
   (B)   In addition, except for holding tanks that the Township Sewage
Enforcement Officer determines are necessary to abate a nuisance or public
health hazard, all holding tanks are subject to the following additional
regulations and restrictions.
      (1)   The Sewage Enforcement Officer shall be the administrative entity
to receive, review and retain pumping receipts from permitted holding tanks.
      (2)   The Sewage Enforcement Officer shall make annual inspections of
holding tanks and keep annual inspection reports for each holding tank.
      (3)   Each property owner shall contract with a qualified pumper/hauler
for the pumping of the owner’s septic tank. The tank pumper/hauler shall
provide proof to the Sewage Enforcement Officer that the holding tank contents
are being disposed of at a state-approved facility or location.
      (4)   Where a property owner or other person fails to pump or otherwise
fails to maintain, repair or replace a holding tank system within seven days
after receiving notice of a violation from the Sewage Enforcement Officer, such
failure shall be deemed to constitute a public nuisance and a violation of this
chapter. The township may abate the nuisance by performing the work needed, or
by contracting to perform the work needed to abate the nuisance, and may charge
the landowner or other responsible person for the cost thereof plus a penalty
of 20%. Said cost, plus penalty, may be collected by an action against said
person by the township, including additional attorney fees and costs as
established by chapter, according to law. Such costs, plus penalty and attorney
fees, may also be drawn from the security placed with the township.
(Ord. 76, passed 3-19-1998) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   Unless the Sewage Enforcement Officer determines that the use of a holding
tank is necessary to abate a nuisance or public health hazard, no person shall
operate a holding tank system and no building, zoning or occupancy permit shall
be issued for the occupancy of any structure if said structure will be served
by a holding tank system until such person has posted security with the
township in the form of a cash deposit in an amount not less than $500, based
on the size and operation of the holding tank. The security deposit required
from each owner will be determined by the Sewage Enforcement Officer and
approved by the Board of Supervisors for each holding tank based on an analysis
of the specific use.
(Ord. 76, passed 3-19-1998)
§ 52.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of enforcement, the Board of Supervisors hereby designate
the Sewage Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When it appears to the Sewage Enforcement Officer that a violation of
this chapter has or may have occurred, to achieve compliance with this chapter,
the Sewage Enforcement Officer shall commence and initiate a criminal
enforcement proceeding before the District Justice, in the name of and on
behalf of the township. Before commencing any such enforcement action, the
Sewage Enforcement Officer shall issue a written notice of violation. The
Sewage Enforcement Officer may, but is not required to, issue other enforcement
procedures as he or she may see fit in his or her sole discretion.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter hereby adopted shall not be construed
to affect any suit or proceeding now pending in any court, or any rights,
acquired, accrued or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any section, act or ordinance hereby repealed as
cited in this chapter; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
individual or of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this chapter.
(Ord. 76, passed 3-19-1998)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The amount of fine for any violation or permitted violation of this
chapter may be for any amount up to, but shall not exceed $1,000 for each
violation, plus all court costs, including reasonable attorney fees and
expenses, incurred by the township in the investigation, commencement,
preparation and prosecution of such enforcement action.
   (B)   Each day during which such violation or permitted violation of this
chapter continues shall constitute and be deemed to be a separate violation
within the meaning of this chapter. Each such continuing violation shall also
be subject to the same criminal penalty as set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 76, passed 3-19-1998)
CHAPTER 53: GRINDER PUMPS
Section
   
53.01   Purposes
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Planning requirements
   
53.04   Powers delegated by the township to the authority
   
53.05   Duties and responsibilities of the township and authority
   
53.06   Duties and responsibilities of others
   
53.07   Reimbursement of costs
   
53.08   Remedies of township and authority
   
53.09   Abatement of nuisances
   
53.10   Rules and regulations to be in conformity with applicable law
§ 53.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for the installation,
use and maintenance of sewage grinder pumps and any associated force mains or
low-pressure laterals. It is hereby declared that the enactment of this chapter
is necessary for the protection, benefit and preservation of the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of this municipality.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 537 PLAN. Upper Milford Township’s official plan as defined in the
Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act, Act of January 24, 1966, P.L. 1535 (1965),
No. 537, as amended, 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 through 750.20a (SEWAGE FACILITIES ACT or
ACT 537).
   AUTHORITY. The County Authority.
   AUTHORITY LATERAL. The service lateral between the sewer collector main
through and including the isolation valve at the right-of-way of the public
street or highway.
   CUSTOMER LATERAL. The facilities connecting the authority lateral to the
premises, which shall include the grinder pump and force main lateral between
the pump through and including the connection to the isolation valve at the
right-of-way line of the public street or highway.
   DEPARTMENT. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
   GRINDER PUMP. Any electric motor driven, submersible pump capable of
macerating all materials found in normal domestic sanitary sewage, including
reasonable amounts of objects, such as plastic, sanitary napkins, disposable
diapers, rubber and the like, of a fine slurry, and pumping material through a
small diameter discharge.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any parcel of real estate located within the township
upon which there is erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic
habitation, occupancy or use by human beings or animals and from which
structure sewage shall or may be discharged in the public sewer system.
   OFFICIAL PLAN REVISION. A change in the township Act 537 Plan to provide for
additional or newly identified future or existing sewage facilities needs, as
defined fully in § 1 of the Sewage Facilities Act, 35 P.S. § 750.1.
      (1)   REVISION FOR NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT. A revision to the Act 537 Plan
resulting from a proposed subdivision as defined in the Act.
      (2)   SPECIAL STUDY. A study, survey, investigation, inquiry, research
report or analysis, which is directly related to an update revision. The
studies provide documentation or other support necessary to solve specific
problems identified in the update revision.
      (3)   UPDATED REVISION. A comprehensive revision to the Act 537 Plan
required when the Department or the township determines the official plan or
one or more of its parts is inadequate for the existing or future sewage
facilities needs of the township or its residents or landowners.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole
or partial, of any property located in the township.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or excrement
or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals and any noxious
or deleterious substance being harmful or inimical to the public health, or to
animals or aquatic life or to the use of water for domestic water supply or for
recreation or any substance which constitutes pollution under the Clean Stream
Law, 35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through 691.1001, as amended.
   TOWNSHIP. Upper Milford Township, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, a second
class township having an address of P.O. Box 210, 5671 Chestnust Street, Old
Zionsville, Pennsylvania 18068-02101.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.03 PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.
   The connection of proposed new land development or a proposed new improved
property to an existing or proposed sewerage system through the use of sewage
grinder pumps, their associated force mains or low-pressure laterals shall
occur only after an official plan revision to the Act 537 Plan, approved by
both the township and the department, designates that the proposed properties
be served by such a connection. All existing improved properties containing a
grinder pump prior to the passage of this chapter are exempt from the
provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.04 POWERS DELEGATED BY THE TOWNSHIP TO THE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The authority is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to adopt such rules and regulations concerning
sewage, which it may deem necessary from time to time to effect the purposes
herein.
   (B)   The authority is hereby authorized and empowered to take such other
actions as are necessary including, but not limited to, entering into
agreements with property owners that ensure proper operation and maintenance of
sewage facilities within the authority’s service area, including, but not
limited to, the customer lateral which shall include the sewage grinder pumps.
   (C)   The township agrees to assist the authority in performance of these
delegated powers if and when necessary, or when requested by the authority.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TOWNSHIP AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The township shall exercise its powers and legal authority set forth
herein, and under all applicable statues, chapters and other laws to effect the
purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   The authority shall either require an agreement with each property
owner proposing to install a sewage grinder pump or low-pressure sewage system
to assure the short-term and long-term operation and maintenance, use, service,
repair or replacement of such systems or solely at its own discretion, develop
an authority administrated program to provide these services to property owners
at the individual property owner’s cost.
   (C)   The township hereby requires that all grinder pumps and low-pressure
sewer systems (and the installation, use, operation, maintenance, service,
repair and replacement thereof) shall comply with the rules and regulations of
the authority in effect or as may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The township hereby requires that all grinder pumps and low-pressure
sewer systems shall be connected to the authority’s sewage collection and
conveyance system in full compliance with the rules and regulations of the
authority in effect from time to time.
   (E)   The authority shall review the type of grinder pump used and assure
that the property owner has provided documentation that full service capacity
is available locally on short notice in case of malfunction.
   (F)   The property owner shall own the customer lateral, which includes the
grinder pump. The township and/or the authority shall near no responsibility
for the purchase, installation, use, operation, maintenance, service, repair or
replacement of the customer lateral, including the grinder pump, except as
otherwise set forth herein.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OTHERS.
   (A)   Each property owner served by a grinder pump shall bear full
responsibility for owning, providing, installing, using, operating,
maintaining, servicing, repairing and replacing his or her customer lateral,
including grinder pump, unless otherwise set forth herein.
   (B)   Where the low-pressure force main or lateral portion of the customer
lateral is shared between property owners, they shall submit to the authority a
declaration of easements, covenants and restrictions in recordable form setting
forth the agreement of each benefitted property owner with respect to the
installation, use, operation, maintenance, service, repair and replacement of
the low-pressure sewer system, which agreement shall bind all future property
owners. The authority will not issue a permit for its installation until
evidence of such agreement has been recorded in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds for the county.
   (C)   Each property owner shall annually review, for the life of the grinder
pump, and shall annually provide to the authority a copy of a system contract
with an authorized maintenance contractor (hereinafter “maintenance
contractor”) . The maintenance contractor shall be a private independent
contractor who has been given special training by the original equipment
manufacturer and is authorized by the manufacturer to service the grinder pump
and all appurtenances. As an alternative, and solely at the option of the
authority, the authority may select a maintenance contractor, or provide an
authority employee with the proper training and credentials as a maintenance
contractor, and develop a program that provides these annual reviews and
services for all properties with such grinder pumps in the township under one
contract. With the latter option, either the authority or the maintenance
contractor shall bill the customer directly or the services and all property
owners utilizing sewage grinder pumps are hereby required to participate in the
authority program. If there is an authority program developed, the property
owner shall not have the choice of retaining an independent maintenance
contractor.
   (D)   After the first month of operation of the grinder pump, and annually
thereafter, or more frequently if the manufacturer of any component parts
recommends more frequent servicing, the property owner shall have the
maintenance contractor inspect the system and have the maintenance contractor
provide the property owner and the authority with copies of a report signed by
the maintenance contractor certifying that the grinder pump is operational in
accordance with the permit. The inspection and maintenance program will
include, at a minimum, the manufacturer’s recommended services and inspections
for each separate component of the system. The maintenance contractor’s report
shall include the average daily flow from water meter readings, if available.
The report shall also indicate resolution of any deficiencies noted in the
maintenance contractor’s inspection or any service or alarm call during the
past year. If a revision or modification is made to the system, an amended and
revised drawing detailing the revision or modification shall be provided to the
property owner and the authority. The property owner is responsible for
obtaining any required permits for any revision or modification to the customer
lateral, including the grinder pump and all appurtenances to it.
   (E)   Each property owner shall inform any tenant of the chapter and
wastewater service policies.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.07 REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.
   In the event the township or the authority elects to perform the property
owner’s obligation contained in this chapter or any agreements entered into by
the property owner and the authority in performing property owner’s obligations
hereunder or in any subsequent agreements, the property owner shall reimburse
the township or the authority for all such costs.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.08 REMEDIES OF TOWNSHIP AND AUTHORITY.
   In the event of property owner’s failure to perform under this chapter or
any subsequent agreements resulting herefrom, the township and/or the authority
shall have the right to pursue whatever legal or equitable remedy either of
them shall deem appropriate, including but not limited to, bringing an action
for specific performance against the property owner to compel compliance with
this chapter or any subsequent agreement resulting herefrom. The township and/
or the authority shall also have the right to file a lien against the property
to secure to the township and/or the authority any reimbursement of costs due
to either of them.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 53.09 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In addition to any other remedies provided in this chapter, any violation of
§§
53.05 and
53.06 shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated by the township or, if
delegated by the township to the authority, the authority by either seeking
mitigation of the nuisance or appropriate equitable or legal relief from a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.10 RULES AND REGULATIONS TO BE IN CONFORMITY WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
   All such rules and regulations adopted by the authority to effectuate this
chapter shall be in conformity with the provisions herein and all applicable
laws and rules and regulations.
(Ord. 115, passed 5-17-2007)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
Septic Systems
   
54.01   Septic systems
 
   
54.99   Penalty
SEPTIC SYSTEMS
§ 54.01 SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All reserved sites for either a primary or an alternate septic system
shall be protected by the placement of silt fencing around the site.
   (B)   No sewer permit will be issued unless and until the silt fencing is
placed around the reserved primary and alternate septic system site.
   (C)   The silt fencing shall remain in place unless and until such time as
an occupancy permit is issued by the township.
(Ord. 79, passed 7-1-1999) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner or developer, who violates or permits the violation of §
54.01 shall be guilty of a summary offense, and be sentenced to a term of
imprisonment which shall be fixed at not more than 90 days, be fined up to a
maximum of $1,000, be directed to make restitution to the township for all
reasonable attorney fees, expenses and other costs of investigation as a result
of the prosecution, and be responsible for all costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 79, passed 7-1-1999)
CHAPTER 55: WASTEWATER
Section
   
55.01   Adopted by reference
§ 55.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Allentown sewage and industrial waste ordinance is hereby
adopted by reference. A full copy of the ordinance can be found in the township
office.
(Ord. 154, passed 8-17-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Controlling, regulating and prohibiting certain activities occurring on
public streets and rights-of-way
   
70.02   Sign maintenance policy
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 CONTROLLING, REGULATING AND PROHIBITING CERTAIN ACTIVITIES OCCURRING ON
PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township is desirous of controlling,
regulating and prohibiting certain activities occurring on public streets and
rights-of-way which have had an adverse effect on the safety and well being of
motorists, emergency vehicles, the traveling public and pedestrians using said
public streets and rights-of-way within the township.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors, after study and review, has concluded that
preventative action is necessary to minimize hazards which unduly interfere
with the free movement of motorists, emergency vehicles, the traveling public
and pedestrians.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be stored upon any public street or right-of-way. As
used in this division (C), the term STORED shall mean the parking of a vehicle
in one place upon any public street or right-of-way continuously for more than
one week. As used in this division (C), the term PUBLIC STREET shall include
any public road, street, alley, cul-de-sac or turn-around within said right-of-
way, and shall apply to all public roadways, whether posted as “no parking” or
not so posted.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave on the streets or highways or
public property in the township mechanically inoperable vehicles, or vehicles
without current registration plates or vehicles without current inspections
stickers, except in the case of a disabled vehicle. Disabled vehicles must be
removed from the roadway within 48 hours or will be considered abandoned within
the meaning of Pa.C.S. Title 75 (Vehicle Code).
   (E)   No person shall park, or allow to be parked, any vehicle on any street
or part of any street within the township for the principal purpose of
repairing said vehicle, except for repairs necessitated by an emergency when
such repairs would reasonably be expected to take no more than one hour to make
the vehicle operable.
   (F)   Dumpsters may be placed at the edge of the public street of the
township only when it is not possible to locate them on private property. All
persons who place or cause dumpsters to be placed on any street or public
thoroughfare must first secure a permit for such placement from the township.
Permit fees and a completed dumpster permit application shall be submitted to
the township through the Codes Enforcement Officer for review and issuance of
the permit. The township may deny a permit for reasons of safety, traffic
congestion, clear site distance obstruction or other reason which may be deemed
proper by the Codes Enforcement Officer. Any dumpster for refuse placed upon a
street shall be permitted to remain for no longer than 45 days and shall be
properly marked with reflectors, reflective tape and/or flashing yellow lights.
The term DUMPSTER as defined in this section shall mean a container used to
temporarily store trash, refuse, construction refuse or debris until such
material is removed for disposal by an authorized refuse hauler.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or allow to remain
parked, on any street or any part of any street within the township a trailer
without having attached thereto a means of mechanical traction and motive power
so constructed or designed for the purpose of pulling or drawing such trailer,
except when temporary parking is required for loading and unloading of a
delivery of goods, merchandise or materials. The term TRAILER as defined in
this section means any non-motorized vehicle designed to carry property, goods,
boats or merchandise and designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle or truck
tractor.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or allow to be placed,
any recreational equipment, material(s) or substances within a public street or
right-of-way including, but not limited to, basketball backboard stands,
bicycle ramps, go-cart ramps, skateboard ramps, stones, top soil, construction
materials or any other structure, substance or device that would constitute a
hazard to the traveling public or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 99, passed 10-7-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SIGN MAINTENANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. The following policy shall be known as “The Township Sign
Maintenance Policy”.
   (B)   Background. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)
established uniformity and standards for traffic signs on public roads.
Language in the MUTCD requires all agencies and municipalities to adopt a sign
maintenance program by June 13, 2014, which in turn will help meet minimum
retro-reflectivity requirements for installed traffic sign. All agencies that
own and maintain traffic signs are required to adhere to these requirements for
their traffic signs.
   (C)   Scope of work.
      (1)   The following signs are exempt from this policy:
         (a)   Parking/standing/stopping;
         (b)   Walking/hitchhiking;
         (c)   Blue or brown backgrounds; and
         (d)   Exclusive use of bikes or peds.
      (2)   Note: exempt signs must still meet other requirements in MUTCD
(inspections, retro- reflective and the like).
   (D)   Purpose. To maintain minimum sign retro-reflectivity compliance as
required by the FHWA Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, 2009 Edition.
   (E)   Policy.
      (1)   This policy statement describes the evaluation and assessment
method employed by the township for the general maintenance of traffic signage
and adequate sign retro-reflectivity. The method described herein consists of
routine daytime reviews for post and sign misalignment, damage theft or
deterioration and a nighttime annual visual assessment of all signs in a
specified area to assure adequate retro-reflectivity.
      (2)   Individual operators and maintenance crews travel the township
streets to and from specific work assignments each work day in all parts of our
service area. These staffers have been instructed to report any apparent
problems (i.e., vision obstruction, vandalism, collision damage or substandard
appearing traffic-control devices) immediately to the office staff, where a
maintenance work order for any needed repairs will be initiated. Other public
service staff, including zoning, sewage enforcement and parks personnel have
also been advised to report observed traffic-control device deficiencies that
might be observed during work travels throughout the township.
      (3)   To ensure continued compliance with minimum retro-reflectivity
requirements the township has adopted a “visual assessment-consistent
parameters” method of nighttime inspections with each sign being inspected once
in every 12-month time period. The township employs an SUV style vehicle, model
year 2000 or newer, to maintain adequate headlight to driver separation. The
township utilizes an older inspector (60 years of age or older) as per FHWA
guidelines. The township operates the vehicle at normal road speeds, under
average weather conditions, using only low-beam headlight intensity. Once out
on the intended route the inspector gives each road sign a pass/fail mark on
either a printed or electronic inventory for the particular route being
inspected at that time. Determination is based on the inspector’s judgment. A
repair work order is then generated from this inventory and the sub-standard
signs will be replaced in a timely manner.
(Res. 2014-021, passed 6-5-2014)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
70.01 shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500
per day per offense, plus costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 99, passed 10-7-2004)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Weight limitations
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Road Restricted Area Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
Road                Restricted Area      Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
                    From Route 29/100
Batman Road         (LR 158) to Powder   35                35       12-4-1985
                    Valley Road (LR
                    39005)
                    From its
Beck Road           intersection with    35                68       11-2-1994
                    Shimerville Road to
                    Route 29/100
                    From its
Buckeye Road        intersection with    35                91       2-20-2003
                    Chestnut Street to
                    Tank Farm Road
                    From its
                    intersection with
Fountain Road       Kings Highway South  25                54       2-6-1991
                    extending 400 feet
                    southwest of that
                    intersection
                    Between Chestnut
Indian Creek Road   Street and Saint     35                169      1-19-2023
                    Peters Road
                    Beginning 200 feet
                    north of its
                    intersection with
                    Church View Road and 25                54       2-6-1991
                    extending 400 feet
                    south of its
Kings Highway South intersection with
                    Fountain Road
                    Within the Village
                    of Zionsville from
                    700 feet northwest   30                38       2-5-1986
                    of the railroad to
                    500 feet southeast
                    of the railroad
                    From its
Kohler Road         intersection with    35                61       5-13-1992
                    Kings Highway South
                    to Church View Road
                    From its
Salem Drive         intersection with    25                64       10-7-1992
                    West Minor Street to
                    Shimerville Road
                    From its
                    intersection with
                    Main Road West to a  40                49       5-3-1989
                    point 775 feet south
                    of its intersection
                    with Beck Road
                    From a point 250
                    feet north of its
                    intersection with    40                49       5-3-1989
Shimerville Road    Beck Road to the
                    Borough line of
                    Emmaus
                    Within the interval
                    of 775 feet south of
                    its intersection
                    with Beck Road to a  40                49       5-3-1989
                    point 250 feet north
                    of its intersection
                    with Beck Road
                    Between Macungie
Sweetwood Drive     Mountain Road and    35                145      6-2-2016
                    Stone Croft Circle
                    From its
Toll Gate Road      intersection with    35                67       7-7-1993
                    Route 29 to Sigmund
                    Road
Any person who violates this speed limit shall, upon conviction, be sentenced
to pay a fine of $35. Any person exceeding the maximum speed limit by more than
5 mph shall pay an additional fine of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of 5
mph over the maximum speed limit. The Superintendent of Roads and/or
Roadmasters are directed to post on a fixed or variable traffic-control devices
the above speed limit at the beginning and end of the speed zone and at
intervals not greater than one-half mile.
 
SCHEDULE II. WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
 
Restricted Area           Weight Restriction         Ord. No.       Date Passed
Buhman Road (T-386)       14 tons                    102            12-30-2004
Bridge
Quarry Road Bridge (T-    12 tons                    89             9-19-2002
838)
Sigmund Road (T-917) at   15 tons                    Res. 1987- 003 3-11-1987
Salem Bible Church
Tollgate Road (T-837) at  15 tons                    Res. 1987- 003 3-11-1987
Swamp Road
Tollgate Road Bridge over 10 tons                    172            3-7-2024
Indian Creek
Yeakels Mill Road (T-416) 10 tons, except
Bridge at Sigmund Road    combination loads up to 18 100            10-21-2004
                          tons
 
   (A)   The appropriate weight limitation sign shall be erected and maintained
designating the weight limitation within 25 feet of each end of the restricted
area, and an advance informational sign shall be posted at the intersection
nearest each end of the restricted area so as to allow drivers to avoid the
restricted area.
   (B)   (1)   Any person operating a vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
the restricted areas in violation of this schedule, (except for Tollgate Road
Bridge) shall be guilty of a summary offense, and upon conviction, be sentenced
to pay a fine of $150, plus $150 for each 500 pounds, or part thereof, in
excess of 3,000 pounds over the maximum allowable weight.
      (2)   Any person operating a vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
Tollgate Road Bridge in violation of the schedule above, shall be guilty of a
summary offense, and upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $75, plus
$75 for each 500 pounds, or part thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds over the
maximum allowable weight
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Limited parking
      
III.   Snow emergency parking
      
IV.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
Road Restricted Area Ord. No. Date Passed
Road                Restricted Area                        Ord. No. Date Passed
                    Both sides extending for 125 feet from
Elgin Drive         its intersection with the centerline   46       8-3-1988
                    of Route 100
                    Southwest side within the Village of
Kings Highway South Zionsville from PP&L pole #23 to 600   38       2-5-1986
                    feet south of the railroad and Kings
                    Highway South
                    Northerly side, from its intersection
Pine Street         with Cedar Crest Boulevard until the   74       2-5-1998
                    Emmaus Borough border
                    From a distance of 170 feet east of
Pine Street*        the centerline of Oakwood Drive in an  94       8-21-2003
                    easterly direction to the Emmaus
                    Borough border
Raymond Street**    Either side, between Winfield Street   151      4-20-2017
                    and John Street
                    Either side, for a distance up to 120
Ridgeway Drive*     feet measured form the center of Kings 84       11-16-2000
                    Highway South
                    On its easterly side, 100 feet in each
Route 100           direction from the centerline of its   46       8-3-1988
                    intersection with Elgin Drive
 
   (A)   (1)   “No Parking” signs shall be erected in and along the restricted
area designated above, at reasonable intervals, to serve as public notice for
the parking prohibition.
      (2)   The township, through its Supervisors, agents and representatives,
shall have the right to tow and remove any violating motor vehicles from the
prohibited parking area, with the cost of the towing and removing being
sustained and paid for by the owner or owners of such motor vehicles.
      (3)   Any person who shall violate this schedule shall, upon conviction,
be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $25 in costs of prosecution for each
and every offense, and in default of payment shall be committed to the county
prison for a term not exceeding five days. Each day’s continuance of this
offense shall constitute a new offense.
   (B)   (1)   *The Superintendent of Roads shall establish appropriate signage
and/or markers to be erected to serve as public notice of the parking
prohibition.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this regulations
concerning Ridgeway Drive and Pine Street shall, upon conviction, be sentenced
to pay a fine not exceeding $15, together with the costs of prosecution, and,
in default of payment, shall be committed to the county prison for a term not
exceeding five days. Each days continuance of this offense shall constitute a
new offense.
      (3)   In addition to the above penalties, the township, through its
Supervisors, agents and representatives, including the state police, shall have
the right to tow and remove any violating motor vehicle from the restricted
parking area, with the cost of the towing and removal being sustained and paid
for by the owner or owners of such motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   **The Superintendent of Roads shall establish appropriate
signage and/or markers to be erected to serve as public notice of the parking
prohibition.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of regulations
concerning Raymond Street shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine
not exceeding $50, together with the costs of prosecution, and, in default of
payment, shall be committed to the county prison for a term not exceeding five
days. Each day’s continuance of this offense shall constitute a new offense.
      (3)   In addition to the above penalties, the township, through its
Supervisors, agents and representatives, including the state police, shall have
the right to tow and remove any violating motor vehicle from the restricted
parking area, with the cost of towing and removal being sustained and paid for
by the owner or owners of such motor vehicle.
(Ord. 38, passed 2-5-1986; Ord. 46, passed 8-3-1988; Ord. 74, passed 2-5-1998;
Ord. 80, passed 11-18-1999; Ord. 84, passed 11-16-2000; Ord. 94, passed 8-21-
2003; Ord. 151, passed 4-20-2017)
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or allow to remain
parked, for a period of time in excess of one hour, on weekdays between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., by any vehicle that does not have an approved
resident parking permit on Chris Drive, Miriam Drive east of Curis Drive, Leah
Drive east of Curis Drive and Oakwood Drive in the subdivisions known as Little
Lehigh Acres West Phases III and IV.
   (B)   A permit shall be issued upon application and payment of the
applicable fee only to the owner and operator of a motor vehicle who resides on
the aforementioned streets. A separate permit shall be required for each motor
vehicle. Eligibility for a permit shall be as follows.
      (1)   Residents. The resident must prove residency and vehicle ownership
or evidence of having a leased or company-owned vehicle. A separate application
shall be required for each vehicle and each application shall be accompanied by
a permit fee.
      (2)   Visitors. Special permits may be issued to visitors for a period of
time not to exceed 14 days. No resident shall be issued more than two visitor
permits at any time.
   (C)   The permit shall be displayed on the left side of the rear bumper. Any
resident vehicle on which is displayed a valid parking permit as provided for
herein shall be permitted to stand or be parked in the aforementioned streets
for which the permit has been issued without being limited by the time
restrictions established pursuant to this schedule. However, such resident’s
vehicle shall not be exempt from any other parking restrictions required or
established by law. Permits shall be valid for so long as the original
applicant resides on the street and owns the vehicle. If a resident sells or
otherwise transfers a vehicle bearing a permit parking sticker, he or she shall
remove the sticker before the transfer. If another vehicle is purchased, a new
application with the requisite fee must be made. The township is authorized to
revoke the residential parking permit for any person found to be in violation
of this schedule, and upon written notification thereof, the person shall
surrender such permit to the township.
   (D)   Appropriate signage and/or markers shall be erected to serve as public
notice of the special parking permit.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this schedule shall,
upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $15, together with
the costs of prosecution, and in default of payment, shall be committed to the
county prison for a term not exceeding five days. Each days continuance of this
offense shall constitute a new offense.
(Ord. 82, passed 9-7-2000)
SCHEDULE III. SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors has been apprised of parking situations in
and along David Drive which have had an adverse effect on the safety and well-
being of motorists and emergency vehicles using said road.
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors has conducted an extensive investigation of
the area in question to ascertain whether there has been a safety factor
involved in the subject area.
   (C)   The Board Of Supervisors, after study and review, has concluded that
preventative action is necessary because the parking of vehicles in and along
portions of David Drive unduly interferes with the free movement of traffic and
emergency vehicles and the parking of vehicles along all of David Drive in snow
emergencies unduly interferes with the free movement of traffic, snow plows and
emergency vehicles.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park motor vehicles on David Drive in the
areas highlighted on the map in Exhibit A.
   (E)   David Drive is hereby declared to be a snow emergency route. No
parking shall be permitted on David Drive during any snow emergency as declared
by the Township Manager, Superintendent of Roads and/or the Board of
Supervisors.
   (F)   Appropriate signage and/or markers shall be erected to serve as public
notice of the no parking and snow emergency route no parking prohibition.
   (G)   Any person who shall violate division (D) or (E) above shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $15, together with the
costs of prosecution, and in default of payment, shall be committed to the
county prison for a term not exceeding five days. Each day’s continuance of
this offense shall constitute a new offense.
   (H)   In addition to the above penalties, the township, through its
supervisors, agents and representatives, including the state police, shall have
the right to tow and remove violating motor vehicles from the prohibited
parking area, with the cost of the towing and removal being sustained and paid
for by the owner or owners of such motor vehicles.
   (I)   The provisions of this schedule shall be severable and if any of its
provisions shall be held to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
decisions shall not affect the validity of any of the remaining provisions of
this schedule.
   (J)   This schedule shall become effective immediately upon installation of
the no parking signs.
   Exhibit A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1035.jpg]
 
(Ord. 80, passed 11-18-1999)
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
 
Stop Street        Intersection or Direction of Travel Ord. No. Date Passed
                   Through Street
Acorn Drive        Railroad track  North and South     155      9-7-2017
Dillingsville Road Railroad track  East and West       155      9-7-2017
Scout Road         Railroad track  East and West       155      9-7-2017
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
90.01   Opening or cutting a public street
   
90.02   Prohibiting the construction of a drain, culvert, footwalk, drive or
driveway without a permit
   
90.03   Street number and street name
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 OPENING OR CUTTING A PUBLIC STREET.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of 53 P.S. § 1121, gas pipe, water
pipe, electric conduits or other piping, be laid upon or in, nor shall any
telephone, telegraph or electric light or power poles, or any coal tipples or
any other obstructions be erected upon or in any portion of a township road
except under such conditions, restrictions and regulations relating to the
installation and maintenance thereof, as may be prescribed in permits granted
by the township for such purpose.
   (B)   The application for a permit shall be on a form prescribed by the
township and submitted to the township in triplicate. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth by the
Department of Transportation for highway occupancy permits and restoration
charges. In addition, the applicant shall submit three copies of a sketch
showing such dimensions as the location of the intended facility, width of the
traveled roadway, right-of-way lines and a dimension to the nearest
intersecting street.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued to the applicant after all the aforementioned
requirements have been filed.
   (D)   Upon completion of the work, the applicant shall give written notice
thereof to the township.
   (E)   Upon completion of the work authorized by the permit, the township
shall inspect the work and, when necessary, enforce compliance with the
conditions, restrictions and regulations prescribed by the permit. Where any
settlement or defect in the work occurs, if the applicant shall fail to rectify
any such settlement or other defect, within 60 days after written notice from
the township to do so, the township may do the work and shall impose upon the
applicant the cost thereof, together with an additional 20% of such cost.
(Ord. 23, passed 6-5-1974) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 PROHIBITING THE CONSTRUCTION OF A DRAIN, CULVERT, FOOTWALK, DRIVE OR
DRIVEWAY WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall grade, construct, install or
erect a drain, culvert, footwalk, drive or driveway, or other means of ingress
or egress, or affecting discharge or passage of drainage water onto or along a
township road unless and until the township has granted a permit for such
grading, construction, installation or erection. This provision applies to both
existing and proposed township roads.
   (B)   (1)   Application for such permit shall be made by the owner or
occupier, or by his or her contractor or agent, in writing, on forms provided
by the township and in accordance with such rules and regulations as may be
established by the township. There shall be appended to each application a
drawing or plan showing the outlines of the property affected with existing
improvements thereon, existing drains, culverts, footwalks, drives or
driveways, with the proposed drain, culvert, footwalk, drive or driveway
proposed to be added, and the relationship of the foregoing to the township
road, particularly with relationship to the effect on the drainage of said
road.
      (2)   The Superintendent of the Roads, or if there be no person occupying
said position, then the Roadmaster(s) shall heretofore issue all permits
required under this section, and perform all inspections required prior to the
issuance of such permits.
      (3)   In the event that the Superintendent of the Roads, or the
Roadmaster(s), as the case may be, is unavailable, then the Township Engineer
shall issue all permits required pursuant to this section, and perform all
inspections necessary prior to issuance.
   (C)   The costs of filing such application and permit to be issued thereon,
and the cost of any inspection deemed necessary by the Supervisors shall be
determined according to a schedule of fees which will be adopted by the
Supervisors by resolution and all such fees and costs shall be paid into the
township treasury.
   (D)   The Supervisors may alter plans filed with the application, and
specify any changes or modifications of any kind which they may deem necessary,
and make its approval of the granting of any permits subject to any such
alterations, changes or modifications. Said plans shall also be required to be
in compliance with such specifications and standards as may be hereafter
adopted by resolution by the Board of Supervisors of the township.
   (E)   All grading, construction, installation and erection shall be in
strict compliance with the plans and specifications on the basis of which the
permit is granted.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, a TOWNSHIP ROAD shall include any road
which has been dedicated to the township and maintained by the township, and
any road which will be dedicated to the township upon construction completion
by the developer.
   (G)   All applications for a permit for a driveway shall be accompanied by
an application as follows:
Driveway Permit Application
Drive and/or Access Permit No.                         Date             
This Certifies That
_____________________________________________________________      _________________________
Name                                    Phone No.
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
Address
Has applied for permission to construct a driveway or
_________________________________________________________________________________________________
at                                                
   Location of Driveway
Application for such permit shall be made by the owner or occupier, or by his
contractor or agent, in writing, on forms provided by the Township and in
accordance with such rules and regulations as may be established by the
Township. There shall be appended to each application a drawing or plan showing
the outlines of the property affected with existing improvements thereon,
existing drains, culverts, footwalks, drives or driveways, with the proposed
drain, culvert, footwalk, drive or driveway, proposed to be added, and the
relationship of the foregoing to the Township road, particularly with
relationship to the effect on the drainage of said road. The applicant shall
also state the type of material to be used on the driveway.
The Applicant named above has been granted permission to construct a driveway
at the location stated, subject to the terms of the Upper Milford Township
Ordinance No. 28 relating thereto and conditions imposed by the Board of
Supervisors of Upper Milford Township.
                  Approved by                              
                  Title                                  
                  Date                                  
Permit Issued                  
__________________________________________
Shirley M. Batman, Secretary/Treasurer
Attachment - Driveway Details
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1037.jpg]
 
(Ord. 28, passed 6-6-1979; Res. 1986-010, passed 11-5-1986; Res. 1987-005,
passed 4-1-1987; Ord. 42, passed 4-1-1987; Ord. 42A, passed 3-7-1990) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.03 STREET NUMBER AND STREET NAME.
   Each property located within the township shall have a street number and
street name. The Board of Supervisors and/or the United States Postal Service
shall notify each property owner, as soon as possible, of their street number
and street name.
(Res. 1989-011, passed - -1989)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or utility which shall violate any of
the provisions of §
90.01 shall be subject, upon conviction before a District Justice, to pay a
fine of not more than $100 and cost of prosecution, and in default of the
payment of such fine and costs to imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than five days.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and conditions of
any permit issued in §
90.02, including any regulations applicable thereto, shall upon conviction
thereof before a District Justice be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $300 together with costs of prosecution, or in default
thereof to undergo imprisonment in county prison for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 23, passed 6-5-1974; Ord. 28, passed 6-6-1979; Ord. 42, passed 4-1-1987;
Ord. 42A, passed 3-7-1990)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   General park rules and regulations
   
91.02   Churchview Park rules and regulations
   
91.03   Jasper Park and Lenape Park rules and regulations
   
91.04   Field use rules and regulations
   
91.05   Harold Fulmer Nature Preserve rules and regulations
   
91.06   Park pavilion rental/reservation policy
   
91.07   Arrowhead Park rules and regulations
   
91.08   Municipal Center property rules and regulations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 GENERAL PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby adopts the rules
for the use by the public of all parks and recreational grounds and the
facilities and amusements connected therewith, owned and/or operated by the
township, for the use of the public.
      (2)   These regulations are as follows.
         (a)   Automobiles may be driven and parked only in driving areas and
areas specifically designated for parking, and at no time shall motor vehicles
of any description be permitted on the lawn or seeded areas without the express
permission of the Board of Supervisors. Parking provided for park visitors
only. No vehicle maintenance to be conducted.
         (b)   No littering or dumping shall be allowed and refuse shall be
placed in the proper receptacles for recyclables and non-recyclables. Refuse is
that which is generated in the park; no disposal of household refuse.
         (c)   Fires shall be built only in fireplaces provided by the township
for such purposes, and areas around the fireplaces and picnic tables must be
kept clean at all times. Any persons building fires for cooking purposes or
otherwise shall be responsible for them being extinguished prior to their
departure from the area of the fireplace.
         (d)   No person shall be allowed to cut, mutilate, remove, take or
carry away any trees, shrubs, flowers or plants of any nature whatsoever unless
it be with the specific permission of the Board of Supervisors of the township.
No excavation by hand, tools or equipment is permitted.
         (e)   No mineral deposit of any nature whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, jasper, shall be removed from the parks or recreational facilities.
         (f)   Consumption of alcohol is prohibited. Use of indecent, profane
and improper language is not tolerated. Disorderly conduct of any type will
lead to prosecution.
         (g)   Pets are permitted in the parks; however, the same shall be the
absolute responsibility of its owner, and all dogs shall be required to be on a
leash and under proper and adequate control, including the proper removal of
pet feces.
         (h)   No horses or ponies will be permitted on lawn or seeded areas
but shall be limited only to driving areas and/or appropriate bridle paths as
may be constructed by the township.
         (i)   Persons picnicking on the premises are responsible for the
policing of the picnic area, and washing of dishes at the drinking fountains is
prohibited. Picnic tables are not to be removed from pavilion.
         (j)   The removing, defacing or destroying of any sign, poster,
fixture, building or any on the premises is expressly prohibited.
         (k)   The use of firearms, archery, air rifles or any device capable
of discharging a projectile is strictly prohibited. No hunting, trapping or
taking of wildlife is permitted in park areas.
         (l)   Special group activities are permitted upon the securing of a
permit for the same from the township office.
         (m)   No political or religious demonstrations or rallies shall be
allowed or placards, advertisement, public notices or personal cards shall be
distributed, posted or affixed in any manner in park areas other than notices
from the governing body of the township.
         (n)   No bicycle riding or the driving of unlicensed recreational
vehicles or snowmobiles is allowed in the parks at any time. Bicycles must be
placed in the racks provided at park entrances.
         (o)   The Youth Association shall have priority to use the athletic
fields for its regularly scheduled games or make up games.
         (p)   Township parks shall be drug free areas.
         (q)   Persons shall be permitted on the park premises between dawn and
dusk prevailing time only.
   (B)   The regulations shall be posted in conspicuous places in the parks or
recreational grounds located within the township.
(Ord. 73, passed 9-4-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 CHURCHVIEW PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Automobiles may be driven and parked only in driving areas
specifically designated for parking, and at no time shall motor vehicles of any
description be permitted on the lawn or seeded areas without the express
permission of the Board of Supervisors. Parking provided for park visitors
only. No vehicle maintenance to be conducted.
   (B)   No littering or dumping shall be allowed and refuse shall be placed in
the proper receptacles for recyclables and non-recyclables. Refuse is that
which is generated in the park; no disposal of household refuse.
   (C)   No outdoor fires for cooking purposes or otherwise, are permitted.
   (D)   No person shall be allowed to cut, mutilate, remove, take or carry
away any trees, shrubs, flowers or plants of any nature whatsoever unless it be
with the specific permission of the Board of Supervisors of the township. No
excavation by hand, tools or equipment is permitted.
   (E)   No mineral deposit of any nature whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, jasper, shall be removed from the parks or recreational facilities.
   (F)   Consumption of alcohol is prohibited. Use of indecent, profane and
improper language is not tolerated. Disorderly conduct of any type will lead to
prosecution.
   (G)   Pets are permitted in the parks; however, the same shall be the
absolute responsibility of its owner, and all dogs shall be required to be on a
leash and under proper and adequate control, including the proper removal of
pet feces.
   (H)   The removing, defacing or destructing of any sign, poster, fixture,
building or any other property on the premises is expressly prohibited.
   (I)   The use of firearms, archery, air rifles or any device capable of
discharging a projectile is strictly prohibited. No hunting, trapping or taking
of wildlife is permitted in park areas unless specifically carried out by an
officer of the law or other authorized person performing his or her assigned or
authorized duty. (This provision shall not apply to any authorized officer of
the law who may carry and use firearms in the discharge of their duties).
   (J)   No political or religious demonstrations or rallies shall be allowed
or placards, advertisement, public notices or personal cards shall be
distributed, posted or affixed in any manner in park areas other than notices
from the governing body of the township.
   (K)   All bicycle or other wheeled activity shall be conducted only on paved
areas. Helmets and proper safety equipment are required. No motorized vehicles,
unlicensed recreational vehicles, snowmobiles or the like are permitted.
   (L)   Township parks shall be drug free areas.
   (M)   Smoking on the trails is prohibited.
   (N)   Persons shall be permitted on the park premises between dawn and dusk
prevailing time only.
(Ord. 78, passed 7-2-1998; Ord. 135, passed 3-7-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 JASPER PARK AND LENAPE PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Automobiles may be driven and parked only in driving areas
specifically designated for parking, and at no time shall motor vehicles of any
description be permitted on the lawn or seeded areas without the express
permission of the Board of Supervisors. Parking provided for park visitors
only. No vehicle maintenance to be conducted.
   (B)   No littering or dumping shall be allowed and refuse shall be placed in
the proper receptacles for recyclables and non-recyclables. Refuse is that
which is generated in the park; no disposal of household refuse.
   (C)   Fires shall be built only in fireplaces provided by the township for
such purpose, and areas around the fireplaces and picnic tables must be kept
clean at all times. Any persons building fires for cooking purposes or
otherwise shall be responsible for them being extinguished prior to their
departure from the area of the fireplace.
   (D)   No person shall be allowed to cut, mutilate, remove, take or carry
away any trees, shrubs, flowers or plants of any nature whatsoever unless it be
with the specific permission of the Board of Supervisors of the township. No
excavation by hand, tools or equipment is permitted.
   (E)   No mineral deposit of any nature whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, jasper, shall be removed from the parks or recreational facilities.
   (F)   Consumption of alcohol is prohibited. Use of indecent, profane and
improper language is not tolerated. Disorderly conduct of any type will lead to
prosecution.
   (G)   Pets are permitted in the parks; however, the same shall be the
absolute responsibility of its owner, and all dogs shall be required to be on a
leash and under proper and adequate control, including the proper removal of
pet feces.
   (H)   Horses or ponies will only be permitted on appropriate bridle paths or
other areas as designated, constructed or approved by the township. No horses
or ponies will be permitted on any lawn area designated as an athletic field.
   (I)   Persons picnicking on the premises are responsible for the policing of
the picnic area, and washing of dishes at the drinking fountains is prohibited.
Picnic tables are not to be removed from pavilion.
   (J)   The removing, defacing or destructing of any sign, poster, fixture,
building or any other property on the premises is expressly prohibited.
   (K)   The use of firearms, archery, air rifles or any device capable of
discharging a projectile is strictly prohibited. No hunting, trapping or taking
of wildlife is permitted in park areas unless specifically carried out by an
officer of the law or other authorized person performing his or her assigned or
authorized duty. (This provision shall not apply to any authorized officer or
other authorized officer of the law who may carry and use firearms in the
discharge of their duties).
   (L)   Special group activities are permitted upon the securing of a permit
for the same from the Upper Milford office.
   (M)   No political or religious demonstrations or rallies shall be allowed
or placards, advertisement, public notices or personal cards shall be
distributed, posted or affixed in any manner in park areas other than notices
from the governing body of the township.
   (N)   No bicycle riding or the driving of unlicensed recreational vehicles
or snowmobiles is allowed in the parks at any time. Bicycles must be placed in
the racks provided at park entrances.
   (O)   Township parks shall be drug free areas.
   (P)   Persons shall be permitted on the park premises between dawn and dusk
prevailing time only.
(Ord. 135, passed 3-7-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FIELD USE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The township field use rules and regulations are for the purpose of
regulating organized use of the township’s various athletic fields and park
facilities. These rules and regulations provide written procedures in order to
implement the field use in a fair and equitable manner for the enjoyment of all
park patrons while also protecting the township’s assets and minimizing the
township’s liabilities.
   (B)   These rules and regulations are established to regulate organized
group activities such as leagues of the Upper Milford Youth Association (UMYA),
other youth leagues and organized adult leagues and teams, and does not pertain
to unorganized groups or people using the township’s recreational facilities.
All field scheduling of organized leagues or teams shall be made through the
designated township field scheduler. Scheduled teams have priority to field use
over non-scheduled unorganized groups or individuals.
      (1)   UMYA shall always receive first priority when scheduling organized
league activities. This shall apply to all activities organized by UMYA. Upon
finalization of the UMYA schedules, other groups may be accommodated by the
township field scheduler.
      (2)   Organized youth leagues, youth teams, youth camps or other similar
groups not affiliated with UMYA will be offered field use scheduling if
available, and additionally with the conditions set forth in divisions (B)(2)
(a) through (B)(2)(d) below. The term AFFILIATED shall mean any organization
which permits UMYA to use its fields free of charge.
         (a)   Each team or group wishing to use the field(s) shall pay $75 per
use, or such other amount as may be subsequently established by resolution of
the Board of Supervisors of the township, which includes the use of the
pavilion precluding another team or group from using the pavilion.
         (b)   Prior to being scheduled for use, the league, team or group must
provide a $500 security fee, or such other amount as may be subsequently
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the township, to cover
any field or facility damage. The security fee will be refunded in full at the
end of the scheduled season if no damage has been noted. The township, in the
event of damage to the field or facilities as a direct cause by members of the
team or league, will use the security fund to repair any damage.
         (c)   The youth league, youth team, youth camp or similar group must
provide the township with a certificate of insurance naming the township as an
additional insured for coverage’s as follows:
 
General liability*       $1,000,000 aggregate, $500,000 per occurrence
Medical/injury expenses* $7,000 per occurrence
* No athletic activity exclusion allowed
 
         (d)   Youth leagues, teams, camps or similar groups not affiliated
with UMYA must provide their own field marking equipment and material including
bases. No township equipment or material will be provided.
      (3)   Adult leagues or adult teams organized under other leagues will
receive field use allocation only after the youth leagues are scheduled and
additionally with the following conditions.
         (a)   Each team wishing to use the field(s) shall pay $75 per use, or
such other amount as may be subsequently established by resolution of the Board
of Supervisors of the township, which includes the use of the pavilion
precluding another team or group from using the pavilion.
         (b)   Prior to being scheduled for use an adult team must provide a
$500 security fee, or such other amount as may be subsequently established by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the township, to cover any field or
facility damage. The security fee will be refunded in full at the end of the
scheduled season if no damage has been noted. The township, in the event of
damage to the field or facilities as a direct cause by members of the team or
league, will use the security fund to repair any damage.
         (c)   The adult league or adult team must provide the township with a
certificate of insurance naming the township as an additional insured for
coverage’s as follows:
 
General liability*       $1,000,000 aggregate, $500,000 per occurrence
Medical/injury expenses* $7,000 per occurrence
* No athletic activity exclusion allowed
 
         (d)   Leagues or teams not affiliated with UMYA must provide their own
field marking equipment and material including bases. No township equipment or
material will be provided.
      (4)   Any organizations, leagues or teams failing to abide by all
township rules and regulations after fair warning will have their schedule
revoked and will not be allowed to use the park facilities.
      (5)   All persons, using the township’s athletic field, are also required
to comply with the township park rules and regulations.
(Ord. 135, passed 3-7-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 HAROLD FULMER NATURE PRESERVE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of the township hereby adopt the following
rules and regulations for the Harold G. Fulmer Nature Preserve for the use and
enjoyment by the public.
      (1)   Automobiles may be driven and parked only in the driving areas
specifically designated for parking, and at no time shall motor vehicles of any
description be permitted on the lawn or seeded areas without the express
permission of the Board of Supervisors. Parking provided for park visitors
only. No vehicle maintenance to be conducted.
      (2)   No littering or dumping shall be allowed and refuse shall be placed
in the proper receptacles for recyclables and non-recyclables. Refuse is that
which is generated in the park; no disposal of household refuse.
      (3)   No outdoor fires for cooking purposes or otherwise are permitted
other than facility(s) specifically as may be provided by the township.
      (4)   No person shall be allowed to cut, mutilate, remove, take or carry
away any trees, shrubs, flowers or plants of any nature whatsoever unless it be
with the specific permission of the Board of Supervisors. No excavation by
hand, tools or equipment is permitted.
      (5)   No mineral deposit of any nature whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, jasper, shall be removed from the property(s).
      (6)   Consumption of alcohol is prohibited. Use of indecent, profane and
improper language is not tolerated. Disorderly conduct of any type will lead to
prosecution.
      (7)   Pets are permitted in the parks; however, the same shall be the
absolute responsibility of its owner, and all dogs shall be required to be on a
leash and under proper and adequate control, including the proper removal of
pet feces.
      (8)   The removing, defacing or destructing of any sign, poster, fixture,
building or any other property on the premises is expressly prohibited.
      (9)   The use of firearms, archery, air rifles or any device capable of
discharging a projectile is strictly prohibited and no hunting, trapping or
taking of wildlife is permitted in park areas unless specifically carried out
by an officer of the law or other authorized person performing his or her
assigned or authorized duty.
      (10)   No political or religious demonstrations or rallies shall be
allowed or placards, advertisement, public notices or personal cards shall be
distributed, posted or affixed in any manner in park areas other than notices
from the Board of Supervisors.
      (11)   All bicycle or other wheeled activity shall be conducted only on
designated areas. Helmets and proper safety equipment are required. No
motorized vehicles, unlicensed recreational vehicles, snowmobiles or the like,
are permitted. (Not including vehicles and equipment associated with
agricultural practices or other such motorized equipment as may be necessary
for property maintenance.)
      (12)   Township parks shall be drug free areas.
      (13)   Persons shall be permitted on the park premises between dawn and
dusk prevailing time only.
      (14)   No swimming or boating shall be allowed.
   (B)   The rules and regulations shall be posted in conspicuous places at the
properties.
(Ord. 150, passed 12-29-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PARK PAVILION RENTAL/RESERVATION POLICY.
   (A)   The person making the reservation shall be deemed the responsible
party and must be 18 years of age or older.
   (B)   The person making the reservation must provide the applicable
information to the township staff including, but not limited to, the name of
group, contact person, phone number, address of contact person, number of
persons expected, date desired and brief description of their event or
function.
   (C)   The responsible party must acknowledge, sign and return the township’s
indemnity agreement, along with their payment of the reservation or rental fee
as established by the Board of Supervisors, within 14 days of making said
reservation, or the reservation will expire. (This fee is for reserving and use
of the pavilion, and does not reserve the ball field or other park amenities.)
   (D)   Reservations may be made in person at the Township Office, located at
5831 King’s Highway South, P.O. Box 210, Old Zionsville, Pennsylvania 18068-
0210, or by calling (610)966-3223 during normal business hours, Monday through
Friday from 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m.
   (E)   The Board of Supervisors waive the established fee for all non-profit
organizations, which is officially recognized as 501(3) organizations based in
the township for all seasonal non-holiday weekdays.
   (F)   The person reserving the pavilion 12 months in advance must
acknowledge that he or she will be responsible to pay any difference between
the current fee and any new fee established by the Board of Supervisors, at the
beginning of the new year.
   (G)   Refund policy: the township will refund the fee paid, only under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   In the event that the township closes the park for an emergency,
safety or other reasons; and/or
      (2)   In the event that the responsible party requests in writing, a
cancellation of the reservation or rental, not less than 30 days prior to the
date of the reservation or rental, and subject to, that the township is able to
find a replacement party or group for the date.
   (H)   The Board of Supervisors reserves the right to deny any party or group
to reserve or rent a pavilion based on their past history or conduct while
using the township’s facilities.
   (I)   All current township park rules and regulations remain in effect,
along with any other agency’s rules and regulations.
   (J)   Township staff will provide the applicant with a copy of the most
recent park rules and regulations.
(Res. 2005-022, passed 5-19-2005)
§ 91.07 ARROWHEAD PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Automobiles may be driven and parked only in driving areas
specifically designated for parking, and at no time shall motor vehicles of any
description be permitted on the lawn or seeded areas without the express
permission of the Board of Supervisors. Parking provided for park visitors
only. No vehicle maintenance to be conducted or overnight parking.
   (B)   No littering or dumping shall be allowed, and refuse shall be placed
in the proper receptacles for recyclables and non-recyclables. Refuse is that
which is generated in the park; no disposal of household refuse.
   (C)   No fires or burning of any kind, cooking or otherwise, are permitted.
   (D)   No person shall be allowed to cut, mutilate, remove, take or carry
away any trees, shrubs, flowers or plants of any nature whatsoever unless it be
with the specific permission of the Board of Supervisors. No excavation by
hand, tools or equipment is permitted.
   (E)   No mineral deposit of any nature whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, jasper, shall be removed from the property(s).
   (F)   Consumption of alcohol is prohibited. Use of indecent, profane and
improper language is not tolerated. Disorderly conduct of any type will lead to
prosecution.
   (G)   Pets are permitted in the parks; however, the same shall be the
absolute responsibility of its owner, and all dogs shall be required to be on a
leash and under proper and adequate control, including the proper removal of
pets’ feces.
   (H)   The removing, defacing or destructing of any sign, poster, fixture,
building or any other property on the premises is expressly prohibited.
   (I)   The use of firearms, archery, air rifles or any device capable of
discharging a projectile is strictly prohibited. No hunting, trapping or taking
of wildlife is permitted in park areas unless specifically carried out by an
officer of the law or other authorized person performing his or her assigned or
authorized duty.
   (J)   No rallies of any kind shall be allowed, and no placards,
advertisement, public notices or personal cards shall be distributed, posted or
affixed in any manner in park areas other than notices from the Board of
Supervisors.
   (K)   All bicycle or other wheeled activity shall be conducted only on
designated areas. Helmets and proper safety equipment are required. No
motorized vehicles, unlicensed recreational vehicles, snowmobiles or the like
are permitted. (Not including vehicles and equipment associated with
agricultural practices or other such motorized equipment as may be necessary
for property maintenance.)
   (L)   Township parks shall be drug free areas.
   (M)   Persons shall be permitted on the park premises between dawn and dusk
prevailing time only.
   (N)   No swimming or residential sprinklers shall be allowed within the
park.
(Ord. 167, passed 11-17-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 MUNICIPAL CENTER PROPERTY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors of Upper Milford Township hereby adopt the
following rules and regulations for the property for the use and enjoyment by
the public, as set out in division (C) below.
   (B)   The rules and regulations shall be posted in conspicuous places on the
property.
   (C)   Municipal center property rules and regulations.
      (1)   Automobiles may be driven and parked only in driving areas
specifically designated for parking, and at no time shall motor vehicles of any
description be permitted on the lawn or seeded areas without the express
permission of the Board of Supervisors. No vehicle maintenance shall be
conducted on the premises.
      (2)   No littering or dumping shall be allowed and refuse shall be placed
in the proper receptacles for recyclables and non-recyclables. Refuse is that
which is generated in the park; no disposal of household refuse.
      (3)   No outdoor fires for cooking purposes or otherwise.
      (4)   No person shall be allowed to cut, mutilate, remove, take or carry
away any trees, shrubs, flowers, or plants of any nature whatsoever unless it
be with the specific permission of the Board of Supervisors. No excavation by
hand, tools, or equipment is permitted.
      (5)   No mineral deposit of any nature whatsoever, including, but not
limited to Jasper, shall be removed from the property(s).
      (6)   Consumption of alcohol is prohibited. Use of indecent, profane, and
improper language is not tolerated. Disorderly conduct of any type will lead to
prosecution.
      (7)   Pets are permitted on the property; however, the same shall be the
absolute responsibility
of its owner, and all dogs shall be required to be on a leash and under proper
and adequate control, including the proper removal of pets' feces.
      (8)   The removing, defacing or destructing of any sign, poster, fixture,
building or any other property on the premises is expressly prohibited.
      (9)   The use of firearms, archery, air rifles, or any device capable of
discharging a projectile is strictly prohibited and no hunting, trapping, or
taking of wildlife is permitted in park areas unless specifically carried out
by an officer of the law or other authorized person performing his assigned or
authorized duty.
      (10)   No political or religious demonstrations or rallies shall be
allowed or placards, advertisement, public notices or personal cards shall be
distributed, posted or affixed in any manner other than notices from the Board
of Supervisors.
      (11)   All bicycle or other wheeled activity shall be conducted only on
designated areas. Helmets and proper safety equipment are required. No
motorized vehicles, unlicensed recreational vehicles, snowmobiles or the like,
are permitted. (Not including vehicles and equipment associated with
agricultural practices or other such motorized equipment as may be necessary
for property maintenance).
      (12)   The property is a drug free area.
      (13)   Recreation area users shall be permitted on the premises between
dawn and dusk prevailing time only.
(Ord. 171, passed 8-3-2023)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the rules listed in §
91.01 shall be guilty of a summary offense, and be sentenced to a term of
imprisonment which shall be fixed by the Court at not more than 90 days, be
fined up to a maximum of $1,000, be directed to make restitution to the
township, be responsible for all reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred
by the township as a result of the prosecution and be responsible for all costs
of prosecution.
   (C)   Any person who violates the rules and regulations listed in §§
91.02 through
91.04, including the field use rules and regulations, shall be guilty of a
summary offense, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which shall be fixed by
the Court at not more than 90 days, and/or be fined in an amount not to exceed
$1,000 per violation. In addition, any person found guilty of a summary offense
shall be directed to make restitution to the township, be responsible for all
reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred by the township as a result of
the prosecution, and be responsible for all costs of prosecution.
   (D)   Any person who violates the rules and regulations in §§
91.05 or
91.07, including any field use rules and regulations, shall be guilty of a
summary offense, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which shall be fixed by
the Court at not more than 90 days, and/or be fined in an amount not to exceed
$1,000 per violation. In addition, any person found guilty of a summary offense
shall be directed to make restitution to the township, be responsible for all
reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred by the township as a result of
the prosecution, and be responsible for all costs of prosecution.
   (E)   Any person who violates the rules and regulations of §
91.08 shall be guilty of a summary offense, be sentenced to a term of
imprisonment which shall be fixed by the court at not more than 90 days, and/or
be fined in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per violation. In addition, any
person found guilty of a summary offense shall be directed to make restitution
to the township, be responsible for all reasonable attorney's fees and expenses
incurred by the township as a result of the prosecution and be responsible for
all costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 73, passed 9-4-1997; Ord. 135, passed 3-7-2013; Ord. 150, passed 12-29-
2016; Ord. 167, passed 11-17-2022; Ord. 171, passed 8-3-2023)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Alarm Systems
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Applicability
   
92.03   Registration
   
92.04   Maintenance
Key Lock Box
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Applicability
   
92.17   Installation
   
92.18   Maintenance
   
92.19   Required contents of key lock box
   
92.20   Jurisdictional fire department responsibilities
   
92.21   Limitations on liability
Open Burning
   
92.35   Title
   
92.36   Definitions
   
92.37   Prohibitions
   
92.38   Permitted burning
   
92.39   Permitted burning standards
   
92.40   Burning of materials generated by a commercial, industrial or other
similar nonresidential use
   
92.41   Additional burning standards
   
92.42   Board of Supervisors may prohibit
   
92.43   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Approved container
FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM. A communication to a township volunteer fire company indicating that
a fire has occurred or is occurring.
   COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE. Any building or facility, either open or enclosed,
used and sustained for commercial purposes and not intended for residential
use. COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, office buildings,
community centers, personal service businesses, industrial property, financial
institutions, schools and educational facilities, cultural facilities, medical
centers, hotels/motels, malls, retail stores, theaters, restaurants, taverns,
shopping centers, places of worship, farmland, utility buildings, warehouses
and garages.
   FALSE FIRE ALARM. The activation of any fire alarm system not caused by
heat, smoke, or fire and results in a response by a township volunteer fire
company. The term does not include an alarm caused by naturally occurring
weather, seismic or other natural condition; interruption of electrical or
telephone service to the alarm user; or malicious criminal activity.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. Equipment which automatically actuates a fire alarm when
the detecting element is exposed to fire, smoke, abnormal rise or decrease in
temperature or activation of a sprinkler system or manually activated device.
   JURISDICTIONAL FIRE CHIEF. An appointed or elected top ranking or commanding
officer of a township volunteer fire company or his or her duly recognized
designee.
   NUISANCE FIRE ALARM. The activation of any fire alarm system caused by
mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation, lack of proper
maintenance or for any other undetermined cause of activation resulting in a
response by a township volunteer fire company.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, unincorporated association
or other legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. A structure consisting of one or more dwelling units
intended to be occupied by one or more persons as separate living quarters and
containing sanitary facilities and kitchen facilities.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Upper Milford.
(Ord. 143, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 92.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The contents of this subchapter applies to any commercial structure or
residential structure where an automatic fire alarm system is installed.
(Ord. 143, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 92.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall install a new fire alarm system without first
registering it with the township. Registration shall be deemed a precondition
for the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or use and occupancy permit.
   (B)   No change in occupancy for a commercial structure having a fire alarm
system may occur without first registering it with the township. Registration
shall be deemed a precondition for the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
or use and occupancy permit.
   (C)   Any existing fire alarm system shall be registered within ten days of
the first response of a township volunteer fire company responding to a fire
alarm system if the same was not previously registered.
   (D)   Any person making a change to a fire alarm system shall promptly
notify the township.
(Ord. 143, passed 11-19-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of the structure shall be responsible for the care, maintenance
and operation of a fire alarm system.
(Ord. 143, passed 11-19-2015)
KEY LOCK BOX
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM TAMPER SWITCH. A switch, installed within the key lock box, which is
wired to the alarm system of a building, activating the alarm upon any opening
or tampering of the key lock box.
   AUTOMATIC DIALER. A device that automatically dials and relays a prerecorded
message to a central station or the Fire Department.
   AUTOMATIC FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM. A system or assembly of piping, valves,
controls and sprinklers which are designed and installed to comply with
National Fire Protection Association standards, which utilize water, foam, CO2
, or other gas to automatically react to suppress fire.
   CENTRAL STATION. An office of a private company to which remote alarm and
supervisory signaling devices are transmitted and where personnel are in
attendance at all times to supervise the circuits and investigate signals.
   COMMERCIAL. Related to, or used in, the buying, selling and offering of
goods and services. Not related to residential uses or structures.
   FIRE ALARM CONTROL PANEL. The controlling component of a fire alarm system.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. Equipment which automatically actuates a fire alarm when
the detecting element is exposed to fire, smoke, abnormal rise or decrease in
temperature or activation or a sprinkler system or manually activated device.
   FIRE PROTECTIVE DEVICE. Any device aiding in the prevention or notification
of a fire.
   INDUSTRIAL. Relating to industry, of or relating to factories, the people
who work in factories, or the things made in factories.
   JURISDICTIONAL FIRE CHIEF. An appointed or elected top ranking or commanding
officer of an township volunteer fire company or his or her duly recognized
designee.
   KEY LOCK BOX. A locking metal container that is UL approved and designated
to hold keys for emergency entry into buildings, which can be opened by a key
to be kept by the township fire departments for emergency use only.
   LOCK BOX DOCUMENT VAULT. A locking metal container that is UL approved and
designated to hold important documents (i.e., material safety data sheets),
which can be opened by a key to be kept by the township fire departments for
emergency use only.
   MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET. Information intended to provide workers and
emergency personnel with procedures for handling or working with that substance
in a safe manner, and includes information such as physical data (melting
point, boiling point, flash point and the like), toxicity, health effects,
first aid, reactivity, storage, disposal, protective equipment and spill-
handling procedures.
   OWNER. Any person or entity which owns, leases, manages and/or is in control
of a structure, building, facility or property.
   PULL STATION. An active fire protection device, usually wall-mounted, that,
when activated, initiates an alarm on a fire alarm system. It is activated by
pulling a handle down, which completes a circuit and locks the handle in the
activated position, sending an alarm to the fire alarm control panel.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, facility or human-made object.
   UL (UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES). An American worldwide Occupational Safety
and Health Administration approved safety consulting and certification company,
participating in the safety analysis of new technologies.
(Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 92.16 APPLICABILITY.
   The owner of the following structures shall install and maintain a key lock
box at or near the main entrance, or other location as required by the
jurisdictional Fire Department Chief:
   (A)   All newly constructed commercial structures containing a fire alarm
system that uses an automatic dialer or an automatic fire suppression system;
   (B)   All newly constructed multi-family residential structures with four or
more units in which access is restricted by locked doors, and have a common
corridor for access to the living quarters, mechanical, and/or electrical
rooms;
   (C)   All newly constructed governmental structures, school facilities,
medical and nursing care facilities;
   (D)   Any existing commercial or industrial structures undertaking
additions, alterations, repairs, when the estimated value is $100,000 or
greater;
   (E)   Commercial and industrial structures and/or properties identified by
the jurisdictional Fire Chief; and
   (F)   All newly constructed structures subject to these requirements shall
have the key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit.
(Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All costs of purchasing and installing, along with any cost associated
with implementation of the key lock box at a specific property, will be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (B)   Ordering and purchasing of a key lock box are available online at
www.knoxbox.com.
   (C)   All key lock boxes shall be installed to the left or right of the main
entry door, unless otherwise approved by the jurisdictional Fire Chief.
   (D)   All key lock boxes shall be installed a minimum of four feet and not
more than six feet from the ground to the center of the box, unless otherwise
approved by the jurisdictional Fire Chief.
   (E)   The key lock box shall be installed with an alarm tamper switch that
connects to an intrusion/burglar alarm system/fire alarm control panel, when
provided.
   (F)   All realty and/or property with an electronic security gate shall have
the key lock box installed outside of the gate. In lieu of having the interior
keys at the outside key lock box location, a second key lock box may be located
within the building by the main entrance at the same height and location as
referenced in divisions (A) through (E) above, if approved by the
jurisdictional Fire Chief.
   (G)   No instructions, displays or signs shall be located by the key lock
box which would allow intruders to access the box without assistance.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the owner of the key lock box
shall contact the jurisdictional Fire Chief prior to mounting the lock box for
approval of the proposed location of the lock box, and to allow the
jurisdictional Fire Chief to observe the installation of the lock box to ensure
proper location and installation. The approved location for the installation of
the lock box shall be of the complete discretion of the Jurisdictional Fire
Chief.
(Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 92.18 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any structure or property required to have a key lock box
shall ensure that the keys contained within the lock box are current and
provide access to all required areas within the structure or property, and
immediately place the keys for any locks, doors, gates or panels within the
lock box.
   (B)   The owner of any structure or property required to have a key lock box
shall provide the Jurisdictional Fire Chief with current contact information
including the owner’s name; address; and facsimile, telephone, mobile phone and
page numbers. Any change in information must be provided in writing to the
jurisdictional Fire Chief at least 48 hours in advance of the change occurring,
along with the date such change will take place.
(Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 92.19 REQUIRED CONTENTS OF KEY LOCK BOX.
   (A)   Keys to locked points of ingress or egress, whether on the interior or
exterior of such buildings;
   (B)   Keys to any mechanical and boiler rooms;
   (C)   Keys to any electrical rooms;
   (D)   Keys to any elevator and its control room;
   (E)   Keys to any fire alarm panels;
   (F)   Keys to any fenced or secured areas on the property;
   (G)   Keys (special) to re-set pull stations or other fire protective
devices;
   (H)   Keys to any other areas as requested by the jurisdictional Fire
Department Chief;
   (I)   Locations of all utility and fire protection controls (electric, gas,
water, sprinkler/fire suppression control valves);
   (J)   A card containing a minimum of three emergency contact names and phone
numbers for each contact;
   (K)   Each key lock box shall be clearly labeled for easy identification;
and
   (L)   Where a building contains a business that is required to maintain
material safety data sheets, a lock box document vault shall be installed on
the front of the building at the height and location as referenced in the
preceding sections, unless different location and installation specifications
are approved by the jurisdictional Fire Department Chief. The vault shall
contain copies of the material safety data sheets that are required to be on
file within the building as well as a floor plan or written description that
indicates the location of the general areas containing said materials.
(Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 92.20 JURISDICTIONAL FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   No Fire Department personnel shall carry a key to the key lock box.
   (B)   All key lock box access keys shall be stored in a key lock box
installed in the fire apparatus.
(Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 92.21 LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY.
   The township assumes no liability for any of the following:
   (A)   Any defects in the operation of the key lock box; any problems with
any of the keys contained within such lock box; and/or any deficiency or flaw
with the information stored within such lock box or otherwise provided to the
township or the jurisdictional Fire Chief;
   (B)   Failure or neglect of any owner of a structure or property required to
have a key lock box to provide such a lock box or to provide access to the lock
box;
   (C)   Any breach in security of any structure or property required to have a
key lock box due to access to the lock box by any person; and
   (D)   Any harm, damage or injury to any person or property arising out of or
due to the installation or use of a key lock box or the failure to install and/
or use such a lock box.
(Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.35 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as “The Upper Milford Township
Prevention of Open, Unattended Fires, Fire Hazards and Air Pollution Control
Ordinance of 2004”.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 92.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. A container used for the purpose of open burning
consisting of a metal barrel with a 55-gallon capacity or less which meets the
specifications attached hereto, made a part hereof and marked as Appendix A to
this
Chapter 92, or a similar approved container.
   BONFIRE. A large fire built outside a containment structure upon the ground
for recreational or ceremonial purposes limited to a size of generally no
greater than five feet long, five feet wide and five feet in height.
   BURN CONTAINER COVER. A metal screen with spaces not more than one-quarter
square inch apart that covers the entire open area above the approved container
and meets the specifications attached hereto as Appendix A. The screen shall be
maintained in good order so as to prevent larger particles from escaping from
the approved container during operation.
   BURNING. The act of consuming by fire, including, but not limited to,
flaming, charring, scorching or blazing. As used in this subchapter, the term
SMOLDERING shall have the same meaning as BURNING, and any smoldering shall be
considered BURNING.
   CAMPFIRE. A small wood fire generally built in an iron ring or similar
device outside of a structure for cooking or to create warmth generally limited
to a size not exceeding a fuel supply of greater than three feet in diameter
and two feet in height.
   CLEARING AND GRUBBING WASTE. Trees, shrubs and other native vegetation which
are cleared from land. The term CLEARING AND GRUBBING WASTE does not include
demolition waste or dirt-laid in roots.
   DOMESTIC REFUSE. Waste generated from a dwelling occupied by two families or
less. The term DOMESTIC REFUSE does not include household hazardous waste,
source separated waste from recyclables, appliances, carpets, demolition waste
(insulation, shingles, plaster, siding and the like), furniture, mattresses,
box springs, paint, plastics, petroleum products, rubber products, solvents,
tires, treated wood, wire or putrescible waste.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste considered hazardous within the meaning of
the Solid Waste Management Act, 35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq., except that it is
produced in lesser quantities then that regulated under the Solid Waste
Management Act, or is generated by persons not considered hazardous waste
generators within the meaning of the Solid Waste Management Act.
   OPEN BURNING. A fire, not directed through a flue, which emits air
contaminants directly into the outdoor atmosphere.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, institution
or cooperative enterprise. Under any provision of this subchapter prescribing a
fine, imprisonment and/or penalty, or any combination of the foregoing, the
term PERSON shall include the officers and directors of any corporation or
other legal entity having officers and directors.
   RECREATIONAL OR CEREMONIAL BURNING. Open burning which occurs for pleasure,
religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or other similar purposes, including,
but not limited to, bonfires and campfires.
   SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from
municipal waste at the point of origin for the purpose of recycling.
   STRUCTURE. Any house, dwelling, garage, shed, shelter, or other building as
that term is defined in the zoning ordinance of the township.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Upper Milford Township.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, garden residue, tree trimmings, clipped
shrubbery, other vegetative material.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 92.37 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall conduct or perform any open burning, ignite or feed any open
fire, or aid and abet, allow, permit, maintain or cause any open burning or
open fire within the township unless and in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.38 PERMITTED BURNING.
   Open burning shall be permitted of the following:
   (A)   A fire to prevent or abate a fire hazard when in accordance with
Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection regulations, with prior
notification to the Township Codes Enforcement Officer and the Chief of the
Fire Company of the district in which the burn is to be conducted;
   (B)   A fire to instruct personnel in firefighting, when in accordance with
the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection regulations, which is
under the direct supervision of the Chief of the Fire Company or his or her
designee;
   (C)   A fire to prevent and/or control disease or pests when in accordance
with Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection regulations, with
prior notification to the Township Codes Enforcement Officer and the Chief of
the Fire Company of the district in which the burn is to be conducted; and
   (D)   A fire, other than a campfire, solely to cook or prepare food.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 92.39 PERMITTED BURNING STANDARDS.
   Open burning shall be permitted of the following pursuant to the standards
included below.
   (A)   Domestic refuse generated from one dwelling, when the fire is on the
premises of a structure solely occupied as a dwelling by two families or less
and when the refuse results from the normal occupancy of said structure
provided:
      (1)   The open burning is conducted in an approved container;
      (2)   The approved container is placed a minimum of 25 feet from any
property line or structure;
      (3)   The open burning is attended to at all times;
      (4)   The open burning does not take place either before sunrise or after
sunset;
      (5)   The open burning is completely extinguished, including smoldering,
by sunset;
      (6)   Precautions are taken to regulate, control and extinguish the open
burning through the use of fire extinguishers, water hoses, dirt, sand or other
fire extinguishing equipment which shall be readily available at the site of
the open burning for immediate utilization; and
      (7)   The open burning is not conducted on Sunday or any holiday
recognized by the township at its annual reorganization meeting.
   (B)   A fire set in conjunction with the production of agricultural
commodities in their unmanufactured state on the premises of a farm operation
pursuant to the standards below:
      (1)   The open burning is attended to at all times;
      (2)   The open burning does not take place either before sunrise or after
sunset;
      (3)   The open burning is completely extinguished, including smoldering,
by sunset;
      (4)   Precautions are taken to regulate, control and extinguish the open
burning through the use of fire extinguishers, water hoses, dirt, sand or other
fire extinguishing equipment which shall be readily available at the site of
the open burning for immediate utilization; and
      (5)   The open burning is not conducted on Sunday or any holiday
recognized by the township at its annual reorganization meeting.
   (C)   A fire set for the purpose of burning, clearing and grubbing waste
provided:
      (1)   The person conducting the open burning must notify county radio
dispatch two hours in advance of the open burning;
      (2)   The open burning is at least 50 feet from any structure or property
line;
      (3)   The open burning is attended to at all times;
      (4)   The open burning does not take place either before sunrise or after
sunset;
      (5)   The open burning is completely extinguished, including smoldering,
by sunset;
      (6)   Precautions are taken to regulate, control and extinguish the open
burning through the use of fire extinguishers, water hoses, dirt, sand or other
fire extinguishing equipment which shall be readily available at the site of
the open burning for immediate utilization; and
      (7)   The open burning is not conducted on Sunday or any holiday
recognized by the township at its annual reorganization meeting.
   (D)   Yard waste generated from the premises of the structure occupied
solely as a dwelling by two families or less, where the fire is on the premises
of the said structure provided:
      (1)   The yard waste being burned is dry material and occupies a space
that is not more than five feet long, by five feet wide, by five feet in
height;
      (2)   The person conducting the open burning must notify county radio
dispatch two hours in advance of the open burning;
      (3)   The open burning is at least 50 feet from any structure or property
line;
      (4)   The open burning is attended to at all times;
      (5)   The open burning does not take place either before sunrise or after
sunset;
      (6)   The open burning is completely extinguished, including smoldering
by sunset;
      (7)   Precautions are taken to regulate, control and extinguish the open
burning through the use of fire extinguishers, water hoses, dirt, sand or other
fire extinguishing equipment which shall be readily available at the site of
the open burning for immediate utilization; and
      (8)   The open burning is not conducted on Sunday or any holiday
recognized by the township at its annual reorganization meeting.
   (E)   A fire set solely for ceremonial or recreational purposes provided the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   Bonfires.
         (a)   A written application is submitted at least ten days in advance
of the proposed bonfire to the township accompanied by a site plan of the
property depicting all structures on the premises and the location of the
proposed bonfire;
         (b)   A permit is issued by the Codes Enforcement Officer upon payment
of the requisite application fee established by the Board of Supervisors of the
township;
         (c)   The bonfire shall be at least 50 feet from any property line or
structure;
         (d)   The bonfire shall not be placed under any overhead wires, trees
or similar vegetation, and all brush, leaves, branches or other combustible
materials shall be cleared within 25 feet of the diameter of the bonfire;
         (e)   The person conducting the bonfire must notify county radio
dispatch two hours in advance of the bonfire;
         (f)   The bonfire is attended to at all times;
         (g)   The bonfire is completely extinguished, including smoldering,
before it is left unattended; and
         (h)   Precautions are taken to regulate, control and extinguish the
bonfire through the use of fire extinguishers, water hoses, dirt, sand or other
fire extinguishing equipment which shall be readily available at the site of
the bonfire for immediate utilization.
      (2)   Campfires.
         (a)   The campfire shall be located in a non-combustible fire ring or
similar device designed specifically for such purpose, in a barbeque pit, or
in-ground in accordance with commonly accepted safe burning practices;
         (b)   The campfire shall be at least 25 feet from a property line or
structure;
         (c)   Fuel for the campfire shall be clean, dry seasoned wood;
         (d)   The person conducting the open burning (campfire) must notify
county radio dispatch two hours in advance of the campfire;
         (e)   The campfire is attended to at all times;
         (f)   The campfire is completely extinguished, including smoldering,
before it is left unattended; and
         (g)   Precautions are taken to regulate, control and extinguish the
campfire through the use of fire extinguishers, water hoses, dirt, sand or
other fire extinguishing equipment which shall be readily available at the site
of the campfire for immediate utilization.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 92.40 BURNING OF MATERIALS GENERATED BY A COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR OTHER
SIMILAR NONRESIDENTIAL USE.
   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter, no open burning is permitted of
any materials generated by a commercial, industrial or other similar
nonresidential use, including, but not limited to, any materials from the
salvaging, construction and/or demolition of any structure.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 ADDITIONAL BURNING STANDARDS.
   The following additional standards apply to all open burning.
   (A)   All open burning shall be attended to by a person 18 years of age or
older.
   (B)   No open burning shall produce malodorous fumes detectible beyond the
property line which adversely affects the reasonable health, safety, use,
occupancy and/or welfare of others.
   (C)   There shall be no open burning of any toxic or household hazardous
waste, including, but not limited to, tires, plastics, petroleum-based
products, paint, batteries or furniture.
   (D)   All items burned shall be readily combustible, and the application of
any accelerant used to ignite the fire shall be done in accordance with the
recommendations of its manufacturer for safe and proper use.
   (E)   The use of gasoline, motor oil or other similar petroleum-based
products, as accelerants, for a fire are prohibited.
   (F)   The provisions of the most current edition of the International Fire
Code, § 307 Open Burning, are incorporated herein and must be complied with by
any person conducting open burning. To the extent that those provisions
conflict with any provisions contained in this subchapter or other approved
regulations, the stricter provision shall apply.
   (G)   No open burning shall be permitted within any street right-of-way,
gutter or swale except for open burning pursuant to §
92.39(A), (B) or (C).
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.42 BOARD OF SUPERVISORS MAY PROHIBIT.
   (A)   If because of weather, atmospheric or other conditions, any open
burning would in the judgment of the Board of Supervisors of the township and/
or upon the mutual written consent of the Fire Chiefs of the township (or their
designee(s)), would constitute a general danger or threat to property or
persons in the township, the Board of Supervisors of the township and/or the
Fire Chiefs (or their designee(s)) upon mutual written consent may prohibit any
open burning until such danger, in their opinion, is no longer present. In the
event that the open burning is prohibited by the decision of the Fire Chiefs
(or their designee(s)), then the Fire Chiefs (or their designee(s)) shall
immediately, in writing, each submit a letter to the attention of the Board of
Supervisors of Upper Milford Township declaring the prohibition on open burning
including the rationale for that declaration. The Fire Chiefs of the township
shall submit written correspondence to the township listing their designee(s)
(for purposes of this section). The township shall notify the public of the
prohibition on open burning through the newspapers, posting at the township
municipal building and at the local fire companies, and/or through use of other
publications and the township's website.
   (B)   A ban on open burning may also be declared by the County of Lehigh,
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and/or the United States government. To the
extent that such a fire ban emergency is declared by these entities, it shall
supersede the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004; Ord. 107, passed 5-18-2006; Ord. 166, passed 5-7-
2020)
§ 92.43 ENFORCEMENT.
   The township hereby designates its Codes Enforcement Officer with the power
and authority to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and issue permits.
In addition, the township further authorizes its Codes Enforcement Officer and
the respective Fire Chiefs or their designee located within the township to
direct persons to cease and desist from any unlawful open burning in violation
of this subchapter. Upon such order, immediate corrective action and measures
shall be taken to abate the violation and cease the unlawful open burning.
Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit the Codes Enforcement
Officer, or the Fire Chiefs or their designee from taking appropriate
corrective action and measures to abate the violation if in their opinion an
immediate hazard is present.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter, for which no
other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who or which owns, uses or possesses a fire alarm
system in a residential structure may not cause or permit more than two false
fire alarms and/or nuisance fire alarms in a consecutive 12-month period. A
person who or which owns, uses or possesses a fire alarm system in a
residential structure that causes or permits a third false fire alarm and/or
nuisance fire alarm in any 12-month period shall be subject to a fine of $150.
All subsequent false fire alarms and/or nuisance fire alarms in any 12-month
period shall be subject to a fine of $150 for each such false fire alarm and/or
nuisance fire alarm. Each such false fire alarm and/or nuisance fire alarm
shall be considered a separate violation. A person who or which violates §§
92.01 through
92.04 commits a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay
a fine of $150 in addition to those fines set forth herein. The fine shall be
paid to the township, who shall forward the same to the responding township
volunteer fire company.
      (2)   A person who or which owns, uses or possesses a fire alarm system
in a commercial structure may not cause or permit more than two false fire
alarms and/or nuisance fire alarms in a consecutive 12-month period. A person
who or which owns, uses or possesses a fire alarm system in a commercial
structure that causes or permits a third false fire alarm and/or nuisance fire
alarm in any 12-month period shall be subject to a fine of $300. All subsequent
false fire alarms and/or nuisance fire alarms in any 12-month period shall be
subject to a fine of $300 for each such false fire alarm and/or nuisance fire
alarm. Each such false fire alarm and/or nuisance fire alarm shall be
considered a separate violation. A person who or which violates §§
92.01 through
92.04 commits a summary offense and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay
a fine of $300 in addition to those fines set forth herein. The fine shall be
paid to the township, who shall forward the same to the responding township
volunteer fire company.
   (C)   Any person who or that violates any provision of §§
92.15 through
92.21, other than §§
92.15 and
92.16 shall, upon conviction thereof, be ordered to pay a fine of not more than
$1,000 plus costs. Each day that a violation of §§
92.15 through
92.21 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.35 through
92.43 shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000, plus costs. Each day that a violation continues to exist
constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004; Ord. 142, passed 10-15-2015; Ord. 143, passed 11-
19-2015)
APPENDIX A: APPROVED CONTAINER
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1069.jpg]
 
(Ord. 97, passed 6-17-2004)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLING, CANVASSING AND SOLICITING
      
111.   LANDLORDS AND RENTERS
      
112.   JUNK DEALERS
      
113.   MOVING OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLING, CANVASSING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
110.01   License required; exceptions
   
110.02   Definitions and interpretation
   
110.03   License application
   
110.04   Application investigation; disapproval or license issuance
   
110.05   License fees
   
110.06   License card issuance and contents
   
110.07   Exhibition of license
   
110.08   Peddling, soliciting or canvassing from fixed location unlawful
   
110.09   Revocation of licenses
   
110.10   Advertising for closing out sales, sales of goods damaged by fire,
smoke or water, and defunct business sales
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No peddler, solicitor or canvasser as defined in §
110.02 shall engage in the business of peddling, soliciting or canvassing
within the limits of the township without first obtaining a license therefor in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, except:
   (A)   Farmers selling their own produce;
   (B)   The sale of goods, wares or merchandise donated by the owners thereof,
the proceeds whereof are to be applied to any charitable or philanthropic
purpose;
   (C)   The sale of goods, wares or merchandise by churches, scouting
organizations, fire companies, ambulance and police corps, provided that the
proceeds thereof are to be applied to any charitable or philanthropic purpose;
   (D)   Salespersons, manufacturers’ representatives and agents and the like
selling goods to retail, wholesale, professional or industrial establishments;
and
   (E)   Any manufacturer or producer in the sale of bread and bakery products,
meat and meat products, poultry and poultry products or milk and milk products.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PEDDLER, CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of
the township or not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck
or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or
from street to street, selling or taking or attempting to take orders for sale
of goods, wares and merchandise, books, magazines and periodicals, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for immediate or future delivery, or for
services furnished or to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or
not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale the subject of such sale,
or a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he or she is collecting
advance payments on such sales or not. PEDDLER, CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR includes
any person who, for himself or herself, or for another person, firm or
corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent,
railroad box car, boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other
place within the township for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking
orders for present or future delivery. PEDDLER, CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR also
includes any person who for himself or herself, or for another person, firm or
corporation, employs the telephone followed by a personal call for the sole
purpose of attaining a signed order or contract or to deliver goods or
services.
      PERSON. Any natural person, association, partnership, firm or
corporation.
      STREET. Any street, road, highway or alley, and shall include the
sidewalk within the lines of or alongside the same.
   (B)   In this chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine and
the neuter.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982)
§ 110.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for license under this chapter shall file with the Township
Codes Enforcement Officer, Secretary, Treasurer or other designated employee of
the township, an application in writing, in duplicate, on a form to be
furnished by the officer or employee which shall give the following
information:
      (1)   The name and a description of the applicant;
      (2)   The permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
      (3)   The motor vehicle registration, if any, and Social Security number
or employee’s identification number of the applicant;
      (4)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods or
services to be sold or furnished;
      (5)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (6)   The length of time and hours for which the right to do business is
desired in the township;
      (7)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or
orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such
goods or products are located at the time the application is filed, and the
proposed method of delivery; the place where he or she was engaged in peddling
immediately prior to his or her making such application, if any; and the
soliciting or canvassing place where he or she intends to go after completion
of his or her work in the township;
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature
of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor; and
      (9)   A statement as to whether the customer is to receive a signed
receipt if a down payment is made.
   (B)   At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall submit
copies of the receipt, contract and other forms that attend the sales
transaction, and a recent photograph or himself or herself.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation or organization subject to the
provisions of this chapter may designate in writing one of his, her or its
officers or employees to file the applications required herein. If such
applicant shall also be required to obtain a license from any county officer,
he or she shall, when making such application, exhibit a valid county license.
   (D)   Each individual desiring a license shall make personal application for
such license; an individual license shall be required for each person to engage
in peddling, soliciting or canvassing in the township; and no license issued
under this chapter shall be transferable from one person to another person or
corporation.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION; DISAPPROVAL OR LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the original shall be referred to the
Township Codes Enforcement Officer, who shall cause such investigation of the
applicant’s business and moral character to be made as he or she deems
necessary for the protection of the public good.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Township Codes
Enforcement Officer shall endorse on the application his or her disapproval and
his or her reasons for the same, and shall notify the applicant that his or her
application is disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Township
Codes Enforcement Officer shall endorse on the application his or her approval,
execute a license addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the
business applied for and shall, upon payment of the prescribed license fee,
issue a license to the applicant as hereinafter set forth. The license shall
contain the signature and seal of the issuing officer and shall show the name,
address and photograph of the licensee, the kind of goods to be sold
thereunder, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time
the same shall be operative, as well as the license number and other
identifying description of any vehicle used in such peddling, soliciting or
canvassing. The officer shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued.
Said licenses shall be nontransferable.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982)
§ 110.05 LICENSE FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the fee therefor, which
shall be for the use of the township, shall have been paid to the Township
Codes Enforcement Officer, Secretary, Treasurer or other designated person of
the township, by the applicant for such license. The fee for the license shall
be $25 per month or fractional part thereof. Said license shall be renewed
monthly during the continuance of said peddling, soliciting or canvassing.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982)
§ 110.06 LICENSE CARD ISSUANCE AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   The Township Codes Enforcement Officer shall mail to each approved
licensee within ten days of approval a license card which shall contain the
words “Licensed Solicitor”, the period for which the license is issued and the
number of the license. The card shall, during the time such licensee is engaged
in soliciting, be carried constantly by the licensee.
   (B)   No person shall engage in selling any goods, wares or merchandise
other than that mentioned upon such license, nor shall any person engage in
peddling within the township unless he or she holds a valid and unexpired
license issued to him or her in his or her name.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Peddlers, solicitors and canvassers are required to exhibit their licenses
at the request of any person.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982)
§ 110.08 PEDDLING, SOLICITING OR CANVASSING FROM FIXED LOCATION UNLAWFUL.
   No peddler, canvasser or solicitor shall occupy any fixed location upon any
of the streets or public places in the township for the purpose of peddling.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Township Codes Enforcement Officer shall have authority to revoke
any license issued under this chapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as solicitor or as canvasser or peddler;
      (3)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting, or of canvassing or
peddling, in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach
of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   Any applicant may appeal from such act of revocation to the Board of
Supervisors at the next regular meeting thereof.
   (C)   No license fee or portion thereof shall be refunded in the case of
revocation.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 ADVERTISING FOR CLOSING OUT SALES, SALES OF GOODS DAMAGED BY FIRE,
SMOKE OR WATER, AND DEFUNCT BUSINESS SALES.
   (A)   Any person who desires to advertise or hold out by any means that the
sale of any goods, wares, or merchandise is a closing-out sale, a sale of goods
damaged by fire, smoke or water or a defunct business sale shall first obtain a
license from the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Any person desiring to so advertise or hold out by any of the
aforementioned means shall comply with all of the requirements set forth in 53
P.S. §§ 4471 et seq.
   (C)   All such persons, prior to obtaining a license, shall complete a
written application under oath to the Secretary of the said Board of
Supervisors, in a form to be supplied by said Secretary.
(Res. 1986-008, passed 7-2-1986)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $200 and
costs of prosecution, and, in default of payment of such fine and costs, to
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-5-1982)
CHAPTER 111: LANDLORDS AND RENTERS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions and interpretation
   
111.03   Reports by landlords
   
111.04   Reports by persons upon becoming landlords
   
111.05   Reports of changes in use or occupancy
   
111.06   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to provide for the uniform and equitable
distribution of tax levies in the township and upon the inhabitants thereof,
and to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the township.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-6-1986)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS UNIT. A parcel of real estate, with or without improvements located
thereon, utilized by any person or persons for any commercial activity or
purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms used for living and sleeping purposes
arranged for occupancy by one family or by one or more persons.
   LANDLORD. A lessor, or person who acts as agent for the lessor, of any
parcel of real estate located in the township, or a lessor or person who acts
as agent for the lessor, of any improvements on real estate or any building
located in the township.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, firm or corporation.
   TENANT. A person who has the use, either by himself or herself or with
others, of a dwelling unit or a business unit owned by a person other than
himself or herself, for a period exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-6-1986)
§ 111.03 REPORTS BY LANDLORDS.
   Within 30 days from the effective date of this chapter, each landlord shall
submit to the Township Codes Enforcement Officer, Secretary, Treasurer or other
designated employee of the township, a report form supplied by the officer or
employee, which includes the following information:
   (A)   List of the dwelling units and business units owned by the landlord,
located within the township limits, whether occupied or unoccupied;
   (B)   Address of each dwelling unit and business unit;
   (C)   Brief description of each dwelling unit or business unit;
   (D)   Whether or not said dwelling unit or business unit is inhabited or
utilized by tenants; and
   (E)   Names of the tenant or tenants utilizing the aforementioned dwelling
unit or business unit, if any.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-6-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 REPORTS BY PERSONS UPON BECOMING LANDLORDS.
   After the effective date of this chapter, any person who becomes a landlord
of any parcel of real estate or any improvement on real estate or building
located in the township shall, within 30 days thereafter, report to the officer
or employee the information and data as set forth in §
111.03 and in the manner specified in §
111.03.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-6-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 REPORTS OF CHANGES IN USE OR OCCUPANCY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, each and every landlord of
property within the township shall report to the officer or employee in the
manner prescribed in §
111.03 any change in the use or occupancy of any dwelling unit or business unit
owned by such landlord. The reported change shall include the name or names of
new tenants of such dwelling unit or business unit, the date when such change
was affected, and the forwarding address of the old tenant or tenants if known.
A landlord of a hotel and/or boarding house shall not be required to report a
person as a “tenant” until that person has resided in such landlord’s
establishment for a period exceeding 30 days. In the event that a dwelling unit
or business unit was utilized or utilized by a tenant and then becomes vacant,
this change shall also be reported to the officer or employee. All reports
required by this section shall be made within ten days after a landlord has
knowledge that such a unit has had a change in occupancy or has become vacant.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-6-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective five days after enactment.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-6-1986)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall upon
conviction thereof before the District Judge, be fined in the amount of $25 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs of prosecution. Upon default of payment
of the said fine and costs, such person shall be committed to county prison for
a period not exceeding five days. Each day’s continuance of this offense shall
constitute a new offense.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-6-1986)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Place of business
   
112.04   Maintenance of licensed junkyard and business
   
112.05   Existing owners
   
112.06   Inspection of premises
   
112.07   Enforcement
   
112.08   Effective date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE. Any and all types of motor vehicles, including self-propelled
machinery of all kinds with the exception of useable farm machinery.
   BOARD. The Board of Supervisors of Upper Milford Township, Lehigh County,
Pennsylvania.
   JUNK. Any and all discarded material or articles; including scrap metal,
junk motor vehicles, glass, industrial waste, paper, abandoned machinery,
equipment, containers, structures, used plumbing supplies and other used
building materials.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who buys, sells, salvages, stores or in any other
way deals in junk or owns, leases, operates or maintains a junkyard within the
township.
   JUNKYARD. Any place where any junk as hereinbefore defined, is stored,
disposed of or accumulated. Any premises as herein defined having two or more
unlicensed autos thereon shall, in any event, be deemed a JUNKYARD.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, firm, corporation, or other legal
entity, including singular and plural, male and female.
   PREMISES. Any parcel of land situate in Upper Milford Township, Lehigh
County, Pennsylvania, having a separate tax map parcel number for county
assessment purposes.
   TOWNSHIP. Upper Milford Township, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in business as a junk dealer or own, lease, operate
or maintain a junkyard as herein defined without first obtaining a licence to
operate a junkyard as a junk dealer. The annual fee for such a license shall be
$125 and the license shall be effective for a 12-month period beginning April 1
and ending March 31 of the following year, subject to renewal upon
reapplication. Each such license must be renewed annually on or before April 1
of each year. Application for a license or any renewal thereof shall be filed
in writing with the Secretary of the Board and shall contain the applicant’s
sworn statement setting forth the applicant’s name and address, together with
the names and addresses of all other persons interested in the business, an
accurate description of the premises upon which the business is to be conducted
and the junkyard located, and a statement that the applicant will comply with
the chapter and any regulations adopted pursuant the chapter. Upon receipt of
the application and license fee of $125 by the township, if the application
complies with the provisions hereof, the Secretary of the Board, or the Board,
shall, within ten days, issue its license authorizing the operation and
maintenance of a junkyard upon the premises by the junk dealer. Such license
shall at all times be conspicuously displayed upon the junkyard premises. The
license shall be non-transferrable both as to the junkyard premises and junk
dealer. The Board, in issuing or refusing to issue a license to the applicant,
shall take into consideration the zoning ordinance and Township Comprehensive
Plan and in the event a license is refused, the township shall refund $100 to
the applicant and retain $25 to cover the cost of servicing the application.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall, by virtue of one license, keep
more than one place of business or maintain or operate more than one junkyard
within the township, nor shall any person engage in business as a junk dealer
or operate or maintain a junkyard in any place other than the place designated
upon his or her license, nor shall any person operate upon any of the roads or
highways in the township whether from a vehicle or upon foot, as a scavenger or
an itinerant buyer or seller of junk.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 MAINTENANCE OF LICENSED JUNKYARD AND BUSINESS.
   Every junk dealer licensed under this chapter shall maintain the licensed
junkyard and conduct business as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   All junk shall be stored behind a fence as specified in division (B)
below which fence shall be set back at least 50 feet from all lot lines of the
premises occupied and in use as a junkyard.
   (B)   Every junkyard shall be completely fenced with a heavy-duty chain link
or wire mesh fence at least six feet in height with gates of similar fencing
material, which gates shall at all times be securely locked except during
business hours when an adult attendant employed as such is on the premises.
Such fence shall have maximum openings of four square inches and the wire mesh
shall be of a maximum size and strength of number ten gauge steel wire. Said
fence shall be continuously maintained in good repair and order.
   (C)   Every area in use as a junkyard containing five acres shall be
separated from every other such area by a fire lane of 150 feet.
   (D)   All junk shall be stored and set back at least 50 feet from any
adjoining premises and at least 100 feet from the nearest edge of the cartway
of any public road or highway.
   (E)   The business hours at which time the junkyard is in operation shall be
those hours as established by the junk dealer; however, no junkyard shall
operate on Sunday, nor between the hours of 5:00 p.m. EST and 7:00 a.m. EST,
except to remove any wrecked automobile from any public highway.
   (F)   All junk shall be stored and arranged so as to permit access by
firefighting equipment and Fire Department personnel, and to prevent
accumulation of stagnant waters. Junked automobiles shall be spaced in rows
with at least 15 feet between each double row to permit movement of such
firefighting and personnel. Junk shall not be piled to a height of more than
ten feet from the ground.
   (G)   Whenever any motor vehicle shall be received in the junkyard, all
gasoline and/or diesel fuel (or propane tanks) shall be drained and removed
therefrom within 12 hours of the arrival of said automobile in the junkyard.
Gasoline may be stored in said junkyards provided the same be stored in
container as are approved by the Board of Fire Underwriters. Gasoline or oil
shall be stored at only one location on the licensed premises.
   (H)   All weeds on any junkyard shall be kept mowed and shall be not
permitted to go to seed.
   (I)   An adult attendant shall at all times during business hours remain on
the junkyard premises. Such attendant must be able to speak the English
language and be mentally competent.
   (J)   No garbage or organic waste shall be permitted to be stored on any
junkyard.
   (K)   No burning or melting of any junk shall be permitted in any junkyard,
nor in the township.
   (L)   Paper, rags, plastic materials and rubbish shall not be accumulated or
remain in any junkyard for more than one month.
   (M)   Junkyards shall at all times be maintained in such a manner as not to
cause any menace to health or safety of any persons off the premises; or to
cause any excessive or offensive or noxious sounds or odors; nor to cause the
breeding, harboring, or infesting of rats, rodents or vermin; nor to cause a
violation of any health or sanitation law, ordinance or regulation of any
governmental body.
   (N)   Permanent records of all junk received or removed from any junkyard
shall be kept by the junk dealer on the premises containing the name and
address of the person from whom received or delivered and the date thereof, and
a description of the junk, which shall at all times be opened to inspection by
any member of the Board or its duly authorized agent or any law enforcement
officer.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 EXISTING OWNERS.
   Persons owning, leasing or having control of junkyards existing at the time
of passage of this chapter shall not be required to make application for a
license for any period prior to the April 1 following the passage of this
chapter, but shall register such junkyard with the Board of Supervisors or its
agent upon the effective date of the chapter. Existing junk dealers shall have
eight months from the effective date of this chapter to comply with all the
standards and requirements as set forth under §
112.04.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967)
§ 112.06 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Any member of the Board or a duly authorized agent thereof may, at any time,
enter upon and inspect any premises for which there is a pending application
for a junkyard license, which holds a current junkyard license or upon which a
junkyard is in operation.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967)
§ 112.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board may from time to time adopt regulations to carry out the
provisions of this chapter upon giving notice to the licensees affected by such
regulations, a copy of such regulations to be furnished to the licensees at the
expense of the township.
   (B)   The township will appoint an officer as a Junkyard Ordinance
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967)
§ 112.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective five days after enactment.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
by summary proceedings before a District Judge, be subject to a fine of not
less than $100 nor more than $300 plus costs of prosecution, any monies
collected as fines under this chapter to be for the use of the township;
provided, that each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-2-1966; Ord. 15A, passed 12-27-1967)
CHAPTER 113: MOVING OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS
Section
   
113.01   Permit required
   
113.02   Application
   
113.03   Issuance of permit
   
113.04   Effective date
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or persons, firm, corporation or other entity, shall move from
place to place within the township or from the township to any place beyond the
limits of the township, without first securing a permit for such movement.
(Ord. 18-1971, passed 4-7-1971; Ord. 18A, passed 11-15-2001) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATION.
   Any such person or persons, firm, corporation or other entity desiring such
a permit shall make an application to the township setting forth his, her and/
or its name and address, the names of the owners or reputed owners of the
property, the address and location from which he, she and/or it is moving from
and the new address or location of the place to which he, she and/or it is
moving to.
(Ord. 18-1971, passed 4-7-1971; Ord. 18A, passed 11-15-2001)
§ 113.03 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon application being made meeting the requirements of §
113.02, the township shall issue a permit.
(Ord. 18-1971, passed 4-7-1971; Ord. 18A, passed 11-15-2001)
§ 113.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective five days after enactment.
(Ord. 18-1971, passed 4-7-1971; Ord. 18A, passed 11-15-2001)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons, firm, corporation or other entity who shall fail to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, or provide any false information
shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $300 and/or
be sentenced to a term of imprisonment not exceeding ten days.
(Ord. 18-1971, passed 4-7-1971; Ord. 18A, passed 11-15-2001)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Littering
   
130.02   Prohibiting Category 4 casinos
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall throw, discharge, dump, deposit, distribute, place or
leave or cause to be thrown, discharged, dumped, deposited, distributed, placed
or left upon any of the streets, parkways, roadways, thoroughfares, fields,
alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, yards or porches of any dwelling within the
township or in or on the grounds of any public parks, playgrounds, recreation
areas, public buildings, streams, water or banks of such streams, any waste
paper, ashes, glass, grass clippings, trimmings, advertising circulars,
newspapers, magazines, samples, fruit peelings, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste,
garbage refuse or any other trash. Such prohibition shall apply to any and all
places within the township. The violation of any of the prohibitions herein set
forth are hereby declared to be a nuisance and detrimental to the health,
safety, cleanliness and comfort of the citizens, inhabitants and property
owners of the township.
   (B)   PERSON shall mean and include any person, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company or organization of any kind engaging in any
of the aforesaid prohibited activity and/or those directing said prohibited
activity.
   (C)   The owner of any motor vehicle from which the aforementioned trash is
thrown, discharged, dumped, deposited, placed, left or caused to be thrown,
discharged, dumped, deposited, placed or left shall be presumed to be the
person depositing such trash. In any proceedings for a violation of this
section, the registration plate displayed on such vehicle shall be prima facie
evidence that the owner of such vehicle was then operating the same. If at any
hearing or proceedings the owner shall testify under oath or affirmation that
he or she was not operating such motor vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation of this section or that such owner did not deposit such trash in
violation of this section and shall submit himself or herself to an examination
as to who at the time was operating such vehicle or who deposited the trash and
reveal the name of the person, if known to him or her or if the information is
made in a county other than that of the owner’s residence and an affidavit
setting forth these required facts is forwarded to the issuing authority, then
the prima facie evidence arising from the registration plate, shall be overcome
and removed and the burden of proof shall be shifted.
   (D)   Any resident of this township or the commonwealth or of the United
States of America may report violations of this section by filing a formal
complaint with the township in the form thereby required to proceed before the
appropriate issuing authorities on information received.
   (E)   The Township Board of Supervisors, as well as the Township Codes
Enforcement Officer, are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to enforce
compliance with this section.
   (F)   In addition to any penalty imposed, any court may require that the
person remove such trash at such person’s expense.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-28-1983) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PROHIBITING CATEGORY 4 CASINOS.
   The township prohibits the placement and operation of a Category 4 licensed
casino within the boundaries of the township.
(Res. 2017-047, passed 11-16-2017) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$300, plus costs, and in default of payment thereof, shall be imprisoned in the
county jail for a period not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-28-1983)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   FLOODPLAINS
      
152.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   OFFICIAL MAP
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
Pennsylvania Construction Code and the Uniform Construction Code
   
150.01   Adoption
   
150.02   Administration and enforcement
   
150.03   Board of Appeals
   
150.04   Prior building regulations
   
150.05   Fees
Joint Building Code Board of Appeals
   
150.15   Recitals
   
150.16   Established
   
150.17   Initial formation
   
150.18   Members
   
150.19   Appeals
   
150.20   Board action
   
150.21   Factors considered
   
150.22   Accessibility
   
150.23   Board decision
   
150.24   Suspension of action
   
150.25   Fee schedule
   
150.26   Withdrawal of Board member
   
150.27   Amendment of subchapter
PENNSYLVANIA CONSTRUCTION CODE AND THE UNIFORM CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The township hereby elects to administer and enforce the provisions of
the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101
through 7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   (B)   The Uniform Construction Code, contained in 34 Pa.Code Chapters 401
through 405, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated
herein by reference as the Municipal Building Code of the township.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-1-2004)
§ 150.02 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Administration and enforcement of the Code within the township shall be
undertaken in any of the following ways as determined by the Board of
Supervisors, from time to time, by resolution:
   (A)   By the designation of an employee of the township to service the
Municipal Code Official to act on behalf of the township;
   (B)   By the retention of one or more construction code officials or third-
party agencies to act on behalf of the township;
   (C)   By agreement with one or more other municipalities for the joint
administration and enforcement of this Act through an intermunicipal agreement;
   (D)   By entering into a contract with another municipality for the
administration and enforcement of this Act on behalf of the township; and
   (E)   By entering into an agreement with the Pennsylvania Department of
Labor and Industry for plan review, inspections and enforcement of structures
other than one-family or two-family dwelling units and utility and
miscellaneous use structures.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-1-2004)
§ 150.03 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors in the township in conformity with the requirements of the relevant
provisions of the Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set
forth therein. If at any time enforcement and administration is undertaken
jointly with one or other municipalities, the said Board of Appeals shall be
established by joint action of the participating municipalities.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-1-2004)
§ 150.04 PRIOR BUILDING REGULATIONS.
   The prior building ordinances of the township are hereby affected by this
subchapter as follows.
   (A)   All building code ordinances, or portions of ordinances, which were
adopted by the township on or before July 1, 1999, and which equal or exceed
the requirements of this Code shall continue in full force and effect until
such time as such provisions fail to equal or exceed the minimum requirements
of the Code as amended from time to time. The building code ordinance shall
exclude and shall not apply to utility and miscellaneous use structures that
are accessory to detached one-family dwellings meeting the following
definition: the building or structure must be of an accessory character and
miscellaneous structure not classified by the Building Officials and Code
Administrators International Inc. (BOCA) in any specific occupancy. The term
includes, but may not be limited to, carports, detached private garages,
greenhouses and sheds all having a building area footprint less than 296 square
feet. The term does not include swimming pools or spas.
   (B)   All building code ordinances, or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the effective date of this subchapter and whose requirements are
less than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby amended to conform
with the comparable provisions of the Code.
   (C)   All relevant ordinances, regulations and policies of the township not
governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-1-2004; Ord. 122, passed 4-16-2009)
§ 150.05 FEES.
   Any fees assessable by the township for the administration and enforcement
undertaken pursuant to this subchapter and the Code shall be established by the
Board of Supervisors by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-1-2004)
JOINT BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 150.15 RECITALS.
   (A)   (1)   The township is a Second Class Township located in Lehigh
County, Pennsylvania; and the Second Class Township Code permits
intergovernmental agreements between municipalities, provided that such
municipalities approve the same through the creation of an ordinance.
      (2)   The Boroughs of Macungie and Alburtis and the Townships of Lower
Milford and Upper Milford desire to establish a Joint Building Code Board of
Appeals to address the administration and enforcement of both the Pennsylvania
Construction Code Act and the Uniform Construction Code; and each of the
aforementioned municipalities desire to enter into such an intergovernmental
agreement.
   (B)   (1)   The Boroughs of Alburtis and Macungie and the Townships of Lower
Milford and Upper Milford (each a “participant” and collectively, the
“participants”) made an intergovernmental agreement to address the
administration and enforcement of the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act (the
“Act”), 35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et seq. and the Uniform Construction Code, 34
Pa.Code Chapter 401 et seq. (“the Code”). As authorized by the Pennsylvania
Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, this agreement is adopted as an ordinance by
each of the participants.
      (2)   Each of the participants has heretofore enacted an ordinance to
administer and enforce the act and to adopt the code as its municipal building
code.
      (3)   Each of the participants has also heretofore arranged for the
administration and enforcement of the Act and Code in a manner as prescribed by
§ 501(b) of the Code, 35 P.S. § 7210.501.
      (4)   Each of the participants is desirous of establishing and appointing
members to serve on a Joint Board of Appeals (“Board of Appeals”), as
authorized by § 501(c) of the Act and Code, 35 P.S. § 7210.501(c) to hear
appeals from decisions of the Code Administrator of each of the respective
participants and to utilize authority of the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental
Cooperation Act.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.16 ESTABLISHED.
   The participants hereby establish a joint Board of Appeals (the “Board”) to
hear appeals from the decisions of the Code Administrator of each of the
respective participants. An application for appeal to the Board shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of the Act or Code, or regulations legally
adopted pursuant thereto have been incorrectly interpreted, that the provisions
of the Act or Code do not fully apply or an equivalent form of construction is
to be used. In addition, the Board shall hear and rule on appeal requests for
variances and requests for extension of time.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.17 INITIAL FORMATION.
   Upon the initial formation of the Board, each participant shall appoint one
member and all four participants shall collectively appoint an “at large”
member subject to the approval of at least three of the participants. In the
event a vacancy occurs in regard to the at large member, the replacement member
shall be similarly appointed by the joint action of the participants upon the
approval of at least three of the participants. If a vacancy occurs in regard
to the remaining members of the Board, such vacancy shall be filled by the
appointment of a new member by the participant who appointed the member who is
leaving the Board. No elected official of any of the participants and no
employees within the Code Administration of such participant may serve on the
Board. A member of the Board serves at the pleasure of the elected officials of
each of the participants, and may be removed at any time with or without cause
only by the appointing participant which originally appointed that member;
provided, however, no member shall be removed during the pendency of any appeal
in which such member participated. Such member shall be qualified by training
and experience to pass on matters pertaining to building construction, which
may consist of licensure (i.e., an architect or engineer), experience in the
construction industry and/or training or experience as an inspector or reviewer
of plans.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.18 MEMBERS.
   The Board, itself, shall consist of a total of five members. No member of
the Board of Appeals may cast a vote or participate in any hearing on an
appeal, request for a variance or request for an extension of time in which he
or she has a personal, professional and/or financial interest. The Board shall
schedule meetings and provide public notice of such meetings in accordance with
the provisions of the Sunshine Act, 65 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 701 et seq. Three members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.19 APPEALS.
   An owner or his or her agent may request a variance, seek an extension of
time or appeal a decision of the Code Administrator of the participant by
filing a petition, in writing, with such Code Administrator. The post-marked
date, or the date of personal service, will establish the filing date for
purposes of the appeal, variance and/or request for extension of time. The
Board shall hold a hearing within 60 days from the date of the applicant’s
request unless the applicant agrees in writing to an extension of time. The
Board shall decide all appeals, variances and/or requests for extension of time
on the basis of the written documents received, including any written briefs,
and any argument from the owner and/or his or her agent, and will hear
testimony, if and only if, requested by the owner and/or his or her agent.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.20 BOARD ACTION.
   When ruling upon an appeal from the decision of a Code Administrator, the
Board shall only consider the following factors:
   (A)   Whether the true intent of the Act or Code was incorrectly
interpreted;
   (B)   Whether the provisions of the Act or Code apply or do not apply; and
   (C)   Whether an equivalent form of construction is to be used.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.21 FACTORS CONSIDERED.
   When considering a request for a variance or an extension of time, the Board
shall consider only the following factors:
   (A)   The reasonableness of the Act or Code’s application in a particular
case;
   (B)   The extent to which the granting of a variance or extension of time
will pose a violation of the Act or Code or an unsafe condition;
   (C)   The availability of professional or technical personnel needed to come
into compliance;
   (D)   The availability of materials and equipment needed to come into
compliance;
   (E)   The efforts being made to come into compliance as quickly as possible;
and
   (F)   The compensatory features that will provide for an equivalent degree
of protection to the Act or Code.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.22 ACCESSIBILITY.
   The Board may not act upon appeals, requests for variance or extension of
time relating to accessibility issues under the Act or Code. Such appeals,
requests for variance and/or extensions of time relating to accessibility shall
be brought before the Accessibility Advisory Board as provided by law.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.23 BOARD DECISION.
   The Board may deny any request in whole or in part, grant any requests in
whole or in part, or grant a request upon certain conditions being met. The
Board shall provide written notice of its decision to the owner, the Code
Administrator of the participant and to each participant.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.24 SUSPENSION OF ACTION.
   An appeal from the decision of the Code Administrator or request for
variance and/or extension of time to the Board will automatically suspend an
action to enforce an order to correct until the decision of the Board.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an action under § 403.84 (relating to unsafe
building, structure or equipment) will not be stayed.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.25 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Board shall recommend a fee schedule to the participant for appeal
hearings, requests for variances and/or requests for extension of time. The fee
schedule shall be set and adopted by the individual participants, and may be
reviewed and revised thereafter. The general expenses and costs of the Board
shall be shared equally between the participants. However, when a hearing is
requested, the participant which is the subject of the hearing, shall be
responsible for fees related thereto, including, but not limited to, costs for
advertising, stenographer and the like. The Board may appoint a solicitor to
serve as its legal counsel. In the event a solicitor is appointed by the Board,
the fees of such solicitor shall be shared equally between the participants.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.26 WITHDRAWAL OF BOARD MEMBER.
   If a participant wishes to withdraw from the Board, such participant shall
provide one year’s written notice thereof to the other participants.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
§ 150.27 AMENDMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter may only be amended by written ordinance adopted by all of
the participants, other than those participants who have withdrawn from the
agreement. Such amendment shall not become effective until the last participant
under this agreement has adopted such ordinance and amendment.
(Ord. 118, passed 12-27-2007)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Intent
   
151.002   Applicability
   
151.003   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.004   Severability
   
151.005   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.020   Building permits required
   
151.021   Issuance of building permits
   
151.022   Application procedures and requirements
   
151.023   Review by County Conservation District
   
151.024   Review of application by others
   
151.025   Changes
   
151.026   Placards
   
151.027   Start of construction
   
151.028   Inspection and revocation
   
151.029   Fees
   
151.030   Appeals of estimate of costs
   
151.031   Enforcement
   
151.032   Appeals of action or decision
Identification of Floodplain Areas
   
151.045   Designation of floodplain areas
   
151.046   Changes in floodplain area delineations
   
151.047   Disputes
Technical Provision
   
151.060   General
   
151.061   Special requirements for FW, FE and FA areas
   
151.062   Elevation and flood-proofing requirements
   
151.063   Design and construction standards
   
151.064   Development which may endanger human life
   
151.065   Special requirement for manufactured homes
Activities Requiring Special Permits
   
151.080   General
   
151.081   Special permit application requirements
   
151.082   Application review procedures
   
151.083   Special technical requirements
Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   
151.095   Existing structures
Variances
   
151.110   General
   
151.111   Variance procedures and conditions
Definitions
   
151.125   General
   
151.126   Specific definitions
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to the public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage; and
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governments
units, and its residents, by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the township unless a building permit has been
obtained from the Zoning and Codes Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except as herein provided to the contrary, all procedures and
requirements with respect to applications for and issuance of building permits
shall be in conformity with the provisions of the township building permit
ordinance(s) and the township zoning ordinance and subdivision and land
development ordinance.
   (C)   A building permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.003 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any other conflicting provisions which may be in
effect in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions
shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are
more restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of
this chapter, the more restrictive shall apply. Furthermore, all ordinances and
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.004 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.005 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on acceptable
engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas
outside any identified floodplain area, or that land uses permitted within such
areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Building permits shall be required before any constriction or development is
undertaken within any area of the township.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.021 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer and Building Code Official shall issue a building
permit only after it has been determined that the proposed work to be
undertaken will be in conformance with the requirements of this and all other
applicable codes and ordinances of this township.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Zoning Officer and
Building Code Official shall review the application for the permit to determine
if all other necessary governmental permits required by state and federal laws
have been obtained, such as those required by Act 537, the Pennsylvania Sewage
Facilities Act, being 35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.; the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and
Encroachment Act, 32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.; the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33
U.S.C. § 1134; and the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act, 35 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.
No permit shall be issued until this determination has been made.
   (C)   (1)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be
made to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected
by such action have been notified by the township and until all required
permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection, Regional Office, Wilkes-Barre.
      (2)   In addition, the Federal Insurance Administration, FEMA and the
Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development shall be notified
by the township prior to any alteration or relocation of any watercourse.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.022 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The application for such a building permit shall be made, in
writing, to the Zoning Officer and Building Code Official, on forms supplied by
the township.
      (2)   Such applications shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction
is to occur;
         (c)   Name and address of contractor;
         (d)   Site location;
         (e)   Listing of other permits required;
         (f)   Brief description of proposed work and estimated costs; and
         (g)   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
   (B)   If any proposed construction or development is located within, or
partially within, any identified floodplain area, applicants for building
permits and special permits shall also provide the following specific
information:
      (1)   A plan of the entire site, drawn at a scale of one inch being equal
to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (a)   North arrow, scale and date;
         (b)   A location map showing the vicinity in which the proposed
activity or development is to be located within the municipality;
         (c)   Topography based upon the National Geodetic Vertical Datum
showing existing and proposed contours at intervals of two feet;
         (d)   All property and lot lines including dimensions, and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet;
         (e)   The location of all existing streets, drives and other
accessways with information concerning widths, pavement types, and
construction, and elevations;
         (f)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourse
buildings, structures and other public or private facilities, and any other
natural or human-made features affected, or affecting by, the proposed activity
or development;
         (g)   The location of the identified floodplain area boundary line,
floodway line if available, information and spot elevations and information
concerning the flow of water including direction and velocities; and
         (h)   A general plan of the entire site accurately showing the
location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures and any other
improvements, including the location of any existing or proposed subdivision
and land development in order to assure that:
            1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
            2.   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
            3.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
      (2)   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (a)   Detailed architectural or engineering or drawings including
building size, floor plans, sections and exterior building elevations, as
appropriate;
         (b)   The proposed lowest floor elevation (including basement) of any
proposed building based upon National Geodetic Vertical Datum;
         (c)   Complete information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a 100-
year flood;
         (d)   Detailed information concerning any proposed flood-proofing
measures;
         (e)   Cross-section drawings for all proposed streets, drives and
other accessways and parking areas, showing all right-of-way and pavement
widths;
         (f)   Profile drawings for all proposed streets, drives and vehicular
accessways including existing and proposed grades;
         (g)   Plans and profiles of all proposed sanitary and storm sewer
systems, water supply systems, and other utilities and facilities; and
         (h)   Soil types.
      (3)   The following data and documentation:
         (a)   1.   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect which states that the proposed construction has been adequately
designed to withstand the 100-year flood elevations, pressures, velocities,
impact and uplift forces and other hydrostatic, hydrodynamic and buoyancy
factors associated with the 100-year flood; and
            2.   Such statement shall include a description of the type and
extent of flood-proofing measures which have been incorporated into the design
of the structure and/or the development.
         (b)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §§
151.063(G) and 151.064, including:
            1.   The amount, location and purposes of any materials or
substances referred to in §§
151.063(G) and 151.064 which are intended to be used, produced, stored or
otherwise maintained on site;
            2.   For any proposed structure regulated under §
151.063, a description of the safeguards incorporated into the design of the
structure to prevent leaks or spills of the above mentioned materials or
substances during a 100-year flood;
            3.   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development;
            4.   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting
the requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement
and maintain erosion and sedimentation control; and
            5.   Where a nonresidential structure is intended to be made water-
tight below the base flood level:
               a.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall
develop and/or review structural design, specifications and plans for the
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are
in accordance with the accepted standards of provisions of NFIP §§ 60.3(c)(3)
(ii) or 60.3(c)(8)(ii); and
               b.   A record of such certifications which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to the mean sea level) to which such structures are
flood-proofed shall be maintained by the township.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.023 REVIEW BY COUNTY CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the Zoning and Codes Enforcement Officer to the County
Conservation District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   (B)   The recommendations of the County Conservation District shall be
considered by the Zoning Officer and Building Code Official for possible
incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.024 REVIEW OF APPLICATION BY OTHERS.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Zoning Officer and Building Code Official to any other
appropriate agencies and/or individuals (e.g., the Township Planning
Commission, the Township Engineer and the like) for review and comment.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.025 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a building permit by the Zoning Officer and Building
Code Official, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit
or any of the plans, specifications or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Zoning Officer and
Building Code Official. Requests for any such change shall be in writing, and
shall be submitted by the applicant to the Zoning Officer and Building Code
Official for consideration.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.026 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the building permit, the Zoning Officer and Building Code
Official shall issue a placard which shall be displayed on the premises during
the time construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the
building permit, the date of its issuance and be signed by the Zoning Officer
and Building Code Official.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.027 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Start of construction shall include substantial improvement, and means
the date the building permit was issued; provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within
180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of the
slab or footings, the installation of piers, the construction of columns or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footing, piers,
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structures.
   (B)   The entire building or structure shall be completed according to the
filed and approved plans upon which the issuance of the permit was based within
one year of the issuance of said permit.
   (C)   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is
submitted by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause
for the Zoning Officer and Building Code Official or approve such a request.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.028 INSPECTION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   During the construction period, the Zoning Officer and Building Code
Official or other duly authorized official shall inspect the premises to
determine that the work is progressing in compliance with the information
provided on the permit application and with all applicable township laws and
ordinances. He or she shall make as many inspections during and upon completion
of the work as are necessary.
   (B)   In the discharge of his or her duties, the Zoning Officer and Building
Code Official shall have the authority to enter any building, structure,
premises or development in the identified floodplain area, upon presentation of
proper credentials, at any reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   In the event that the Zoning Officer and Building Code Official
discovers that the work does not comply with the permit application or
applicable laws and ordinances, or that there has been a false statement or
misrepresentation by any applicant, the Zoning Officer and Building Code
Official shall revoke the building permit and report such fact to the Board of
Supervisors for whatever action it considers necessary.
   (D)   A record of all such inspections and violations of this chapter shall
be maintained at the township offices.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.029 FEES.
   Applications for the building permits shall be accompanied by a fee, payable
to the township, based upon the township’s most current fee schedule which can
be found in the township office.
§ 151.030 APPEALS OF ESTIMATE OF COSTS.
   Any person aggrieved by the Zoning Officer’s estimate of the costs of the
proposed construction may appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must
be filed, in writing, within 30 days after the determination by the Zoning
Officer. Upon receipt of such appeal, the Zoning Hearing Board shall set a time
and place not less than ten nor more than 30 days for the purpose of hearing
the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing of the appeal shall be
given to all parties at which time they may appear and be heard. The
determination of the estimated cost by the Zoning Hearing Board shall be final
in all cases.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.031 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Zoning Officer and Building Code Official or other
authorized municipal representative determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this
chapter, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Zoning Officer and
Building Code Official shall give notice of such alleged violation as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served personally upon the property owner or his or her agent,
as the case may required, by certified mail, return receipt requested,
restricted delivery; provided, however, that such notice or order shall be
deemed to have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy
thereof has been served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required by the laws of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will affect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.032 APPEALS OF ACTION OR DECISION.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an action or decision of the Zoning Officer,
and Building Code Official refusing to grant a modification to the provisions
of this chapter covering the development of land or the manner of construction
or materials to be used in the erection, alternation, modification and the like
of a building or structure, or by any of the requirements of this chapter, may
appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing,
within 30 days after the decision or action of the Zoning Officer and Building
Code Official.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such appeal, the Zoning Hearing Board shall set a time
and place within not less than ten nor more than 30 days, for the purpose of
considering the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal will
be considered shall be given to all parties.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by an decision of the Zoning Hearing Board may
seek relief therefrom by appeal to the Court of Common Pleas as provided by the
laws of this commonwealth including the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act,
being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
IDENTIFICATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.045 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the areas considered to be floodplain
within the township shall be those areas identified as being subject to the
100-year flood in the Flood Insurance Study prepared for the township by the
Federal Insurance Administration dated November, 1999, and the accompanying
maps prepared for the township by FEMA, or the most recent revision thereof.
   (B)   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas:
      (1)   FW (Floodway Area). The areas identified as “Floodway” in the AE
Zone in the Flood Insurance Study prepared by FEMA. The term shall also include
floodway areas which have been identified in other available studies or sources
of information for those floodplain areas where no floodway has been identified
in the Flood Insurance Study;
      (2)   FF (Flood-Fringe Area). The remaining portions of the 100-year
floodplain in those areas identified as an AE Zone in the Flood Insurance
Study, where a floodway has been delineated. The basis for the outermost
boundary of this area shall be the 100-year flood elevations as shown in the
flood profiles contained in the Flood Insurance Study; and
      (3)   FA (General Floodplain Area). The areas identified as Zone A in the
FIS for which no 100- year flood elevations have been provided. When available,
information from other federal, state and other acceptable sources shall be
used to determine the 100-year elevation, as well as a floodway area if
possible. When, no other information is available, the 100-year elevation shall
be determined by using a point on the boundary of the identified floodplain
area which is nearest the construction site in question.
   (C)   In lieu of the above, the township may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the township.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.046 CHANGES IN FLOODPLAIN AREA DELINEATIONS.
   (A)   The areas considered to be floodplain may be revised or modified by
the Board of Supervisors where studies or information provided by a qualified
agency or person documents the need or possibility of such revision.
   (B)   No modification or revision of any floodplain area identified in the
Flood Insurance Study prepared by the Federal Insurance Administration shall be
made without prior approval from the Federal Insurance Administration.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.047 DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute arise concerning the identification of any floodplain area,
an initial determination shall be made by the Planning Commission and any party
aggrieved by such decision may appeal to the Board of Supervisors. The burden
of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
TECHNICAL PROVISION
§ 151.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   No encroachment, alteration or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by
such action have been notified by the municipality and until all required
permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection, Regional Office, Wilkes-Barre.
   (B)   In addition, the Federal Insurance Administrator and Pennsylvania
Department of Community and Economic Development shall be notified prior to any
alteration or relocation of any watercourse. Any new construction, development,
uses or activities allowed within any identified floodplain area shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the provisions contained in this chapter
and any other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.061 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FW, FE AND FA AREAS.
   (A)   With any FW (Floodway Area), the following provisions apply.
      (1)   Any new construction, development, use, activity or encroachment
that would cause any increase in flood heights shall be prohibited.
      (2)   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of
Dams, Waterways and Wetlands.
   (B)   Within any FE (Special Floodplain Area), no new construction or
development shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase in elevation of the 100-year flood
more than one foot at any point.
   (C)   Within any FE (Special Floodplain Area) or FA (General Floodplain
Area), the following provisions apply.
      (1)   No new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse, unless a
permit is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of
Dams, Waterways and Wetlands.
      (2)   Any new construction or development, which would cause any increase
in flood heights shall be prohibited within any floodplain area.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.062 ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures. Within any FW, FF or FA, the lowest floor
(including basement) of any new or improved residential structures shall be at
least one and one-half feet above the 100-year flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   Within any FW, FF or FA, the lowest floor (including basement)
shall be at least one and one-half feet above the 100-year flood elevation, or
be designed and constructed so that the space enclosed by such structure shall
remain either completely or essentially dry during any flood up to that height.
      (2)   Any structure, or part thereof, which will not be completely or
adequately elevated, shall be designed and constructed to be completely or
essentially dry in accordance with the standards contained in the publication
entitled Flood-Proofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June, 1972
as amended March 1992), or some other equivalent standard, for that type of
construction.
   (C)   Space below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed space below the lowest floor (including basement) is
prohibited.
      (2)   (a)   Partially enclosed space below the lowest floor (including
basement) which will be used solely for the parking of a vehicle, building
access or incidental storage in an area other than a basement, shall be
designed and constructed to allow for the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces on exterior walls.
The term “partially enclosed space” also includes crawl spaces.
         (b)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like,
or other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters.
   (D)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
need not be elevated or floodproofed to remain dry, but shall comply, at a
minimum, with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be designed or used for human habitation,
but shall be limited to the parking of vehicles, or to the storage of tools,
materials and equipment related to the principal use or activity.
      (2)   Floor area shall not exceed 600 square feet.
      (3)   The structure will have a low damage potential.
      (4)   The structure will be located on the site so as to cause the least
obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
      (5)   Power lines, wiring and outlets will be at least one and one-half
feet above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (6)   Permanently affixed utility equipment and appliances such as
furnaces, heaters, washers, dryers and the like are prohibited.
      (7)   Sanitary facilities are prohibited.
      (8)   The structure shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or
movement and shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwater for the purposes of equalizing hydrostatic forces on the walls.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers and the like or
other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.063 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction proposed to
be undertaken within any identified floodplain area.
   (A)   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
      (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from all
points;
      (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted;
      (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and resistance
to erosion, scouring or setting;
      (4)   Be no steeper than one vertical to two horizontal, unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes are submitted to, and approved by
the Zoning and Codes Enforcement Officer; and
      (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Drainage. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to convey the
flow of stormwater runoff in a safe and efficient manner. The system shall
ensure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive drainage away from
buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the discharge of excess
runoff onto adjacent properties.
   (C)   Water and sanitary sewer facilities and systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement sanitary sewer facilities, and private
package sewage treatment plants (including all pumping stations and collector
systems) shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into the floodwaters. In
addition, they should be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage and impairment.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to prevent
the discharge of untreated sewage into floodwaters.
      (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all state and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
   (D)   Other utilities. All other utilities, such as gas lines, electrical
and telephone systems, shall be located, elevated (where possible) and
constructed to minimize the change of impairment during a flood.
   (E)   Streets. The finished elevation of proposed new streets shall be not
more than one foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
   (F)   Utilities. All utilities such as gas lines, electrical and telephone
systems shall be placed above the regulatory flood elevation and/or located so
as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (G)   Storage. All materials that are bouyant, flammable, explosive, or in
times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, and not
listed in §
151.064 shall be stored at or above the regulatory flood elevation and/or
floodproofed to the maximum extent possible.
   (H)   Placement of buildings and structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of floodwater.
   (I)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent floatation, collapse or lateral
movement.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks and other similar objects
or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be securely
anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
   (J)   Floors, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring, perpendicular
to the flooring grain without causing structural damage to the building.
      (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be of
a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
      (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory floor elevation shall
be designed and constructed of materials that are water-resistant and will
withstand inundation.
      (4)   Windows, doors and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or water-resistant materials.
   (K)   Paints and adhesives.
      (1)   Paints or other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of a “marine” or “water-resistant paint” or other finishing
material.
      (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
      (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim cabinets and the like) shall be
finished with a “marine” or “water-resistant paint” or other finishing
material.
   (L)   Electrical systems and components.
      (1)   Electric water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning and ventilating
systems, and other electrical equipment or apparatus shall be placed above the
regulatory flood elevation and/or located so as to prevent water from entering
or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
      (2)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least three feet above
the 100-year flood elevation.
      (3)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall be
dropped from above.
   (M)   Plumbing.
      (1)   Water heaters, furnaces, and other mechanical equipment or
apparatus shall be placed above the regulatory flood elevation and/or located
so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of flooding.
      (2)   All on-site sewage disposal systems shall be designed and
constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into the floodwaters. In addition, they
should be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage and
impairment.
      (3)   All gas and oil supply systems shall be designed to prevent the
infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from the system into
floodwaters. Additional provisions shall be made for the drainage of these
systems in the event that floodwater infiltration occurs.
   (N)   Use of openings in enclosures below a structure’s lowest floor.
      (1)   For all new construction and substantial improvement, fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry of floodwaters.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to the
flooding shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.064 DEVELOPMENT WHICH MAY ENDANGER HUMAN LIFE.
   (A)   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, being
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of
Community and Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or
substantially improved structure which will be used for the production or
storage of any of the following materials or substances or which will be used
for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply (more than 440 gallons
or other comparable volume or any amount of radioactive substances) of any of
the following materials or substances on the premises, shall be subject to the
provisions of this section, in addition to all other applicable provisions:
      (1)   Acetone;
      (2)   Ammonia;
      (3)   Benzene;
      (4)   Calcium carbide;
      (5)   Carbon disulfide;
      (6)   Celluloid;
      (7)   Chlorine;
      (8)   Hydrochloric acid;
      (9)   Hydrocyanic acid;
      (10)   Magnesium;
      (11)   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen;
      (12)   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel, oil and the like);
      (13)   Phosphorus;
      (14)   Potassium;
      (15)   Sodium;
      (16)   Sulphur and sulphur products;
      (17)   Pesticides (including insecticides, fungicides and rodenticides);
and
      (18)   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not
otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Within any FW (Floodway Area), any structure of any kind described in
division (A) above shall be prohibited.
   (C)   (1)   Within any FF (Flood-Fringe Area) or FA (General Floodplain
Area), any structure of the kind described in division (A) above shall be:
         (a)   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up
to at least one and one-half feet above the 100-year flood; and
         (b)   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity
during the course of a 100- year flood.
      (2)   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the
regulatory flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the standards for completely dry flood-proofing contained in the publication
Flood-Proofing Regulations (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972 as amended
March 1992), or with some other equivalent water-tight standard.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.065 SPECIAL REQUIREMENT FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Within any FW (Floodway Area), manufactured homes shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Within any FA (General Floodplain Area) or FE (Special Floodplain
Area), manufactured homes shall be prohibited within the area measured 50 feet
landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse.
   (C)   Where permitted within any floodplain area, all manufactured homes,
and any improvement thereto, shall be:
      (1)   Placed on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is one
and one-half feet or more above the elevation of the 100-year flood; and
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
ACTIVITIES REQUIRING SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 151.080 GENERAL.
   In accordance with the Department of Community and Economic Developments,
administrative regulations implementing the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management
Act (Act 1978-166) being 32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq., the following obstructions
and activities are prohibited if located entirely or partially within an
identified floodplain area unless a special permit is issued:
   (A)   Hospitals (public or private);
   (B)   Nursing homes (public or private);
   (C)   Jails or prisons; and
   (D)   New manufactured home parks and manufactured subdivisions, and
substantial improvements to such existing parks and subdivisions.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.081 SPECIAL PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Application for a special permit shall consist of at least five copies of
the following items:
   (A)   A written request which includes the information specified in §
151.022 pertaining to building permit application procedures; and
   (B)   The following documentation:
      (1)   Certification from the applicant that the site upon which the
activity or development is proposed is an existing and single parcel, owned by
the applicant or the client he or she represents;
      (2)   Certification from a registered professional engineer, architect or
landscape architect that the proposed construction has been adequately designed
to protect against damage from a 100-year flood;
      (3)   A statement, certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect or other qualified person which contains a
complete and accurate description of the nature and extent of pollution that
might possibly occur from the development during the course of a 100-year
flood, including a statement concerning the effects such pollution may have on
human life;
      (4)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer or
landscape architect which contains a complete and accurate description of the
effects that proposed development will have on 100- year flood elevations and
flows;
      (5)   A statement certified by a registered professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, which contains a complete and accurate
description of the kinds and amount of any loose bouyant materials or debris
that may possibly exist or be located on the site below the 100-year flood
elevations and flows;
      (6)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s Planning Module for Land Development;
      (7)   Where any evacuation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the development of environmental protection to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control;
      (8)   Any other applicable permits such as, but not limited to, a permit
for any activity regulated by the Department of Environment Protection under §
302 of Act 1978-166; and
      (9)   An evacuation plan which fully explains the manner in which the
site will be safely evacuated before or during the course of a 100-year flood.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.082 APPLICATION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   Upon receipt of an application for special permit by the township, the
following procedures shall apply in addition to those contained in §§
151.020 through
151.032.
   (A)   Within three working days following receipt of the application, a
complete copy of the application and all accompanying documentation shall be
forwarded to the County Planning Commission by registered or certified mail for
its review and recommendation. Copies of the application shall also be
forwarded to the Township Planning Commission and the Township Engineer for
review and comment.
   (B)   If an application is received that is incomplete, the township shall
notify the applicant, in writing, stating in what respect the application is
deficient.
   (C)   If the township decides to disapprove an application, it shall notify
the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval.
   (D)   If the township approves an application, it shall file written
notification, together with the application and all pertinent information, with
the Department of Community and Economic Development, by registered or
certified mail, within five working days after the date of approval.
   (E)   Before issuing this special permit, the township shall allow the
Department of Community and Economic Development 30 days, after receipt of the
notification by the Department, to review the application and the decision made
by the township.
   (F)   If the township does not receive any communication from the Department
of Community and Economic Development during the 30-day review period, it may
issue a special permit to the applicant.
   (G)   If the Department of Community and Economic Development should decide
to disapprove an application, it shall notify the township and the applicant,
in writing, of the reasons for the disapproval and the township shall not issue
the special permit.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.083 SPECIAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the requirements of §§
151.060 through
151.065, the following minimum requirements shall also apply to any proposed
development requiring a special permit.
      (2)   If there is any conflict between any of the following requirements
and those in §§
151.060 through
151.065 or in any other code, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (B)   No application for a special permit shall be approved unless it can be
determined that the structure or activity will be located, constructed and
maintained in a manner which will:
      (1)   Fully protect the health and safety of the general public and any
occupants. At a minimum, all new structures shall be designed, located and
constructed so that:
         (a)   The structure will survive inundation by waters of the 100-year
flood without any lateral movement or damage to either the structure itself, or
to any of its equipment or contents below the 100-year flood elevation;
         (b)   The lowest floor (including basement) elevation will be at least
one and one-half feet above the 100-year flood elevation; and
         (c)   The occupants of the structure can remain inside for an
indefinite period of time and be safely evacuated at any time during the 100-
year flood.
      (2)   Prevent any significant possibility of pollution, increased flood
levels or flows, or debris endangering life and property.
   (C)   All hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by
professional engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. Studies, analyses, computation and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
township and the Department of Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
EXISTING STRUCTURES IN IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREAS
§ 151.095 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   Structures existing in any identified floodplain areas prior to the
enactment of this chapter, but which are not in compliance with these
provisions, may continue to remain subject to the following.
   (A)   Existing structures located in any identified floodway areas shall not
be expanded or enlarged, unless the effect of the proposed expansion or
enlargement on flood heights is fully offset by accompany improvements.
   (B)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50% or more of its
market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest extent
possible.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
VARIANCES
§ 151.110 GENERAL.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this chapter would result in
an exceptional hardship for a prospective builder, developer or landowner, the
township may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application of the
requirements.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.111 VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   Requests for variances shall be considered by the township in accordance
with the following.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted for any construction development, use or
activity within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the 100-year
flood elevation.
   (B)   Except for a possible modification of the one and one-half foot
freeboard requirement involved, no variance shall be granted for any of the
other requirements pertaining specifically to development regulated by special
permit (§§
151.080 through
151.083) or to development which may endanger human life (§
151.064).
   (C)   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
   (D)   In granting any variance, the township shall attach whatever
reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
   (E)   Whenever a variance is granted, the township shall notify the
applicant in writing that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance; and
      (2)   Such variances may increase the risks of life and property.
   (F)   In reviewing any request for a variance, the township shall consider,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   There is good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not result in the unacceptable or
prohibited increase in flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on, or
victimization of the public, or conflict with any other applicable federal,
state or local ordinance and regulations.
   (G)   A complete record of all variance requests and related actions shall
be maintained by the township. In addition, a report of all variances granted
during the year shall be included in the annual report to the Federal Insurance
Administration.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 100-year
flood.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.125 GENERAL.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.126 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor below ground level on
all sides.
   BUILDING. A combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   COMPLETELY DRY SPACE. A space which will remain totally dry during flooding;
the structure is designed and constructed to prevent the passage of water and
water vapor.
   CONSTRUCTION. The construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair
extension, expansion, alternation or relocation of a building or structure,
including the placement of manufactured homes.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; and the subdivision of land.
   ESSENTIALLY DRY SPACE. A space which will remain dry during flooding, except
for the passage of some water vapor or minor seepage; the structure is
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   FLOOD. A temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. A relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any are subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The designated area of a floodplain required to carry and
discharge floodwaters of a given magnitude. For the purposes of this chapter,
the FLOODWAY shall be capable of accommodating a flood of the 100-year
magnitude.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   IDENTIFIED FLOODPLAIN AREA. The floodplain area specifically identified in
this chapter as being inundated by the 100-year flood. Included would be areas
identified as Floodway (FW), Flood-Fringe (FF) and General Floodplain (FA).
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. Any of the following activities:
      (1)   The improvement of one lot or two or more contiguous lots, tracts
or parcels of land for any purpose involving:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single nonresidential building
on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the LOWEST FLOOR of a building;
provided that such space is not designed and built so that the structure is in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling intended for
permanent occupancy, office or place of assembly, contained in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis, which arrives at a site complete and
ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly
operations, and constructed so that it may be used with or without a permanent
foundation. The term includes park trailers, travel trailers or other similar
vehicles which are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership which has
been planned and improved for the placement of two or more manufactured homes
for non-transient use.
   MINOR REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of requirements; nor shall MINOR
REPAIRS include addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any
standpipe water supply, sewer, drainage piping, electric wiring or mechanical
or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after May 6, 1987, and includes any subsequent improvements thereto.
   ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood that, on the average, is likely to
occur once every 100-years (i.e., that has 1% chance of occurring each year,
although the flood may occur in any year).
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever, which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The 100-year flood elevation plus a freeboard
safety factor of one and one-half feet.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails and new manufactured home parks and substantial improvements to
such existing parks, when such development is located in all, or a designated
portion, of a floodplain.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground including, but not limited to, buildings, sheds, manufactured homes and
other similar items.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, transfer or ownership, or building, or lot development;
provided, however, that the division of land for agricultural purposes into
parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access, shall be exempted.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% or more of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Codes Enforcement Official and which
are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or who fails or refuses to comply with any notice,
order of direction of the Zoning and Codes Enforcement Officer or any other
authorized employee of the township shall be guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction, shall pay a fine to the township of not less than $25 not more than
$600 plus costs of prosecution. In default of such payment, such person shall
be imprisoned in the county prison for a period not to exceed ten days. Each
day during which any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are
hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of
this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliances within a reasonable
time. Any development initiated or any structure or building constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered or relocated, in noncompliance with this
chapter may be declared by the Township Board of Supervisors to be a public
nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 43C, passed 11-1-2001)
CHAPTER 152: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
Little Lehigh Creek Watershed
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
Perkiomen Creek Headwaters
   
152.15   Adopted by reference
Saucon Creek Headwaters
   
152.30   Adopted by reference
LITTLE LEHIGH CREEK WATERSHED
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Little Lehigh Creek Watershed Act 167 Stormwater Management Ordinance,
and its amendments, copies of which are on file in the township offices, is
adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein.
(Ord. 48, passed 1-3-1989; Ord. 106, passed 3-3-2005; Ord. 106A, passed 2-7-
2013)
PERKIOMEN CREEK HEADWATERS
§ 152.15 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Perkiomen Creek Headwaters Act 167 Stormwater Management Ordinance,
copies of which are on file in the township offices, is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 129, passed 12-29-2010)
SAUCON CREEK HEADWATERS
§ 152.30 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Saucon Creek Headwaters Act 167 Stormwater Management Ordinance, copies
of which are on file in the township offices, is adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 133, passed 2-7-2013)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Southwestern Lehigh County Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by
reference. A full copy of the resolution can be found in the township office.
(Res. 2017-043, passed 11-16-2017)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Short title
   
154.003   Purposes
   
154.004   Applicability
   
154.005   Exemptions
   
154.006   Interpretation
   
154.007   Modifications and waivers
   
154.008   Fees
   
154.009   Revised plans, alternate plans and resubdivisions
   
154.010   Township records
   
154.011   Amendments to this chapter
   
154.012   Appeals to courts
   
154.013   Enforcement
   
154.014   Liability
   
154.015   Severability
   
154.016   Repealer
   
154.017   Pennsylvania Planning Code amendments
   
154.018   Effective date
   
154.019   Enactment
Definitions
   
154.030   General interpretation
   
154.031   Definitions
Overview of General Procedures
   
154.045   Purpose
   
154.046   General procedure for subdivisions and land developments
   
154.047   General plan submission procedures
Sketch Plan
   
154.060   Pre-plan consultation
   
154.061   Sketch plan submission requirements
   
154.062   Sketch plan review procedures
Preliminary Plans for Major Subdivisions and Certain Land Developments
   
154.075   Initial steps
   
154.076   Submission and review procedure
   
154.077   Preliminary plan requirements
   
154.078   Certification
Final Plans for Major Subdivisions and Certain Land Developments
   
154.090   Applicability
   
154.091   Submission and review procedure
   
154.092   Final plan requirements
   
154.093   Certification
Minor Subdivisions, Certain Land Developments and Lot Line Adjustments
   
154.105   Purpose
   
154.106   Submission and review procedure
   
154.107   Minor subdivision final plan requirements
   
154.108   Lot line adjustments, merger or consolidation of lots (also referred
to as reverse subdivisions) and minor revisions of approved plans
   
154.109   Certification
   
154.110   Recording plans
Improvements Guarantees
   
154.125   Guarantee of improvements installation required
   
154.126   Improvements to be provided by the applicant
   
154.127   Improvement agreement
   
154.128   Performance guarantee
   
154.129   Approval of improvements
   
154.130   Remedies to effect completion of improvements
   
154.131   Maintenance guarantee
Recording of Final Plan
   
154.145   Recording of final plan
   
154.146   Record plan
   
154.147   Effect of recording
Design Standards and Required Improvements
   
154.160   Applicability
   
154.161   Required improvements
   
154.162   Overall requirements; tree preservation; erosion control
   
154.163   Streets
   
154.164   Blocks
   
154.165   Lots; flag lots
   
154.166   Recreation areas and fees
   
154.167   Stormwater management and floodplain
   
154.168   Sewage disposal systems
   
154.169   Water supply systems
   
154.170   Other utilities; utility easements
   
154.171   Access drives and driveways
   
154.172   Off-street parking connections; interconnected parking lots
   
154.173   Curbs
   
154.174   Sidewalks, pathways and drive aprons
   
154.175   Street lighting
   
154.176   Street identification signs
   
154.177   Regulatory signs
   
154.178   Landscaping
   
154.179   Monuments and markers
Additional Standards for Mobile/Manufactured Home Parks
   
154.190   Applicability
   
154.191   Exemptions
   
154.192   Other requirements of this chapter
   
154.193   General standards and requirements
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Application Form
   
Appendix B:   Plan Statements, Forms and Letters
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   An ordinance of Upper Milford Township, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania
providing for: the regulation and control of the subdivision of lots and the
development of land; the approval of plans, plots or replots of land laid out
in building lots; standards for the design of streets, lots, easements, blocks
and other improvements; certain minimum improvements and construction standards
on streets and improvements; financial security requirements for improvements;
the administration of this ordinance by the Upper Milford Township Planning
Commission and Board of Supervisors; and penalties for the violation of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Upper Milford Township
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance” of 2010.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.003 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of these regulations is to create conditions favorable to the
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens by assisting in the orderly
and efficient integration of subdivisions; ensuring conformance of subdivision
plans with the public improvements plans of the township; ensuring sites
suitable for building purposes and human habitation; facilitating the efficient
movement of traffic and avoiding traffic hazards and congestion; securing
equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform procedures and
standards; improving land records by establishing standards for surveys and
plans; safeguarding the interests of the public, the homeowner, the subdivider
and the municipality; preserving natural and historic features; and carrying
out the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.004 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Generally. No subdivision or land development of any lot, tract or
parcel of land shall be made, and no street, sanitary sewer main, water main or
other improvements required in connection with a proposed subdivision or land
development shall be constructed, opened or dedicated for use of the public or
the occupants of the proposed subdivision or land development, and no building
that first needs land development approval shall be constructed, except in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Lot or parcel that was not a legal lot of record. A lot or parcel that
was not a legal lot of record prior to adoption of this chapter shall not be
created, sold or transferred, and no land development may occur on a lot unless
and until:
      (1)   The subdivision of the lot and/or the approval of the land
development, as applicable, has been granted final plan approval and any
subdivision has been recorded; and
      (2)   Either of the following occurs, as provided in §
154.125:
         (a)   The township has been assured by means of a development
agreement and guarantees acceptable to the Board of Supervisors that the
improvements will subsequently be installed; or
         (b)   The required improvements in connection therewith have been
entirely completed.
   (C)   Previous subdivisions. If a parent tract of land has been the subject
of the creation of two or more new lots within the previous five years, then
any subdivision submittal involving that parent tract shall be required to meet
the requirements for a major subdivision.
   (D)   Landowner. No subdivision or land development shall be submitted to
the township for review except by the landowner of such land or his or her
specifically authorized agent. See definition of “landowner” in §
154.031, which includes equitable owner.
   (E)   Zoning. All subdivisions and land developments shall comply with the
township zoning ordinance and other relevant township codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.005 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Agriculture. The subdivision by lease of land solely for agricultural
purposes into parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any new road or
easement of access or residential dwelling, shall be exempted from the
regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Revisions to township regulations after submittal of an application.
Section 508(4) of the State Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§
10508(4) shall apply.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.006 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare.
      (2)   Where provisions, standards and specifications of this chapter
conflict with those of any state statute, other ordinance or regulations, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply, regardless of its source, unless
specified to the contrary.
   (B)   Illustrations. The illustrations in this chapter are for general
illustrative purposes, and are not part of the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.007 MODIFICATIONS AND WAIVERS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   An applicant seeking a modification or waiver to this
chapter shall submit to the township staff a request in writing that states:
            1.   The specific chapter section(s) involved; and
            2.   The reasons for the request.
         (b)   The staff shall provide the request to the Planning Commission
for a recommendation. After the Planning Commission has had an opportunity for
review at a meeting, the Board of Supervisors may in writing grant a waiver or
modification to the specific requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   This section is established under § 503(8) of the State
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10503(8), which authorizes
waivers and modifications “when the literal compliance with mandatory
provisions is shown to the satisfaction of the” Board of Supervisors “to be
unreasonable, to cause undue hardship or when an alternative standard can be
demonstrated to provide equal or better results.”
      (3)   A modification involves the Supervisors approving a specific
alternative standard, while a waiver involves the Supervisors removing a
specific requirement as it pertains to an application.
   (B)   The applicant must prove that the request will meet one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Avoid an undue hardship that was not self-created and that is not
financial in nature, and that results from the peculiar and uncommon conditions
of the property;
      (2)   Avoid a clearly unreasonable requirement; or
      (3)   Allow an alternative standard that is clearly proven by the
applicant to provide equal or better results.
   (C)   Additional modifications allowed.
      (1)   In addition to the authority granted above, the Board of
Supervisors shall have the authority to modify specific requirements of this
chapter listed in division (C)(2) below for an application in order:
         (a)   To result in a higher quality site design, including a design
that is more pedestrian-friendly, encourages lower speed traffic on residential
roads and/or promotes patterns of development similar to traditional villages;
and/or
         (b)   To significantly minimize adverse impacts upon important natural
features, scenic views and historic buildings.
      (2)   A modification under this division (C) shall not be primarily
intended to result in the allowance of a higher number of lots/dwelling units
on a tract than would otherwise be possible. A modification under this section
may include the following:
         (a)   Reduction in the minimum horizontal curve radius of roads to
promote lower-speed traffic;
         (b)   Variations in the design of cul-de-sac road ends;
         (c)   Reduction of road cartway widths and provisions for alleys to
provide rear access to properties, considering the expected traffic volumes,
on-street parking and traffic speeds;
         (d)   Allowance of roadside drainage swales without curbing where
curbing is not necessary for stormwater management reasons;
         (e)   Variations in landscaping and buffer yard requirements that
still achieve a similar effect to what would otherwise be required;
         (f)   Allowance of shared driveways where necessary to minimize
impacts upon natural resources and to manage traffic access onto through roads;
and
         (g)   Allowance of flag lots where necessary to minimize impacts upon
natural resources.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.008 FEES.
   (A)   The Board of Supervisors has established a schedule of fees,
requirements for escrow accounts and a collection procedure for all
applications and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The applicant shall
pay the reasonable charges by the township’s Engineer and other professional
consultants for review of the proposed project and for related preparation of
reports and meeting time. At the time of submittal of a final plan, the
applicant shall also be required to deposit funds into the escrow account to
pay the anticipated costs of the township’s Engineer and other professional
consultants to oversee the system of financial security of improvements and for
inspections. This schedule of fees may be amended by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
   (B)   The applicant is also required to pay any review fees and/or permits
required by the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission, any utility provider and the
County Conservation District, as well as any other applicable agencies.
   (C)   Plans shall not be considered filed until all township fees are paid
and the applications are properly signed as required.
   (D)   If the expenses of the township for reviews of a subdivision or land
development exceed the total fees that have been paid or placed in escrow by an
applicant, additional funds shall be required to be deposited by the applicant.
If expenses exceed the amount placed into escrow, such excess expenses shall be
paid by the applicant prior to release of the final plans by the township for
recording. If the funds exceed the amount of the expenses, the excess shall be
refunded to the applicant.
   (E)   The most recent fee schedules are on file in the township office.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.009 REVISED PLANS, ALTERNATE PLANS AND RESUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Alternate plans. Only one preliminary or final plan concerning any one
specific area of land shall be before the township as part of an official
approval process at any one moment in time, unless specifically allowed in
advance by the Planning Commission. An applicant may submit multiple sketch
plan alternatives or plans showing various phases.
   (B)   Revisions and resubdivisions.
      (1)   Until a submission is approved or rejected by the Board of
Supervisors, the applicant may withdraw the submission and submit a revised
plan following the submission and review procedures which apply to that plan.
For any submittal of a revision of a previously submitted plan, the township
may require the applicant to submit additional amounts into an escrow account
or other fees if needed based upon the township’s expenditures on the review up
to that time.
      (2)   A revision or resubdivision of a recorded plan or a final plan
approved by the Board of Supervisors shall be considered as a new subdivision
and shall comply with all of the regulations of this chapter.
      (3)   If the township staff determines that a revision of a previously
approved plan is only to correct erroneous data or minor omissions or revise
engineering details or supporting documentation, the plan may be submitted
under the simplified requirements and procedures of §
154.108.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.010 TOWNSHIP RECORDS.
   The township staff shall keep accurate written records of all actions by the
Township Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors involving the
administration of this chapter. Such records shall be open for public review.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.011 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Amendments. The regulations set forth in this chapter may, from time
to time, be amended by the Board of Supervisors, following the procedures of
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.,
as amended, including a Supervisors public hearing (with public notice required
by the Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.) and the
required legal advertisement.
   (B)   Reviews. The township shall submit each proposed amendment (other than
an amendment prepared by or under the direction of the Planning Commission) to
the Planning Commission for recommendations at least 30 days prior to the date
set for the Supervisors’ public hearing. The township shall submit any proposed
amendment to the County Planning Commission at least 30 days before the public
hearing on such amendment.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.012 APPEALS TO COURTS.
   Decisions of the Board of Supervisors may be appealed in accordance with the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101
et seq.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.013 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inspectors. The Board of Supervisors shall authorize one or more
persons, which may include the Zoning Officer, Codes Administrator and the
Township Engineer and his or her representatives, to enforce the provisions of
this chapter and the accompanying design standards and improvement
specifications.
   (B)   Inspection. Any action under this chapter is subject to on-site
inspection by the township or its authorized representatives to ensure
compliance with this chapter, other township ordinances and the approved plans.
   (C)   Remedies. Any action inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to an enforcement notice, which may include a cease and desist
order, and other appropriate measures by the Board of Supervisors or its
authorized representatives.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.014 LIABILITY.
   Neither the approval nor the granting of any building permit, floodplain
permit, site plan review, subdivision approval, land development approval,
zoning permit, erosion review, stormwater runoff review, wetland delineation or
wetland review, steep slope review or any other review or permit of this
chapter, involving any land governed by the provisions of this chapter, by an
officer, employee, consultant or agency of the township, shall constitute a
representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by the township or its
employees, consultants, officials or agencies of the practicality or safety of
any structure, use or subdivision and shall create no liability upon, nor a
cause of action against any township body, consultant, official or employee for
any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.015 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that:
   (A)   If a court of competent jurisdiction declares any provisions of this
chapter to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, the effect of such
decision shall be limited to those provisions which are expressly stated in the
decision to be invalid or ineffective, and all other provisions of this chapter
shall continue to be separately and fully effective; and
   (B)   The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed
this chapter and each section or part thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections or parts thereof be declared invalid.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.016 REPEALER.
   All other township ordinances or parts thereof that were adopted prior to
this chapter and are clearly in conflict with this chapter, including the pre-
existing subdivision and land development ordinance, as amended, except any
provisions that are specifically referenced by this chapter, are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.017 PENNSYLVANIA PLANNING CODE AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter that only repeat, summarize or reference
provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq. shall be deemed to be automatically superseded and replaced by
any applicable amendments to such provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. at the date such amendments
become effective as state law.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.018 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective five days after enactment by the Board
of Supervisors.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.019 ENACTMENT.
   Enacted and ordained into an ordinance this day of March 18, 2010.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
DEFINITIONS
§ 154.030 GENERAL INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, words and terms used herein shall be
interpreted as listed in §
154.031.
   (B)   If a word is not defined by this chapter, but is defined by the zoning
ordinance as amended, then the zoning ordinance definition shall apply to this
chapter.
   (C)   The word “includes” shall mean to specifically include an item but not
necessarily be limited to such items.
   (D)   Any word or term not defined in this subchapter or the zoning
ordinance have a meaning of standard usage as determined by the Planning
Administrator, within the context of the word’s use within the applicable
section of this chapter.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING LOTS. Two lots that are directly contiguous and/or are only
separated from each other by a railroad or a creek. See also ADJACENT LOTS.
   ACCESS DRIVE. A private minor vehicular right-of-way, other than a road/
street or a driveway, providing access from a road/street to three or more
principal buildings within one lot.
   ADJACENT LOTS. Two lots that are abutting or that are only separated by a
street.
   ADMINISTRATOR. See PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way of less than 20 feet right-of-way width, privately or
publicly owned, that primarily provides vehicular access to the rear of
properties and does not serve through traffic.
   APPLICANT. A landowner or developer, as defined in this section, who has
filed an application for development including his or her heirs, successors and
assigns.
   AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC VOLUME. The total number of motor vehicles traveling
on a road or street during an average weekday, other than a Friday, Saturday or
Sunday.
   BLOCK. An area of land, or a lot or group of lots, bounded by roads, public
parks, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses or bodies of water, boundary lines
of the township or by any combination of the above.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of Upper Milford Township.
   BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENT. Has the same meaning as LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   BUFFER YARD. The definition in the zoning ordinance shall apply (see §
155.051 of this code of ordinances).
   CARTWAY. The paved portion of a street used for vehicular travel, exclusive
of a paved or unpaved shoulder.
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular area required to be designed at road
intersections to avoid the placement of certain types of sight obstructions.
This triangular area is defined by lines along each road, connected by a third
longer leg of the triangle.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Upper Milford Township.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. The definition in the zoning ordinance shall apply (see §
155.051 of this code of ordinances).
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. A central sewage disposal system that serves a given
area and is not publicly owned.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A central water supply system that serves a given
area and is not publicly owned.
   CONDOMINIUM. A type of ownership arrangement, not a land use, wherein parts
of a building typically are owned separately by persons, and other parts such
as halls, stairs, parking areas and recreation areas are owned jointly by such
persons. A CONDOMINIUM may be residential, commercial or industrial in nature.
See also the definition in the State Uniform Condominium Act, 68 Pa.C.S. §§
3101 et seq. and the definition of “unit” in the State Planned Communities Act,
68 Pa.C.S. §§ 5101 et seq.
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Lehigh County Conservation District.
   CONTOUR LINE. A line on a topographical map connecting points of like
elevation.
   CROSS-SECTION. A profile of existing ground at right angles to the
centerline.
   CROWN. The height of the center of a roadway surface above its edges.
   CULVERT. A pipe, conduit or similar structure including appurtenant works,
which carries surface water.
   CURB. The raised edge of a pavement that confines surface water to the
pavement and protects the abutting land from vehicular traffic.
   CUT. To lower the level of the surface of an existing grade, or the vertical
distance from the existing ground surface to the planned grade line at a given
point.
   DAYS. Calendar days.
   DEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, and its
successor agencies.
   DEVELOPER (or SUBDIVIDER). Any landowner, agent of such landowner, or tenant
with the permission of such landowner, who makes or causes to be made a
subdivision of land or a land development.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, the placement of
mobile homes, streets and other paving, utilities, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, excavation or drilling operations and the subdivision of land, as well
as sewage disposal systems and water supply systems.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicle travelway that provides access from a street/road to one
or two lots, and which is not an access drive.
   DRIVEWAY, SHARED. A driveway that provides access to two lots.
   DWELLING TYPES. The definitions in the township zoning ordinance shall apply
(see § 155.051 of this code of ordinances).
   EASEMENT. A limited right of use granted on private land for public or
private use by another party or parties, or a protective condition, as in the
case of drainage easements for protection and/or preservation of a specified
area.
   ENGINEER, PROFESSIONAL. A person licensed to practice as a professional
engineer in the commonwealth.
   ENGINEER, TOWNSHIP. The registered professional engineer designated by the
Board of Supervisors to perform all duties required of the Township Engineer by
the provisions of this chapter.
   FARM BUILDING. A building that is primarily used for the storage of crops or
farm equipment or for the raising of livestock or poultry.
   FINISHED GRADE. The proposed elevation of the land surface of a site after
the completion of all site improvement work.
   FLOODPRONE AREA. A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a stream,
river or watercourse that is subject to partial or complete inundation; or any
area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
   GRADE. The elevation of ground or paving.
   GRADING. All construction operations between site clearing and building or
paving. GRADING includes excavating, hauling, spreading and compacting
operations.
   IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT or DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement in a form and
manner acceptable to township requiring a developer to install the improvements
required by this chapter or which appear on the official approved plans.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. Includes any of the following activities, unless such
definition is revised by a later amendment of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.:
      (1)   The improvement of one or two or more contiguous lots, tracts or
parcels of land for any purpose involving either or both of the following:
         (a)   A group of two or more residential or nonresidential buildings,
whether proposed initially or cumulatively, or a single principal
nonresidential building on a lot or lots regardless of the number of occupants
or tenure; or
         (b)   The division or allocation of land or space, whether initially
or cumulatively, between or among two or more existing or prospective occupants
by means of, or for the purpose of, streets, common areas, leaseholds,
condominiums, building groups or other features.
      (2)   A subdivision of land; and
      (3)   The following activities are excluded from the definition of LAND
DEVELOPMENT only when such LAND DEVELOPMENT involves the following:
         (a)   The conversion of an existing single-family detached dwelling or
single-family semi-detached dwelling into not more than three residential
units, unless such units are intended to be a condominium; or
         (b)   The addition of an accessory structure including a farm building
on a lot or lots subordinate to an existing principal building.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of land including the
holder of an option or contract to purchase (whether or not such option or
contract is subject to any condition), a lessee if he or she is authorized
under the lease to exercise the rights of the LANDOWNER, or any other person
having a proprietary interest in land.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. The revision or deletion of one or more lot lines in
such a way that all of the following are true:
      (1)   No new lots will be created beyond what was previously approved;
      (2)   No additional road/street segments or significant changes in
alignment are proposed other than what was previously approved;
      (3)   No additional nonconformities will be created under the township
zoning ordinance; and
      (4)   No new land development will occur other than a land development
that was previously approved or buildings to support crop farming.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot extending between and having frontage on a
minor street and either an arterial or collector street, with vehicular access
solely from the minor street. The front setback regulations of the zoning
district in which the lot is located shall apply to both street frontages.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. An agreement in a form and manner acceptable to the
Board of Supervisors requiring the developer of required improvements to make
any repairs or reconstructions and to maintain such improvements for a certain
period.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Financial security which is acceptable to the
township to secure the promise made by a developer in the maintenance agreement
that required improvements shall be maintained by the developer. (Note: these
guarantees typically include acceptable letters of credit, performance bonds,
escrow agreements, and other similar collateral or surety agreements).
   MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS. See SUBDIVISION, MAJOR and SUBDIVISION, MINOR.
   MODIFICATION. A process authorized under §
154.007 that allows the Board of Supervisors to approve a specific alternative
standard.
   MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE. The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. A flood that, on the average, is likely to occur
every 100-years, (such as that has a 1% chance of occurring each year, although
the flood may occur in any year).
   OPEN SPACE. The area of a lot unoccupied by principal or accessory
structures, streets, driveways, parking areas; but may include areas occupied
by walkways, picnic pavilions, play equipment and other noncommercial outdoor
recreation facilities.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. The definition in the zoning ordinance shall apply (see
§
155.051 of this code of ordinances).
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC. Common open space owned by a government agency or the
township for public recreation.
   ORDINANCE, THIS. The Upper Milford Township Subdivision and Land Development
Ordinance, as amended, and any provisions thereof, enacted by the Board of
Supervisors.
   PATHWAY. A pedestrian accessway which is not adjacent to a road/street or
access drive and conforms with this chapter.
   PennDOT. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Financial security which is acceptable to the Board
of Supervisors to ensure that the developer will install required improvements.
Note: this typically includes acceptable letters of credit, performance bonds,
escrow agreements, and other similar collateral or surety agreements.
   PLAN. A map of a land development or subdivision and accompanying notations.
      (1)   FINAL PLAN. A complete and exact plan identified with the title
“Final Plan” including the plan prepared for official recording as required by
this chapter.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A complete plan identified with the title
“Preliminary Plan” accurately showing proposed roads/streets and lot layout and
such other information as required by this chapter.
      (3)   SKETCH PLAN. An informal plan, identified with the title “Sketch
Plan” on the map, indicating the general layout of the proposed subdivision or
land development.
   PLANNING ADMINISTRATOR or SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The staff person(s)
charged by the Board of Supervisors with the responsibility of administering
the subdivision application submission procedure.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. Unless otherwise stated, shall mean the Upper Milford
Township Planning Commission.
   PROFILE. A line on a drawing which shows elevations of points along a
selected route. A PROFILE usually shows both ground elevations and grade
elevations.
   PUBLIC MEETING, REGULAR PLANNING COMMISSION. A regular meeting of the
Township Planning Commission at which such Commission is authorized to conduct
official action and which has been scheduled based upon an annual meeting
schedule (as may be adjusted by the Chairperson) and which is not a workshop
meeting or the official public meeting on an ordinance amendment.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. As defined by the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (Note: as of 2008, this included the following
definition: “Notice published once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the township. Such notice shall state the
time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be
considered at the hearing. The first publication shall not be more than 30 days
and the second publication shall not be less than seven days from the date of
the hearing.”)
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewage disposal system that is owned and operated by a local
government authority or by a local public utility company controlled by a
government authority.
   PUBLIC WATER. A water supply system that is owned and operated by a local
government authority or by a local public utility company controlled by a
government authority.
   RECREATION LAND. Land intended for noncommercial recreation by residents of
a development or by the general public, and which meets the requirements of §
154.007.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A legal right of passage across land occupied or intended to
be occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric or
telecommunication transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary
or storm sewer main, shade trees or for another special use. If the RIGHT-OF-
WAY involves maintenance by a public agency, it shall be dedicated to public
use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system designed to collect, treat and dispose of
sewage from users in compliance with regulations of PennDEP and the township.
      (1)   CENTRAL SEWAGE SERVICE. Service by a sewage disposal system which
collects, treats and disposes sewage from more than one lot.
         (a)   COMMUNITY SEWER SERVICE. Service by a COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM, as
defined above.
         (b)   PUBLIC SEWAGE SERVICE. Service by PUBLIC SEWER as defined above.
      (2)   ON-LOT SEWAGE SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system which collects,
treats and disposes of sewage or holds sewage from only one lot.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian accessway which is adjacent to a road/street or
access drive and conforms to the regulations of this chapter.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The provisions in §
155.092 of the zoning ordinance shall apply.
   SOIL SURVEY. The latest version of the official soil survey of the county,
published by the U.S. Natural Resource (formerly “Soil”) Conservation Service,
or more updated and detailed information prepared by such agency.
   STATE or COMMONWEALTH. The government of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and its relevant subparts.
   STATE PLANNING CODE. The Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as
amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   STEEP SLOPE. An area of 15% or greater slope.
   STREET or ROAD. A public or private way, excluding driveways, alleys and
access drives, that affords the principal means of access to abutting
properties intended to be used by vehicular traffic or pedestrians. Includes
street, avenue, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, viaduct and any other
dedicated and accepted public right-of-way or private right-of-way. The term
STREET and ROAD shall have the same meaning. Any vehicle access that serves
three or more lots, other than an alley, shall be considered to be a STREET.
   STREET OR ROAD CLASSIFICATIONS. The functional classifications of streets/
roads shall follow the zoning ordinance. Such classifications may be amended
through an amendment of such this chapter. Streets are classified as arterial
streets, collector streets and local streets. An alley is a minor right-of-way,
privately or publicly owned, primarily for vehicular access to the rear of
properties.
   STREET OR ROAD, CUL-DE-SAC. A type of street which is terminated at one end
by a permitted turnaround and which intersects another street at the other end.
   STREET GRADE. The officially established grade of the road/street upon which
a lot fronts or, in its absence, the established grade of other roads/streets
upon which the lot abuts at the midway of the frontage of the lot thereon. If
there is no officially established grade, the existing grade of the road/street
at such midpoint shall be the STREET GRADE.
   STREET LINE. A line defining the edge of a road/street right-of-way and
separating the road/street from abutting property or lots. This is commonly
known as the STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE.
   STREET OR ROAD, MARGINAL ACCESS. A type of local road/street which is
parallel and adjacent to collector or arterial road/streets and provides access
to abutting properties.
   STREET OR ROAD, PRIVATE. A road/street that is not owned or maintained by
the state or the township.
   SUBDIVIDER. See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by any
means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development.
      (2)   The subdivision by lease of land for agricultural purposes into a
parcel of more than ten acres, not involving any new street or easement of
access or residential dwellings, is not a SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. A subdivision that does not meet the definition of a
SUBDIVISION, MINOR.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision involving not more than three total
residential or agricultural lots and which does not involve the construction of
a new street.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. The Upper Milford Township Subdivision and Land
Development Ordinance, as amended.
   SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETED. In the judgment of the Township Engineer at least
90% (based upon the cost of the required improvements for which financial
security was posted) of those improvements required as a condition for final
approval have been completed in accordance with the approved plan, so that the
project will be able to be used, occupied or operated for its intended use.
   TOWNSHIP. The Upper Milford Township, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania. Unless
otherwise stated, this shall mean the Board of Supervisors and its authorized
agents.
   TREE. A perennial woody plant having a main trunk with a diameter of one and
one-half inches or greater, unless a differing measurement is provided for a
specific purpose of this chapter.
   USGS. United States Geological Survey, or its successor agency.
   VEHICLE TRIP. A vehicle movement in one direction with the origin or
destination within the study area.
   WAIVER. A process authorized under §
154.007 that allows the Supervisors to remove a specific requirement as it
applies to an application.
   WALKWAY. A strip of land including a right-of-way dedicated to public use in
order to facilitate pedestrian access through or into a block.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial waterway, stream, river, creek,
ditch, channel, millrace, canal, conduit, gully, ravine or wash in which water
flows in a definite direction or course, either continuously or intermittently,
and which has a definite channel and bed and shall include any area adjacent
thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow of floodwaters.
   WATER, CENTRAL SYSTEM OR SERVICE. Service by a water system which transmits
water from a common source to more than one lot.
      (1)   COMMUNITY WATER SERVICE. Service by a COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM as
defined above.
      (2)   PUBLIC WATER SERVICE. Service by a PUBLIC WATER system as defined
above.
   WATER, ON-LOT SYSTEM OR SERVICE. Service by a water system which transmits
water from a source on the lot to only one lot.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
OVERVIEW OF GENERAL PROCEDURES
§ 154.045 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter summarizes the general procedures for the submission and
review of proposed subdivisions and land developments. This subchapter is only
a general explanation and is not binding on the township or an applicant. See
the actual provisions of the other subchapters of this chapter.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.046 GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Review and approval stages. Three types of plan submissions are
established: sketch, preliminary and final, as outlined below.
                                        Type of Proposed Subdivision or Land
Stage Sections of this Land Development Development*
      Chapter                           Major Subdivision Minor Subdivision or
                                                          Lot Line Adjustment
                                               Type of Proposed Subdivision
             Sections of this                  or Land Development*
Stage        Chapter          Land Development Major       Minor Subdivision
                                               Subdivision or Lot Line
                                                           Adjustment
             §§
Sketch plan  154.060 through  Recommended      Recommended Recommended
             154.062
Preliminary  §§
plan***      154.075 through  Required****     Required*** Not Required
             154.078
             §§
Final plan   154.090 through  Required         Required    Required**
             154.093
Guarantee of See §§
improvements 154.125 through                              
installation 154.131
Recording of See §§
final plan   154.145 through                              
             154.147
* See definitions in §
154.031
** See §§
154.105 through
154.110 for minor subdivision final plan submission and review requirements;
see §
154.108 for submission requirements for a lot line adjustment.
*** At their option, the Board of Supervisors may grant combined
preliminary/final plan approval if the preliminary plan submission meets the
requirements of a final plan submission and if the Board of Supervisors
determine that there are no outstanding matters
**** Except where exempted by §
154.076
 
   (B)   Sketch plan. While a sketch plan is not required, it is strongly
recommended that it be filed to allow the applicant to consult early and
informally with the Planning Commission before preparing a preliminary plan.
This will often avoid expensive redesign and delay to the applicant.
   (C)   Preliminary plan. Preliminary plans are required to be submitted for
any major subdivision and for certain land developments, as described above.
   (D)   Final plan. After approval of the preliminary plan of a major
subdivision or certain land developments, and to obtain approval of a minor
subdivision, the applicant files a final plan. A final plan must be approved
prior to recording of the plans by the county and prior to the sale of any lots
or the construction of any buildings. See §§
154.145 through
154.147.
   (E)   Guarantee of improvements installation. Where improvements are
required by this chapter, in most cases, the township will require that the
applicant enter into an improvement agreement including the posting of
financial security sufficient to guarantee the costs of any improvements which
may be required. See §§
154.125 through
154.131.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.047 GENERAL PLAN SUBMISSION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission. Sketch, preliminary and final plans and all required
accompanying information are required to be submitted to the township staff by
delivery in person.
   (B)   Attendance. The applicant or his or her duly authorized representative
should endeavor to attend the Commission meeting to discuss the filed plans. If
the applicant fails to appear at a meeting where the plans will be considered,
it may result in plan disapproval, if the township determines that it resulted
in insufficient information to render approval.
   (C)   Action by the Commission and the Board of Supervisors. The Planning
Commission advises the Board of Supervisors on proposed plans. The Board of
Supervisors has the authority to approve or deny those plans. There are time
limits in state law for approval of a subdivision or land development, unless
the applicant grants a time extension.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
SKETCH PLAN
§ 154.060 PRE-PLAN CONSULTATION.
   Prior to submitting a sketch plan, applicants for developments are
encouraged to informally discuss their proposal with the Zoning Officer and/or
other appropriate township staff. See also discussion of a site tour in §
154.075.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.061 SKETCH PLAN SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the submission of a preliminary plan, applicants are very strongly
encouraged to submit a sketch plan. A sketch plan review often allows an
applicant to save substantial time and engineering costs, because many concerns
about layout and issues concerning township ordinances can be resolved prior to
detailed engineering. This can often reduce the need for future redesign at a
more detailed stage, thereby saving the applicant significant money and time.
When submitted, sketch plans shall include the following information.
   (A)   Submission requirement. If submitted, 11 print copies of the sketch
plan and the accompanying application should be submitted to the township staff
prior to a regular Township Planning Commission meeting. It is requested that a
sketch plan be provided at least 14 days before a Planning Commission meeting
where it will be discussed.
   (B)   Drawing requirements. Any sketch plan shall be drafted to approximate
scale and is recommended to include the following as applicable:
      (1)   Boundary line of the development;
      (2)   Existing resources and site analysis map; the approximate location
of the following:
         (a)   Any concentrations of steeply sloped lands (such as 15 to 25%,
and greater than 25%);
         (b)   Locations of watercourses (with any name), natural springs,
ponds, lakes and suspected wetlands (note: where a detailed wetland study has
not been completed, applicants are requested to review the locations of
“hydric” soils in the county soil survey to provide an initial indication of
areas are likely to include some wetland areas);
         (c)   Any known sinkholes and topical depressions;
         (d)   Any areas within the 100-year floodplain;
         (e)   Suggestions from the applicant regarding possible locations of
any proposed common open space or recreation land or whether the applicant
seeks to pay recreation fees, if applicable;
         (f)   Any major easements or proposed recreation trails, existing
trails and trail easements;
         (g)   Principal buildings estimated to be 80 years or older that could
be impacted by the project;
         (h)   Major existing utility easements/rights-of-way that might affect
development layout; and
         (i)   Approximate locations of treelines and existing forested areas.
      (3)   Conceptual proposed lot and street layout with approximate areas of
lots (such as “two acres”);
      (4)   Site data including:
         (a)   Acreage of the entire tract;
         (b)   Number of lots and types of dwelling units (if residential); and
         (c)   Zoning district and major applicable lot area and setback
requirements.
      (5)   North point and scale and a tentative name of the project (may be
the developer’s name);
      (6)   Approximate proposed locations of any nonresidential buildings (if
known) and statement of the general proposed types of any nonresidential uses;
      (7)   A map showing the general location of the project in relation to
nearby roads/streets and creeks (may be a photocopy of USGS or township base
map or a commercial map);
      (8)   Tentative approximate locations of any stormwater detention basins
and any major stormwater drainage channels;
      (9)   Note stating the general methods of providing water and sewer
service;
      (10)   Names of any adjacent nonresidential uses and any zoning district
boundaries in the area; and
      (11)   Name and address of person responsible for the preparation of the
plan and the date of preparation.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.062 SKETCH PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No official action shall be taken on a sketch plan. The township shall
not be bound by comments made or not made as part of a sketch plan review.
   (B)   The township should distribute copies of the sketch plan to the
Township Engineer, the relevant township staff person and the Planning
Commission for advisory reviews.
   (C)   The sketch plan should be reviewed by the Planning Commission and the
Board of Supervisors, with any comments reported to the applicant or his or her
representative. It is recommended that the following matters be emphasized in a
review of a sketch plan:
      (1)   The suitability of areas proposed for development and areas
proposed as open space;
      (2)   The most suitable methods of providing street access, including
access points onto existing streets, and possible interconnections with
existing streets or streets within approved developments; and
      (3)   Methods to reduce the total percentage of the site that will be re-
graded, paved or de- forested.
   (D)   LVPC review: the township may forward a copy of the sketch plan to the
Lehigh Valley Planning Commission, for any informal review if the township
believes it may have significant impacts.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
PRELIMINARY PLANS FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS AND
CERTAIN LAND DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.075 INITIAL STEPS.
   (A)   Pre-submission consultation. Applicants are encouraged to informally
discuss their proposals with applicable township staff persons or other
township officials before preparing engineered plans.
   (B)   Site tour. Applicants are very strongly encouraged to cooperate in an
on-site tour of the property by township officials. This site tour should be
scheduled as soon as possible after the applicant has provided copies of a map
of existing conditions. At best, this would occur after a sketch plan has been
submitted, but before preliminary plans have been completed.
      (1)   This site tour is intended to informally:
         (a)   Familiarize township officials with the property’s existing
features, particularly including scenic views and the site’s relationship to
surrounding areas;
         (b)   Identify potential site design issues that will need to be
addressed; and
         (c)   Discuss site design concepts, including the general layout of
proposed development and open spaces.
      (2)   Comments made during the site visit shall not be binding upon the
township, and no formal action or recommendation shall be made during the site
visit.
   (C)   Sketch plan. Prior to the submission of a preliminary plan, applicants
are very strongly encouraged to submit a sketch plan. A sketch plan review
often allows an applicant to save substantial time and engineering costs,
because many concerns about layout and issues concerning township ordinances
can be resolved prior to detailed engineering. This can often reduce the need
for future redesign at a more detailed stage, thereby saving the applicant
significant money and time. No official action is required on a sketch plan, so
it will not delay the submittal of a preliminary plan.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.076 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary plan submission required.
      (1)   A preliminary plan submission for a major subdivision or land
development (except as provided in division (A)(2) below) meeting all of the
requirements of this subchapter shall be filed by the applicant and reviewed in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   A preliminary plan submission is not required for the following
applications, which instead shall meet the requirements in §§
154.105 through
154.110:
         (a)   A minor subdivision (as defined in §
154.031);
         (b)   A submission that only involves a lot line adjustment (as
defined in §
154.031) or minor adjustments to a previously approved plan as specified in §
154.108 or a merger or consolidation of lots (also referred as reverse
subdivision); or
         (c)   A land development that involves only involves the addition of
less than 3,000 square feet of building floor area on one lot without any
additional dwelling units.
   (B)   Filing and distribution.
      (1)   (a)   The applicant shall file with the township staff at least 19
calendar days prior to a regular Township Planning Commission meeting (not
including a workshop meeting):
            1.   The required fees; and
            2.   Copies of the information and plans required under §
154.077.
         (b)   Any subsequent submittal of revised plans shall be submitted at
least 19 calendar days before a Planning Commission meeting where the plans are
intended to be reviewed, unless permission is granted for a later submittal by
the Planning Administrator, particularly when a revision only involves minor
technical changes or corrections.
         (c)   When the township staff accepts a submittal for review, it is
conditioned upon the Planning Commission determining that the submission is
complete under division (C) below.
      (2)   The township staff shall forward applicable plans and documents to
the Township Planning Commission prior to or at the first regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting after a proper submission.
      (3)   Applicant’s distribution; the applicant is fully responsible for
the following:
         (a)   Contacting the appropriate utility authorities/companies, as
appropriate, including the water supplier to determine availability of service;
         (b)   Seeking at least an informal review by PennDOT of any proposed
access onto a state road, and providing PennDOT with sufficient information for
such a review;
         (c)   Determining whether any permits or approvals are needed from any
agency outside of the township, including DEP (including any obstruction to a
waterway) and the Army Corps of Engineers (including determining whether any
“wetland” will be disturbed);
         (d)   Providing a copy of the sedimentation and erosion control plans
to the County Conservation District, together with their required review fees,
if any earth disturbance is proposed, unless the applicant states in writing in
a signed letter to the township that earth disturbance will not occur until
approval of the final plan (in which case the erosion control plan may be
submitted at final plan stage);
         (e)   Adjacent municipalities: if any portion of a major subdivision
or land development:
            1.   Is proposed within 200 feet of the boundary of another
municipality; or
            2.   Would clearly have a regional impact upon another municipality
as determined by the Township Planning Commission, then the applicant shall
provide a copy of the layout plan to that municipality for an advisory review.
         (f)   Providing a copy of the plans and required fees to the Lehigh
Valley Planning Commission;
         (g)   Providing copies and making submittals to the township and
review agencies as required under Pennsylvania DEP’s sewage planning module
process, if applicable; and
         (h)   Providing materials needed by the Sewage Enforcement Officer, if
applicable.
      (4)   Notice to adjacent landowners.
         (a)   At the time of initial submittal of a preliminary plan for any
land development or major subdivision, the applicant shall mail or deliver
written notice of the proposal to all owners of property that is contiguous or
directly across a road from the subject property. Such notice shall include the
date, time and place of the first Planning Commission meeting at which the
application is expected to be reviewed, with the phone number of the township
building. Such notice shall include a brief description of the location of the
proposed subdivision or land development, and state that copies of the proposal
may be reviewed at the township building. The notice shall state that meetings
of the township on the proposal are open to the public.
         (b)   The applicant or his or her agent shall provide a written and
signed statement to certify that such notice was mailed or delivered.
      (5)   Each preliminary plan and supporting documents should seek to
incorporate any revisions recommended by the Township and Lehigh Valley
Planning Commissions, the Township Engineer and other appropriate township
officials during any sketch plan review.
      (6)   Colored layout plan: it is suggested that the applicant provide one
copy of the layout plan that is lightly colored to highlight major features
(such as paving, trees, waterways, streets, wetlands and building locations if
known) to allow clear understanding by the general public at public meetings.
      (7)   Revisions: a detailed list of revisions from a previously submitted
plan shall be provided whenever a revised plan is submitted. The developer’s
plan preparer shall certify that the list of revisions is complete.
   (C)   Review by Township Engineer.
      (1)   After the plans are duly submitted for review (unless the plans are
significantly incomplete), the Township Engineer should review the engineering
considerations of the preliminary plan and prepare a report on such
considerations to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Township Engineer may make additional reports and
recommendations to the Commission and the Board of Supervisors during review of
the plan.
      (3)   The applicant and/or his or her engineer should make reasonable
efforts to resolve technical engineering considerations outside of and prior to
Planning Commission meetings.
      (4)   A copy of findings of the Township Engineer should be sent or
handed in person to the applicant or his or her representative.
   (D)   Review by Commission. The Planning Commission shall accomplish the
following within the time limitations of the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (unless the applicant grants a
written time extension), while allowing a sufficient number of days within this
deadline for a decision by the Board of Supervisors:
      (1)   Review applicable reports received from any official reviewing
agencies;
      (2)   Provide a recommendation regarding whether the preliminary plan
submission meets the requirements of this chapter and other applicable
ordinances;
      (3)   Recommend any revisions to the submission that are needed to comply
with this chapter or that would generally improve the plan; and
      (4)   Recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the
preliminary plan submission in writing to the Board of Supervisors.
   (E)   Review and action by Board of Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors
shall:
      (1)   Review the recommendation of the Commission and any reports that
have been received from reviewing agencies;
      (2)   Determine whether the preliminary plan submission meets the
requirements of this chapter and other ordinances;
      (3)   Approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the preliminary plan
submission within the time limits required by the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. As of adoption date of this
chapter, this law requires:
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors to act not later than 90 days following
the date of the first regular meeting of the Commission held after the
preliminary plan has been properly filed for review; but in no case shall the
Board of Supervisors’ decision be made later than 90 days following the date
the submission was accepted as being filed for review, unless the applicant
grants a written extension of time; and
         (b)   No subdivision or land development shall be granted final
approval until a report is received from the County Planning Commission or
until the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded to
the County Planning Commission, whichever comes first.
   (F)   Decision by Board of Supervisors.
      (1)   The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall be in writing and
shall be communicated to the applicant personally or by mail at his or her last
known address not later than 15 days following the decision.
      (2)   Approval of the preliminary plan submission shall constitute
approval of the subdivision or land development as to the character and
intensity, but shall not:
         (a)   Constitute approval of the final plan; or
         (b)   Authorize the sale of lots or construction of buildings.
      (3)   If the preliminary plan submission is disapproved, the decision
shall: specify defects found in the submission; describe requirements which
have not been met; and cite the provisions of the statute or ordinance relied
upon in each case.
      (4)   At the discretion of the Board of Supervisors, the Board may grant
combined preliminary/final plan approval if:
         (a)   The preliminary plan submission also meets all of the
requirements of a final plan submission; and
         (b)   The Board determines that there are no significant outstanding
matters regarding the plan.
      (5)   Acceptance of conditions.
         (a)   If conditions are placed upon an approval, it shall be the
responsibility of the applicant or his or her authorized representative, in
writing, to accept or reject the conditions within a maximum of 30 days after
the date of the decision. If the applicant fails to accept or reject the
conditions within such time period, then it shall be presumed that the
applicant has accepted all of the conditions upon the approval. If the
applicant rejects any condition within such time period, then the approval
shall be rescinded, unless a decision of a court determines such condition was
not valid.
         (b)   The applicant shall be required to show compliance with all the
conditions upon the final plan approval within one year after the date of the
decision by the Board of Supervisors, unless a written extension is granted by
the Board of Supervisors.
   (G)   Final plan submission deadline.
      (1)   An applicant shall file a final plan within five years from the
date of the approval of the preliminary plan by the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   Failure to comply with this requirement shall render the
preliminary plan null and void, and a new preliminary plan submission and
approval shall be required.
   (H)   Development in stages. See §
154.091(H).
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.077 PRELIMINARY PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
154.076(A) regarding when a preliminary plan is required.
   (A)   (1)   All of the following information and materials listed in this
section are required as part of all preliminary plan submissions for any land
development and any major subdivision. This list of requirements shall serve
both:
         (a)   To establish the requirements; and
         (b)   As a checklist for the applicant and the township to use to
ensure completeness of submissions.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit completed photocopies of division (C)
below as part of the application.
   (B)   The required information listed in this section may be combined or
separated onto different sheets, provided that all information is clearly
readable.
   (C)   Preliminary plan for major subdivision or land development.
Upper Milford Township Preliminary Plan for Major Subdivision or Land Development**
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Applicant’s Name: _________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Address: ________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Daytime Phone No(s).: _____________________________________________________
Applicant’s Signature: ______________________________ Date of Submittal: __________________
* Place checkmarks in the appropriate columns below, except: 1) insert “NA” in the “Not
Submitted” column if not applicable and 2) insert “W” in the “Not Submitted” column if a
waiver is requested from the requirement. A written request for any waiver or modification
is also required under §
154.007
** See §
154.076(A) concerning which types of “land developments” are required to submit a
preliminary plan
Submitted   Not
           Submitted*
         A. GENERAL SUBMISSION ITEMS: (Note - the township may require the submission of
additional numbers of copies)
________   __________   1. 3 copies of completed township application (see Appendix A)
________   __________    2. Required township review fee(s)
________   __________    3. Required township escrow funds (to fund reviews)
________   __________    4. 2 copies of the preliminary plan checklist (using the
photocopies of the pages in this section)
________   __________    5. 11 print copies of the complete preliminary plans, with original
signatures and seals of plan preparers on one “File Copy”
________   __________    6. 2 additional print copies of only the layout plans, black and
white, at a maximum size of 11 in. x 17 in.
________   __________    7. 2 sets of supportive documents
________   __________    8. Notification that applicant provided a copy of the plan to the
Lehigh Valley Planning Commission for review
________   __________    9. Aerial photo. An applicant for a major subdivision is requested
but not required to submit an aerial photo (current if available) of the site, with the
boundaries of the site highlighted
________   __________    10. A digital copy of the plans in PDF format, or other format
acceptable to the township
         B. DRAFTING REQUIREMENTS: All information shall be legibly and accurately presented
________   __________    1. Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24
in., 24 in. x 36 in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.). A plan shall not be smaller than
18 in. by 24 in. in size. All copies of plans should be folded to approximately 9 in. x 12
in. size in such a manner that the title of the sheet faces out, except exceptionally large
and thick sets of plans may be rolled
________   __________    2. Plans drawn to scale of 1 inch = 50 feet or other scale pre-
approved by the Township Engineer
________   __________    3. All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and
bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds
________   __________    4. Differentiation between existing and proposed features
________   __________    5. Boundary line of the parcel, shown as a heavy boundary line
________   __________    6. If layout plans involve 2 or more sheets, a map of the layout of
the entire project at an appropriate scale on one sheet, and a key map showing how the
sheets connect
________   __________    7. If the parcel(s) crosses a municipal boundary, a map showing
both the portions in the township and the other municipality(ies), in sufficient detail for
the township to determine how the parts will interrelate
________   __________    8. Required profiles shown at a scale of 1 in. = 50 ft. horizontal
and 1 in. = 5 ft. vertical, or other scale pre-approved by the Township Engineer
________   __________    9. All sheets numbered and listed on one page
________   __________    10. Words “Preliminary Plan” and sheet title (such as “Layout
Plan”) on each sheet
         C. GENERAL INFORMATION:
________   __________    1. Name of project on each sheet
________   __________    2. Name of landowner and developer (with addresses)
________   __________    3. Names and addresses of abutting property owners
________   __________    4. Lot lines of adjacent lots, and approximate locations of any
buildings, common open spaces, detention basins or drainage channels existing or approved
within 150 feet of the boundaries of the proposed project
________   __________    5. Notarized owners statement - see Appendix B
________   __________    6. Surveyor and plan preparer’s statement - see Appendix B
________   __________    7. Approval/review signature blocks for: Board of Supervisors,
Township and Lehigh Valley Planning Commissions - see Appendix B
________   __________    8. Location map at a standard scale (such as 1 in. = 2,000 ft.)
showing the boundaries of the project in relation to the approximate location of the
following features within 500 feet from the boundaries of the parcel: existing and proposed
streets; waterways; trails; preserved open spaces; parks; and municipal borders
________   __________    9. North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
________   __________    10. Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates (especially
noting if this is a revision of a previously approved plan) with space for noting future
revision dates and general type of revisions
________   __________    11. Deed Book volume and page number from Lehigh County records
________   __________    12. Tax map number and block and lot and property identification
number for the parcel being subdivided
________   __________    13. A statement on the plan of proposed principal uses that are
intended for each lot
         D. EXISTING RESOURCES AND SITE ANALYSIS MAP:
________   __________    1. Existing contour lines shown at the same scale as the layout
plan, as follows:
               a. Shall be based on a field survey or photogrammetric procedure, with an
established bench mark
               b. The contour interval shall be sufficient to determine compliance with
township ordinances. An interval of 2 feet for slopes of less than 15% and 5 feet for slopes
of 15% or greater is generally recommended
               c. Note: contours are not required to be shown within areas of lots of 10
acres or more that are clearly not intended to be altered as a result of this proposed
subdivision or land development, unless needed to determine adequacy of stormwater
management
________   __________    2. Identification of any slopes of 15 to 25% and greater than 25%
________   __________    3. The locations and names (if any) of watercourses, natural
springs, ponds, lakes and wetlands
               a. Detailed delineations by a qualified professional of wetlands are required
with the preliminary plan submission, with the locations accurately shown on the plan.
________   __________    4. Rock outcrops, stone fields, sinkholes and topical depressions
________   __________    5. Location of any areas within the 100-year floodplain (with
differentiation between floodway and floodfringe if available from official federal
floodplain maps)
________   __________    6. Approximate locations and abbreviated names of soil types,
according to the U.S. Natural Resources Conservation Service or more accurate study, with
identification of those that are alluvial, hydric, have a depth to bedrock of less than 3
feet, or a seasonally high water table of less than 3 feet. If such soils do not exist, that
shall be stated on the plan
________   __________    7. Ridgelines and watershed boundaries
________   __________    8. Area and location of any proposed common open space
________   __________    9. If any common open space is proposed: method of ownership and
entity proposed to be responsible for maintenance
________   __________    10. If any common open space is proposed: description of intended
purposes, proposed improvements (such as rough grading) and any proposed recreation
facilities
________   __________    11. Any proposed recreation trails, existing trails and trail
easements
________   __________    12. Principal buildings estimated to be 80 years or older that
could be impacted by the project, with name and description
________   __________    13. Existing and proposed utility easements and restrictive
covenants and easements for purposes which affect development (stating which easements and
rights-of-way are proposed for dedication to the township)
________   __________    14. Locations of treelines and existing forested areas, with a
description of the approximate average trunk diameter of the older trees on the parcel (such
as “less than 12 inches”)
________   __________    15. Locations of individual mature trees of greater than 18 inches
trunk diameter measured at a height of 4.5 feet above the surrounding average ground level,
other than trees within forested areas and treelines (not required for areas that will not
be affected by the proposed plan, if so noted on the plan)
________   __________    16. Any proposed screening, buffer yards or earth berming (see
zoning chapter)
________   __________    17. Areas of existing mature woods that are proposed to be
protected and preserved or removed.
________   __________    18. General types, sizes and locations of any required street trees
(see §
154.178), paved area landscaping (see township zoning ordinance) and any other major
proposed landscaping
________   __________    19. Any proposed fencing (including height and type) and/or
landscaping around stormwater basins (see §
154.167)
         E. HUMAN-MADE FEATURES: (with existing features graphically differentiated from
proposed features)
________   __________    1. Existing and proposed lot lines
               a. The boundaries of lots (other than a residual lot of at least 10 acres)
shall be determined by accurate field survey, closed with an error not to exceed 1 in 10,000
and balanced
               b. The boundaries of any residual parcel which is 10 acres or more may be
determined by deed (Any residual lot of less than 10 acres shall fully comply with this
chapter)
________   __________    2. Location of existing monuments and markers
________   __________    3. Sufficient measurements of all lots, streets, rights-of-way,
easements and community or public areas to accurately and completely reproduce each and
every course on the ground
________   __________    4. Existing and proposed (if known) building locations
________   __________    5. Overhead electric high-voltage lines and rights-of-way/easements
         F. ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
________   __________    1. Applicable zoning district name, district boundaries and
required minimum lot area
________   __________    2. Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
________   __________    3. Statement of type of water and sewer service proposed (such as
“public water and public sewer”)
________   __________    4. Required and proposed building coverage and impervious coverage
(may be stated as “typical proposed” for single-family detached homes)
         G. PROPOSED LAYOUT:
________   __________    1. Total acreage of site and total proposed number of lots and
dwelling units
________   __________    2. Identification number for each lot (and for each building if
more than 1 building per lot)
________   __________    3. Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for
each lot
________   __________    4. Dimensions of each lot in feet
________   __________    5. Existing rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of
existing streets, including existing streets within 200 feet of boundaries of parcel
________   __________    6. Proposed rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of
existing and proposed streets, including streets within other developments within 200 feet
of the boundaries of parcel
________   __________    7. Street centerline information including bearings and distances
________   __________    8. Horizontal curve data including radius, tangent, or arc length
and delta, cord bearing and distance. Such information may be listed in a table, using
reference numbers on a plan, provided that sufficient information is provided along each
course (such as radius and arc length) such that each course can be reproduced in the field
________   __________    9. Right-of-way and curb lines with horizontal curve radii at
intersections
________   __________    10. Beginning and end of proposed street construction
________   __________    11. Street improvements proposed by the applicant, including any
acceleration/ deceleration lanes, traffic signal, street realignment or widening of abutting
streets
________   __________    12. Any proposed curbing (place No in Not Submitted column if not
proposed by applicant)
________   __________    13. Any proposed sidewalks and/or walkways (place No in Not
Submitted column if not proposed by applicant), with any proposed handicapped ramps at
intersections
________   __________    14. Any proposed bicycle paths (place No in Not Submitted column if
not proposed by applicant)
________   __________    15. Names of existing streets and proposed names of new streets
________   __________    16. Designation which streets are proposed to be dedicated to the
township or to remain private
________   __________    17. Evidence that any proposed or higher category new street or
driveway entrance onto a state road will meet PennDOT sight distance requirements, unless a
highway occupancy permit has already been approved for the use
________   __________    18. Sight distance triangles meeting township requirements
         H. UTILITY PLAN:
________   __________    1. As applicable, the following existing and proposed items shall
be shown for each lot, using standard symbols that are identified on a legend.
               a. Well (if not connected to central water system) - with required separation
distance shown from septic drain fields, and with dimensions from lot lines
               b. Primary drain field (with dimensions from lot lines)
               c. Secondary drain field - shall be perc tested, and dimensioned from lot
lines
               d. Suitable soil probe location
               e. Suitable percolation test locations (2 sites required meeting DEP
requirements)
               f. Unsuitable percolation test location(s) - if any
            2. If on-lot sewage disposal service is proposed: (see also “supporting
documentation” in division (O) below in this table)
________   __________       a. Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
________   __________       b. Location of existing and proposed wells within 100 feet of
the boundaries of the project
________   __________       c. Proposed or typical location of dwelling/building
________   __________       d. Locations of soils with a seasonally high water table
averaging less than 3 feet (see county soil survey)
________   __________       e. Exact slope across primary and secondary sewage system sites
            3. If public or central sewage service is proposed:
________   __________       a. Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
________   __________       b. Location and size of mains and laterals, with locations
corresponding to stationing on the profile
________   __________       c. Locations of manholes, with invert elevation of flow line and
grade at top of each manhole
________   __________       d. Proposed lot lines and any proposed easements or rights-of-
way needed for the utilities
________   __________       e. Location of all other drainage facilities and public
utilities in the vicinity of sanitary sewer lines
________   __________       f. Type, size, length and grade of sewer lines
            4. If public or central water service is proposed:
________   __________       a. Location and size of existing and proposed water mains
________   __________       b. Existing and proposed fire hydrant locations
________   __________       c. Distance noted that water lines will have to be extended to
reach existing lines (if not already abutting the parcel)
________   __________    5. Any existing and proposed underground natural gas, electrical,
telephone, cable TV or other utility lines, with any easements shown that will affect
development
________   __________    6. List of contacts for all underground utilities in the area, with
phone numbers stated on the grading plans (as required by State Act 172)
         I. GRADING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: Note: §
154.007 may allow deferral of submission of engineering details until the final plan stage.
________   __________    1. Existing and proposed storm drainage facilities or structures,
including detention basins (with capacity), swales, pipes (with sizes), culverts and inlets
________   __________    2. Capacity, depth, dimensions and locations of detention basins
________   __________    3. Pre-development and post-development watershed areas for each
detention basin or major drainage channel or point of concentration
________   __________    4. Locations of any proposed or existing stormwater easements
________   __________    5. Intended design year standards for culverts, bridge structures
and/or other stormwater facilities
________   __________    6. Schematic location of all underground utilities
________   __________    7. Entity responsible to maintain/own any detention basin and other
stormwater facilities or conveyances
________   __________    8. Any additional information needed under the township stormwater
management ordinance
________   __________    9. Existing and proposed contour lines (see description under
natural features)
         J. FOR USES OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
________   __________    1. Evidence that the project meets the density requirements of the
zoning ordinance, stating maximum and proposed densities
________   __________    2. Evidence that the project will meet the off-street parking
requirements of the zoning ordinance, including existing, minimum and proposed numbers of
spaces
________   __________    3. Arrangement of off-street parking spaces, parking aisles, off-
street loading areas and extent of areas to be covered by gravel or asphalt
________   __________    4. For single-family attached dwellings, any proposed methods to
ensure privacy between outdoor semi-private areas (such as fences or walls or plantings
between rear yards)
________   __________    5. Illustrative sketches of exteriors of proposed buildings
(encouraged but not required)
________   __________    6. Location of any proposed outdoor storage areas
________   __________    7. Note stating total square feet of paved area, including gravel
areas
         K. EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION PLAN: (may be submitted at the final plan stage if the
applicant provides a written and signed statement that earth will not be disturbed until
after final plan approval)
________   __________    1. Drawings showing locations and types of proposed erosion and
sedimentation control measures, complying with the regulations and standards of the Lehigh
County Conservation District and DEP
________   __________    2. Narrative describing proposed soil erosion and sedimentation
control methods
         L. ROAD PLAN-PROFILES: (with profile drawings on same sheet as plan drawings;
unless waived under § 154.007(C))
________   __________    1. Profile of existing and proposed ground surface along centerline
of street
________   __________    2. Proposed centerline grade with percent on tangents and
elevations at 50 feet intervals
________   __________    3. All vertical curve data including length, elevations and minimum
sight distance as required by §§
154.160 through
154.179
________   __________    4. Cross-sections as required by the Township Engineer
         M. SANITARY SEWER AND STORM DRAIN PLAN-PROFILES: (with profile drawings on same
sheet as plan drawings) (Unless waived under §
154.007(C))
________   __________    1. Profile of proposed ground surface with elevations at top of
manholes or inlets
________   __________    2. Profiles of storm sewer and sanitary sewer lines, corresponding
to stationing of any street
________   __________    3. All line crossings of other utilities
________   __________    4. Invert elevation and top of grate or manhole elevation
         N. CONSTRUCTION DETAILS:
________   __________    1. Detailed plan and cross-sectional drawings for detention or
retention basins
         O. CONSTRUCTION DETAILS: (following any applicable township improvement standards).
________   __________    1. Typical cross-section and specifications for street construction
as required by §
154.163
________   __________    2. Drainage swale cross-section and materials
________   __________    3. Pipe bedding details
________   __________    4. Storm drainage structures details, including cross-sectional
drawings, any detention basin outfall structure and spillway
________   __________    5. Sanitary sewer structures
________   __________    6. Curb and sidewalk details
________   __________    7. Street tree details
________   __________    8. Erosion and sedimentation details
________   __________    9. Centralized water details
         P. SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
________   __________    1. Residual lands sketch: if the submitted plans do not include all
undeveloped or underdeveloped adjacent or abutting lands owned by the same landowner or
under control of the same developer, then a sketch shall be submitted at an appropriate
approximate scale, on 1 sheet, covering all such land holdings together with a sketch of a
reasonable future potential street system. Such sketch shall demonstrate that the proposed
subdivision provides for the orderly development of any residual lands and/or does not
adversely affect the potential development of residual lands
________   __________    2. Sewage planning: if a sewage facility planning module is
required by DEP, then prior to preliminary plan approval, the applicant shall submit 2
complete copies for township use, plus the developer shall submit copies of the module and
required accompanying plans to various agencies as required under state regulations. The
approval of a sewage planning module is not required until final plan approval, but the
applicant shall provide evidence that they are forwarding complete submittals to the proper
review agencies
________   __________    3. Central water: if central water service is proposed by an
existing water company or authority, the applicant shall provide a letter from such water
company or authority which states that the company or authority expects to be able to
adequately serve the development, that the proposed water system is acceptable
________   __________    4. Public sewage: if service is proposed by a public sewage
provider, the developer shall submit a copy of a letter from the provider which states that
the authority can adequately serve the subdivision, that the proposed sanitary sewage system
is acceptable
________   __________    5. Nonpublic sewage: if service is proposed by a central sewage
system that is not publicly-owned, the developer shall provide sufficient information to
show that the proposed system would be feasible, within DEP regulations and maintained and
operated through an acceptable system
________   __________    6. Access to state roads: if access is proposed to a state highway:
a) copy of any information submitted to PennDOT and any correspondence from PennDOT
regarding the proposed access to state roads (this requirement applies throughout the entire
approval process); and b) evidence that the proposed access will meet PennDOT sight distance
requirements
________   __________    7. Floodplain: if the project would include any area within the
100-year floodplain or any watercourse, a statement from the Zoning Officer indicating that
the proposed subdivision or land development would be in compliance with the floodplain
regulations of the township
________   __________    8. A statement describing the organization, major officers and
principal shareholders of a corporate developer or the general partner of a partnership that
is the applicant
________   __________    9. Method of ensuring maintenance of any private street
________   __________    10. List of any modifications or waivers requested to this chapter
________   __________    11. Copies of the decisions of any zoning variances, or special
exception use approvals that are relevant to the proposal
________   __________    12. Stormwater calculations meeting the requirements of the
township stormwater management ordinance
________   __________    13. For industrial operations or industrial storage: a written
description of the proposed use in sufficient detail to indicate: a) any noise, glare, smoke
and fumes nuisances; b) to allow a general determination of possible fire, explosive, toxic,
genetic, public health or other hazards; and c) to estimate the amount, direction and times
of any tractor-trailer truck traffic that is expected
________   __________    14. Traffic impact study if required under §§
154.160 through
154.179
________   __________    15. Ground water study if required under §§
154.160 through
154.179
________   __________    16. With each revision of a previously submitted plan, the plan
preparer shall either:
               a. Certify in writing that no changes were made to the plan, other than
changes requested by the township; or
               b. List the changes that were made, other than those changes requested by the
township
 
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.078 CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All certification shall comply with the state professional licensing
laws.
   (B)   All subdivisions of land shall be certified and stamped by a
registered land surveyor.
   (C)   At least one set of all plans provided to the township, including
revisions, shall bear original signatures and original seals of plan preparers,
which shall be marked as a “Township File Copy”.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
FINAL PLANS FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS AND CERTAIN LAND DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.090 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter lists the requirements for final plans for a major
subdivision or any land development, except that a “land development” that only
involves the following may be submitted under the simplified requirements of §§
154.105 through
154.110:
   (A)   A lot line adjustment;
   (B)   An addition of up to 3,000 square feet of building floor area with no
new dwelling units on an existing lot;
   (C)   Minor corrections or minor revisions to a previously approved plan as
specified in §
154.108; or
   (D)   A merger or consolidation of lots (also referred to as reverse
subdivision).
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.091 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Final plan submission required.
      (1)   A final plan submission for each major subdivision or land
development must be filed by the applicant and reviewed in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   A final plan shall only be submitted after a preliminary plan has
been approved by the Board of Supervisors, if a preliminary plan is required.
   (B)   Final plan submission deadline. An applicant shall file a final plan
submission within five years from the date of the approval of the preliminary
plan by the Board of Supervisors. Failure to comply with this requirement shall
render the preliminary plan submission null and void, and a new preliminary
plan submission must be filed under any currently applicable ordinances.
   (C)   Filing and distribution.
      (1)   (a)   The applicant shall file with the township staff at least 19
calendar days prior to a regular Township Planning Commission meeting (not
including a workshop meeting):
            1.   The required fees; and
            2.   The information and plans required under §
154.092.
         (b)   Any subsequent submittal of revised plans shall be submitted at
least 19 calendar days before a Planning Commission meeting where the plans are
intended to be reviewed, unless permission is granted for a later submittal by
the Planning Administrator.
      (2)   The township staff shall forward applicable plans and documents to
the Township Planning Commission prior to or at the first regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting after a proper submission.
      (3)   Applicant’s distribution: it is the applicant’s responsibility to:
         (a)   Make agreements with the appropriate utility companies to
guarantee applicable provision of service;
         (b)   Submit a complete application to PennDOT for any needed permit
for access to or work within a state road right-of-way;
         (c)   Provide information to DEP or other agencies for any permits
that might be required;
         (d)   Submit a copy of the soil erosion and sedimentation plan to the
County Conservation District, and pay its required review fees, if earth
disturbance is proposed, and if such erosion control plan was not approved at
the preliminary plan level;
         (e)   Provide a copy of the plans to the Lehigh Valley Planning
Commission, with any required fee;
         (f)   If a sewage facility planning module is required by DEP, the
applicant shall submit two complete copies for township use, plus shall submit
copies of the module and plans to various agencies as required under state
regulations. A sewage planning module shall be completed and fully approved
prior to final plan approval; and
         (g)   Provide information needed by the Sewage Enforcement Officer, if
applicable.
      (4)   The filing of the final plan shall conform with the approved
preliminary plan and any conditions and changes recommended by the township
during the preliminary plan review.
      (5)   Revisions.
         (a)   A detailed list of revisions from a previously submitted plan
shall be provided whenever a revised plan is submitted.
         (b)   The developer’s plan preparer shall certify that the list of
revisions is complete.
   (D)   Review by Township Engineer.
      (1)   The Township Engineer shall review the submission and provide a
report to the Planning Commission and Board of Supervisors. Such review should
be provided prior to the first Planning Commission meeting at which the
submission will be discussed.
      (2)   The applicant and/or his or her plan preparer should make
reasonable efforts to resolve technical engineering considerations outside of
and prior to Planning Commission meetings.
      (3)   A copy of findings of the Township Engineer should be sent or
handed in person to the applicant or his or her representative and the Planning
Commission.
   (E)   Review by Planning Commission. The Township Planning Commission shall
accomplish the following within the time limitations of Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (unless the
applicant grants a written time extension), while allowing a sufficient number
of days within this deadline for a decision by the Board of Supervisors:
      (1)   Review applicable reports received from official review agencies;
      (2)   Consider whether the final plan submission meets the requirements
of this chapter and other applicable ordinances; and
      (3)   Recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the
final plan submission in writing to the Board of Supervisors.
   (F)   Review by Board of Supervisors.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors shall:
         (a)   Review the recommendation of the Planning Commission and any
reports received from official reviewing agencies;
         (b)   Determine whether the final plan submission meets the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable ordinances; and
         (c)   Approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the final plan
submission within the time limits established by the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
      (2)   As of the adoption date of this chapter, state law requires:
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors to act on the application and render
its decision and communicate it to the applicant not later than 90 days
following the date of the regular meeting of the Township Planning Commission
next following the date the application is filed, or after a final order of the
court remanding an application; provided that should the said next regular
meeting occur more than 30 days following the filing of the application, or the
final order of the court, the said 90-day period shall be measured from the
thirtieth day following the day the application has been filed; and
         (b)   No subdivision or land development shall be granted final
approval until a report is received from the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission
or until the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded
to the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission, whichever comes first.
   (G)   Decision by Board of Supervisors.
      (1)   Notice to applicant. The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall
be in writing and shall be communicated to the applicant personally or mailed
to him or her at his or her last known address not later than 15 days following
the decision.
      (2)   Dedications.
         (a)   The approval of the final plan by the Board of Supervisors shall
not by itself constitute an acceptance of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way, space or area, unless the such acceptance is specified at
such time.
         (b)   Any such acceptance of dedication shall only occur after formal
action of the township at such time.
         (c)   As part of an improvements agreement, if the Board of
Supervisors elects to accept lands offered for dedication, the submission shall
be accompanied by duly executed instruments of conveyance to the township. Such
instruments shall state that the title thereof is free and unencumbered.
         (d)   The Board of Supervisors may require that a subdivider provide
title insurance.
      (3)   Disapproval. When a final plan submission is disapproved, the
decision shall specify defects found in the submission, shall describe
requirements which have not been met, and shall cite the provisions of the
statute or ordinance relied upon in each case.
      (4)   Conditions.
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors may attach reasonable conditions to an
approval to ensure the carrying out of this chapter, other township ordinances
and state laws and regulations. If conditions are placed upon an approval, it
shall be the responsibility of the applicant or his or her authorized
representative, in writing, to accept or reject the conditions within a maximum
of 30 days after the date of the decision by the Board of Supervisors. If the
applicant fails to accept or reject the conditions within such time period,
then it shall be presumed that the applicant has accepted all of the conditions
upon the approval. If the applicant rejects any condition, then the approval
shall be rescinded, unless a decision of a court determines such condition was
not valid.
         (b)   The applicant shall be required to show compliance with all the
conditions upon the final plan approval within one year after the date of the
decision by the Board of Supervisors, unless a written extension is granted by
the Board of Supervisors.
   (H)   Development in stages.
      (1)   If requested by the applicant, the Board of Supervisors may permit
the undertaking of the required improvements and the preparation of the final
plan to be completed in a series of sections or stages, each covering a portion
of the proposed subdivision or land development as shown on the preliminary
plan.
      (2)   If final plans are to be filed in sections or stages, each section
or stage shall provide sufficient access, utilities and amenities to allow the
development to properly function if future stages are not built.
      (3)   The boundaries of phases and the timing of related improvements
shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Supervisors.
   (I)   Statement of approval. At the request of the applicant, the township
shall furnish the applicant with a signed copy of a resolution indicating
approval of the applicant’s final plan contingent upon the applicant providing
a satisfactory financial security. The final plan will not be signed by
township officials until a satisfactory financial security is presented. The
resolution of contingent approval shall expire and be deemed to be revoked if
the financial security agreement is not provided within 90 days, unless a
written extension is granted by the township.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.092 FINAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All of the information and materials listed in this section are
required as part of all final plans for:
         (a)   A major subdivision; or
         (b)   A land development.
      (2)   This list of requirements shall serve as both a list of
requirements, and as a checklist for the applicant and the township to ensure
completion of submissions. The applicant shall submit completed photocopies of
this section as part of the application.
   (B)   The required information listed in this section may be combined or
separated onto different sheets, provided that the plans will be clearly
readable. If a particular plan or item was submitted at the preliminary plan
stage, and is still complete and accurate, then the applicant may reference
that submittal in the final plan submission instead of providing additional
copies.
   (C)   Final plan for major subdivisions and certain land developments.
 
Upper Milford Township Final Plan for Major Subdivision or Land Development
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Applicant’s Name: _________________________________________________
Applicant’s Address: _______________________________________________
Applicant’s Daytime Phone No(s).: _____________________________________
Applicant’s Signature: _____________________ Date of Submittal: __________
* Place a checkmark in the applicable column below, except: a) insert “NA” in
the “Not Submitted” column if not applicable and b) insert “W” in the “Not
Submitted” column if a waiver is requested from the requirement. A written
request for a waiver or modification is also required under §
154.007.
Submitted Not
          Submitted*
* Place a checkmark in the applicable column below, except: a) insert “NA” in the “Not Submitted” column if
not applicable and b) insert “W” in the “Not Submitted” column if a waiver is requested from the
requirement. A written request for a waiver or modification is also required under §
154.007.
Submitted Not
          Submitted*
                   A. GENERAL SUBMISSION ITEMS: (The township may require the applicant to file
                     additional copies)
_________ _________     1. 3 copies of completed township application (see
                     Appendix A)
_________ _________     2. Required township review fee(s)
_________ _________     3. Required township escrow funds (to fund reviews)
_________ _________     4. 2 copies of the preliminary plan checklist (using the photocopies of the pages
                     in this section)
_________ _________     5. 11 print copies of the complete final plans, with original signatures and seals
                     of plan preparers on 1 “File Copy”
_________ _________     6. 1 print copies of only the layout plans, black and white, at a maximum size of
                     11 in. x 17 in.
_________ _________     7. 2 sets of supportive documents
_________ _________     8. Notification that a copy of the plans were delivered by applicant to the Lehigh
                     Valley Planning Commission for review
                        9. If a sewage facility planning module is required by DEP, the applicant shall
_________ _________  submit 3 complete copies for township use, plus shall prove that all copies have been
                     sent as required to review agencies
_________ _________     10. A digital copy of the plans in PDF format, or other format acceptable to the
                     township
                   B. DRAFTING REQUIREMENTS: All information shall be legibly and accurately presented
                        1. Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24 in., 24 in. x 36
                     in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.). A plan shall not be smaller than 18 in. by
_________ _________  24 in. in size. All copies of plans should be folded to approximately 9 in. x 12 in.
                     size in such a manner that the title of the sheet faces out, except exceptionally
                     large and thick sets of plans may be rolled
_________ _________     2. Plans drawn to scale of 1 inch = 50 feet or other scale pre-approved by the
                     Township Engineer
_________ _________     3. All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and bearings in degrees,
                     minutes and seconds
_________ _________     4. Differentiation between existing and proposed features
_________ _________     5. Boundary line of the parcel, shown as a heavy boundary line
                        6. If layout plans involve more than 1 sheet, a map of the layout of the entire
_________ _________  project at an appropriate scale on 1 sheet, and a key map showing how the sheets
                     connect
                        7. If the parcel(s) crosses a municipal boundary, a map showing both the portions
_________ _________  in the township and the other municipality(ies), in sufficient detail for the township
                     to determine how the parts will interrelate
_________ _________     8. Required profiles shown at a scale of 1 in. = 50 ft. horizontal and 1 in. = 5
                     ft. vertical, or other scale pre-approved by the Township Engineer
_________ _________     9. All sheets numbered and listed on one page
_________ _________     10. Words “Final Plan” and sheet title (such as “Layout Plan”) on each sheet
                   C. GENERAL INFORMATION:
_________ _________     1. Name of project on each sheet
_________ _________     2. Name of landowner and developer (with addresses)
_________ _________     3. Names and addresses of abutting property owners
                        4. Lot lines of adjacent lots, and approximate locations of any buildings, common
_________ _________  open spaces, detention basins or drainage channels existing or approved within 150
                     feet of the boundaries of the proposed project
_________ _________     5. Notarized owners statement - see
                     Appendix B
_________ _________     6. Surveyor and plan preparer’s statement - see
                     Appendix B
                        7. Approval/review signature blocks for Township Board of Supervisors, Township
_________ _________  Planning Commission and Lehigh Valley Planning Commission (see
                     Appendix B)
                        8. Location map at a standard scale (such as 1 in. = 2,000 ft.) showing the
_________ _________  boundaries of the project in relation to the approximate location of the following
                     features within 500 feet from the boundaries of the parcel: existing and proposed
                     streets; waterways; trails; preserved open spaces; parks; and municipal borders
_________ _________     9. North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
                        10. Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates (especially noting if this is a
_________ _________  revision of a previously approved plan) with space for noting future revision dates
                     and general type of revisions
_________ _________     11. Deed Book volume and page number from Lehigh County records
_________ _________     12. Existing tax map number and block and lot and property identification number
                     for the parcel being subdivided
_________ _________     13. A statement on the plan of proposed principal uses that are intended for each
                     lot
                   D. EXISTING RESOURCES AND SITE ANALYSIS MAP:
_________ _________     1. Existing contour lines shown at the same scale as the layout plan as follows:
                         a. Shall be based on a field survey or photogrammetric procedure, with an
                     established bench mark
                           b. The contour interval shall be sufficient to determine compliance with
                   township ordinances. An interval of 2 feet for slopes of less than 15% and 5 feet for
                     slopes of 15% or greater is generally recommended
                           c. Note: contours are not required to be shown within areas of lots of 10 acres
                   or more that the plan states are clearly not intended to be altered as a result of
                     this proposed approval, unless needed for stormwater management.
_________ _________     2. Identification of any slopes of 15 to 25%, and greater than 25%
_________ _________     3. Watercourses (with any name), natural springs, lakes
_________ _________     4. Wetlands: detailed delineations by a qualified professional of wetlands are
                     required with a metes and bounds description and shall be dimensioned from lot lines
                         a. The applicant may be granted final plan approval conditioned upon receipt of
                     all required federal and state wetland permits
                         b. See the “supporting documentation” portion in division (P) below of this
                     table regarding wetland studies
_________ _________     5. Location of any areas within the 100-year floodplain (with differentiation
                     between floodway and floodfringe if available from official federal floodplain maps)
                        6. Approximate locations and names of soil types based upon the most current county
_________ _________  soil survey or more detailed professional study, with identification of the following
                     types of soils: alluvial; hydric; depth to bedrock of less than 3 feet; or a
                     seasonally high water table of less than 3 feet
_________ _________     7. Area and location of any proposed common open space (if none proposed, place “W”
                     in Not Submitted Column)
_________ _________     8. If any common open space is proposed: method of ownership and entity proposed to
                     be responsible for maintenance
_________ _________     9. If any common open space is proposed: description of intended purposes; proposed
                     improvements (such as rough grading); and any proposed recreation facilities
_________ _________     10. Principal buildings estimated to be 80 years or older that are proposed to be
                     impacted by the project, with name and description
                        11. Existing and proposed utility easements and restrictive covenants and easements
_________ _________  for purposes which might affect development (stating which easements and rights-of-way
                     are proposed for dedication to the township)
                        12. Locations of individual mature trees of greater than 18 inches trunk diameter
_________ _________  measured at a height of 4.5 feet above the surrounding average ground level, in
                     addition to outlines of existing wooded areas and treelines
_________ _________     13. Any proposed evergreen screening, buffer yards or earth berming (if required by
                     township zoning ordinance)
_________ _________     14. Areas of existing mature woods that are proposed to be protected and preserved
                     or removed
_________ _________     15. General types, sizes and locations of any required street trees (see §
                     154.178), paved area landscaping and any other major proposed landscaping
                        16. Any proposed fencing (including height and type) and/or landscaping around any
_________ _________  stormwater basin (see §
                     154.167)
                   E. HUMAN-MADE FEATURES:
                        1. Existing and proposed lot lines. The boundaries of lots (other than a residual
                     lot of at least 10 acres) shall be determined by accurate field survey, closed with an
_________ _________  error not to exceed 1 in 10,000 and balanced. The boundaries of any residual parcel
                     which is 10 acres or more may be determined by deed. Any residual lot of less than 10
                     acres shall fully comply with this chapter
_________ _________     2. Location of existing monuments
                        3. Sufficient measurements of all lots, streets, rights-of-way, easements and
_________ _________  community or public areas to accurately and completely reproduce each and every course
                     on the ground
_________ _________     4. Existing and proposed (if known) building locations and land uses
_________ _________     5. Overhead electrical high-voltage lines and rights-of-way/easements
                   F. ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
_________ _________     1. Applicable zoning district and required minimum lot area
_________ _________     2. Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
_________ _________     3. Statement of type of water and sewer service proposed (such as “well and on-lot
                     septic”)
_________ _________     4. Required and proposed building coverage and impervious coverage (may be stated
                     as “typical proposed” for single-family detached homes)
                   G. PROPOSED LAYOUT:
_________ _________     1. Total acreage of site and total proposed number of lots and dwelling units
_________ _________     2. Identification number for each lot (and for each building if more than 1
                     principal building per lot)
_________ _________     3. Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for each lot
_________ _________     4. Dimensions of each lot in feet
_________ _________     5. Existing rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of existing streets,
                     including existing street/roads within 200 feet of boundaries of parcel
                        6. Proposed rights-of-way and cartway widths and locations of existing and proposed
_________ _________  streets, including streets proposed as part of other projects within 200 feet of the
                     boundaries of parcel
_________ _________     7. Street centerline information, including bearings and distances
                        8. Horizontal curve data including radius, tangent, or length and delta, cord
_________ _________  bearing and distance. Such information may be listed in a table, using reference
                     numbers on a plan, provided that sufficient information is provided along each course
                     (such as radius and arc length) such that each course can be reproduced in the field
_________ _________     9. Right-of-way and curb lines
_________ _________     10. Beginning and end of proposed street/road construction
                        11. Street/road improvements proposed by the applicant (such as including any
_________ _________  acceleration/deceleration lanes, traffic signal, street re-alignment or construction
                     improvement)
_________ _________     12. Any proposed curbing (place W in Not Submitted column if not proposed)
_________ _________     13. Any proposed sidewalks or walkways (place NA in Not Submitted column if not
                     proposed), with any proposed handicapped ramps at intersections
_________ _________     14. Any proposed bicycle paths (place NA in Not Submitted column if not proposed)
_________ _________     15. Names of existing streets and initial proposed names of new streets
_________ _________     16. Designation of streets proposed to be dedicated to the township or to remain
                     private
                        17. Evidence that a proposed new street or driveway entrance to a state road will
                     meet PennDOT sight distance requirements, unless a valid highway occupancy permit has
_________ _________  already been issued, or an entrance to a township road where sight distance
                     requirements are established by §§
                     154.160 through
                     154.179
                   H. UTILITY PLAN:
_________ _________     1. Symbols: as applicable, the following existing and proposed items shall be shown
                     for each lot, using standard symbols that are identified in a legend on the plan
                         a. Well (if not connected to central water system) - with required separation
                     distance shown from septic drain fields, and with dimensions from lot lines
                         b. Primary drain field (with dimensions from lot lines)
                         c. Secondary drain field - shall be perc tested, and dimensioned from lot lines
                         d. Suitable soil probe location
                         e. Suitable percolation test locations (2 sites required meeting DEP
                     requirements)
                      2. If on-lot sewage disposal service are proposed: (see also “supporting
                     documentation” in division (P) below in this table)
_________ _________        a. Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
_________ _________        b. Location of existing and proposed wells within 100 feet of the boundaries of
                     the project
_________ _________        c. Proposed or typical location of dwelling/building
_________ _________        d. Locations of soils with a seasonally high water table averaging less than 3
                     feet (see soil survey of the county)
_________ _________        e. Exact slope across primary and secondary septic sites
                      3. If public or centralized sewage service is proposed:
_________ _________        a. Proposed contour lines on same sheet as utility layout
_________ _________        b. Location and size of lines and laterals, with locations corresponding to
                     stations on the profile
_________ _________        c. Locations of manholes, with invert elevation of flow line and grade at top of
                     each manhole
_________ _________        d. Proposed lot lines and any proposed easements or rights-of-way needed for the
                     utilities
_________ _________        e. Location of all other drainage facilities and public utilities in the
                     vicinity of sanitary sewer lines
_________ _________        f. Type, size, length and grade of sewer lines
                      4. If public or centralized water service is proposed:
_________ _________        a. Location and size of existing and proposed waterlines
_________ _________        b. Existing and proposed fire hydrant locations
_________ _________        c. Distance noted that water lines will have to be extended to reach existing
                     lines (if not already abutting the parcel)
                        5. As applicable, existing and proposed underground natural gas, electrical,
_________ _________  telephone, cable TV and any other utility lines, with any easements shown that will
                     affect development
_________ _________     6. List of contacts for underground utilities in the area, with phone numbers
                     stated on the grading plans, as required by State Act 172
                   I. GRADING AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN:
                        1. Locations of existing and proposed storm drainage facilities or structures,
_________ _________  including detention basins (with capacity), swales, pipes (with sizes), culverts and
                     inlets
_________ _________     2. Capacity, depth, dimensions and locations of detention basins
_________ _________     3. Watershed areas for each drainage structure or swale (for pre- and post-
                     development) or point of concentration
_________ _________     4. Locations of any proposed or existing stormwater easements
_________ _________     5. Intended design year standards for culverts, bridge structures and/or other
                     stormwater facilities
_________ _________     6. Schematic location of all underground utilities
_________ _________     7. Entity responsible to maintain/own any detention basin
_________ _________     8. See requirements of the township stormwater management ordinance
_________ _________     9. Existing and proposed contour lines (see description under natural features)
_________ _________     10. Where cuts or fills extend beyond the right-of-way, cross-sections at 50 feet
                     intervals shall be required unless waived by the Township Engineer
                   J. FOR USES OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
_________ _________     1. Evidence that the project meets the density requirements of the zoning
                     ordinance, stating maximum and proposed densities
_________ _________     2. Evidence that the project will meet the off-street parking requirements of the
                     zoning ordinance, including existing, minimum and proposed numbers of spaces
_________ _________     3. Arrangement of off-street parking spaces, parking aisles, paved areas and off-
                     street loading areas
_________ _________     4. For single-family attached dwellings, any proposed methods to ensure privacy
                     between outdoor semi-private areas (such as fences between rear yard)
_________ _________     5. Illustrative sketches of proposed buildings (encouraged not required)
_________ _________     6. Number, sign area, height and location of proposed signs (may be addressed in
                     future zoning application)
_________ _________     7. Major types and locations of outdoor lighting (may be addressed in future zoning
                     application)
_________ _________     8. Location of any proposed outdoor storage areas
_________ _________     9. Square feet of paved area, including areas covered by stone
                   K. EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION PLAN: (Unless approved at preliminary plan stage and will
                     be unchanged)
_________ _________     1. Drawings showing locations and types of proposed measures, complying with the
                     regulations and standards of the Lehigh County Conservation District and DEP
_________ _________     2. Narrative describing proposed soil erosion and sedimentation control methods
                   L. ROAD PLAN-PROFILES: (With profile drawings on same sheet as plan drawings)
_________ _________     1. Profile of existing and proposed ground surface along centerline of street
_________ _________     2. Proposed centerline grade with percent on tangents and elevations at 50 feet
                     intervals
                        3. All vertical curve data including length, elevations and minimum sight distance
_________ _________  as required by §§
                     154.160 through
                     154.179
_________ _________     4. Cross-sections as required by the Township Engineer to be necessary to determine
                     compliance with the chapter
                   M. SANITARY SEWER AND STORM DRAIN PLAN-PROFILES: (With profile drawings on same sheet
                     as plan drawings)
_________ _________     1. Profile of proposed ground surface with elevations at top of manholes or inlets
_________ _________     2. Profile of storm sewer and sanitary sewer lines, corresponding to stations
_________ _________     3. All line crossings of other utilities
_________ _________     4. Slope and length of pipes
_________ _________     5. Invert elevation and top of grate or manhole elevation
                   N. ADDITIONAL FINAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
                      1. Protective covenants shall be placed on the land providing for:
                           a. Clear sight triangle easements (see §§
_________ _________  154.163(H) and
                     154.171(D)
_________ _________        b. All needed utility, drainage, maintenance, pedestrian, open space or other
                     easements
                      2. Required plan notations. The following wording shall be required to be placed on
                     any final subdivision or land development plan, as applicable:
                           a. If access will be provided onto a state highway and a required PennDOT
_________ _________  highway occupancy permit has not been granted then the following or closely similar
                     wording shall be stated:
                           “NOTICE - A PennDOT highway occupancy permit for Lot No(s).___ is required
                     pursuant to 36 P.S. § 670-420 of the Act of June 1, 1945 (P.L. 1242, No. 428), known
                     as the State Highway Law, being 36 P.S. §§ 670-101 et seq. before driveway access to a
                     state highway is permitted. Access to the state highway shall be only as authorized by
                     a PennDOT highway occupancy permit. No building permits, zoning permits or
                   certificates of occupancy shall be issued for said lot until such time as a PennDOT
                     highway occupancy permit has been secured and filed with the township. The township
                     shall not be held liable for damages to persons or property arising out of issuance or
                     denial of a highway occupancy permit by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation,
                     pursuant to § 508 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §
                     10508.”
_________ _________        b. “Well and sewage disposal systems shall be constructed in accordance with
                     standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.”
                           c. “Individual owners of lots must receive approval from the Township Sewage
                     Enforcement Officer for a sewage permit prior to undertaking the construction of an
_________ _________  on-lot sewage disposal system or building that will need to be served by such a
                     system. Additional, no development shall occur in the alternative drain field location
                     without the prior written approval of the Zoning Officer and Sewage Enforcement
                     Officer.”
                           d. “Upper Milford Township does not guarantee that any individual lot or
_________ _________  location within a lot will be able to sustain any type of well or sewage disposal
                     system.”
_________ _________        e. Notations stating that the property owner is responsible for maintenance of
                     drainage swales
_________ _________        f. Notations stating that wetland permits may be required from the Army Corps of
                     Engineers or Pennsylvania DEP
                           g. Notations recognizing and stating that Upper Milford Township is not liable
_________ _________  and is not providing any guarantee regarding any stormwater, wetland, erosion control
                     or any other review
                      3. Street lighting
_________ _________        a. Existing street lighting
                         b. Any proposed street lighting (or notation stating none is proposed),
                     including types of poles, spacing of poles and intensity of lamps
_________ _________     4. Proposed monument and marker locations
                   O. CONSTRUCTION DETAILS: (following any applicable township improvement standards)
                        1. Typical cross-section and specifications for street construction as required by
_________ _________  §
                     154.163
_________ _________     2. Drainage swale cross-section and materials
_________ _________     3. Pipe bedding details
_________ _________     4. Storm drainage structures details, including cross-sectional drawings, any
                     detention basin outfall structure and spillway
_________ _________     5. Sanitary sewer structures
_________ _________     6. Curb and sidewalk details
_________ _________     7. Street tree details
_________ _________     8. Erosion and sedimentation details
_________ _________     9. Centralized water details
_________ _________     10. Design calculations prepared by a professional engineer for any retaining wall
                     with a wall height exceeding 4 feet
                     P. SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Supporting written and data
                   reports submitted at the time of the preliminary plan are not required to be
                     resubmitted unless they need to be revised to reflect changes between the preliminary
                     and the final plans.
                        1. A copy of any “Supporting Documentation and Additional Information” that was
_________ _________  required for the preliminary plan and that needed to be adjusted or revised to reflect
                     changes between the preliminary and the final plan
                        2. If the subdivision or land development was not required to submit a preliminary
_________ _________  plan, a copy of any supporting information listed in §
                     154.077 that is applicable to this project
_________ _________     3. List of modifications or waivers requested to this chapter that are needed but
                     have not yet been granted
                        4. Deed restrictions: all private deed restrictions, homeowner or condominium
                     association agreements or covenants already imposed or to be imposed as a condition to
_________ _________  sale that may affect the subdivision or land development plan. Any homeowner or
                     condominium association agreement regarding maintenance of utilities and common
                     facilities may be subject to review by the Township Solicitor and acceptance by the
                     Board of Supervisors
_________ _________     5. Dedicated improvements: the developer shall provide a deed of dedication
                     together with an 8-1/2 in. x 11 in. plan of each such improvement
                        6. Nondedicated streets agreement: agreement for any street not offered for
_________ _________  dedication stating who is responsible for the improvement and maintenance of such
                     streets. The developer shall be responsible for such maintenance until the condominium
                     or homeowners association is established and operational
                        7. Open space agreement: a formal contract providing for the maintenance of open
                     space and the method of management, together with all offers of dedication and
_________ _________  covenants governing the reservation and maintenance of undedicated open space. This
                     agreement is subject to the review of the Township Solicitor and acceptance by the
                     Board of Supervisors
                        8. Storm drainage calculations: all calculations relating to facilities appearing
_________ _________  on the grading and storm drainage plan and the erosion and sedimentation plan shall be
                     submitted for review by the Township Engineer (see §
                     154.167)
_________ _________     9. Development schedule: A statement indicating the approximate date when
                     construction can be expected to begin and be completed
                        10. State highway reviews: the applicant shall submit to the township a copy of the
                     application to PennDOT for any needed occupancy permit to have access onto a state
_________ _________  highway, and shall also submit any review comments received from PennDOT within 5 days
                     of receiving such comments. If a needed permit is not issued prior to final approval,
                     such permit shall automatically be a condition of final plan approval
                        11. Water certification: if water service is proposed by means other than by
                     private individual wells owned by the owner of each lot, the applicant shall present
_________ _________  evidence to the township that the service will be provided by a certified public
                     utility, a bona fide cooperative association of property owners or by a municipal
                     corporation, authority or utility, as permitted by the township
                           a. This evidence shall include a copy of 1 or more of the following, as
                   appropriate: a) the certificate of public convenience from the Pennsylvania Public
                     Utility Commission; b) a copy of an application submitted for such certificate or a
                     cooperative agreement; or c) a commitment or agreement to serve the area in question.
                        12. Wetland statement: the applicant shall provide a signed statement of whether
_________ _________  areas of the parcel proposed to be altered, disturbed or developed includes “wetlands”
                     under the applicable federal and/or state definitions.
_________ _________     13. If applicable, copy of the wetland study, and qualifications of person who
                     prepared the study
_________ _________     14. Addresses: plan showing existing street address numbers of adjacent lots and
                     proposed street address numbers of proposed lots, as issued by the township
_________ _________     15. With each revision of a previously submitted plan, the plan preparer shall
                     either:
                         a. Certify in writing that no changes were made to the plan, other than changes
                     requested by the township; or
                         b. List the changes that were made, other than those requested by the township
                     (not including typographic corrections)
                     Q. MATERIALS REQUIRED PRIOR TO RECORDING: The following are not required at the time
                   of final plan submission, but are required prior to recording of the final plan and
                     prior to the construction of any buildings.
                      1. Utilities agreements and permits
                           a. All signed agreements or contracts with utility companies, water companies or
_________ _________  authorities or sewage companies or authorities for the provision of services to the
                     project
_________ _________        b. Approval letters from all appropriate federal and state agencies of any
                     private central water supply system or private central sewage disposal system
_________ _________        c. Approved DEP sewage planning module, if applicable
_________ _________        d. DEP water quality management permit, if applicable
_________ _________     2. See record plan requirements in § 154.146
 
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.093 CERTIFICATION.
   All certification shall comply with the state professional licensing laws.
All subdivisions of land shall be certified and stamped by a registered land
surveyor, as required by state law. At least one set of plans provided to the
township (including revisions) shall bear original signatures and original
seals of plan preparers and shall be marked as a “Township File Copy”.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS, CERTAIN LAND DEVELOPMENTS
AND LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS
§ 154.105 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides simplified procedures for submitting and reviewing
minor subdivisions, certain land developments and lot line adjustments.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.106 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The following submission and review process shall apply for minor
subdivisions, lot line adjustments, merger or consolidation of lots (also
referred to as reverse subdivision), land developments involving only a single
nonresidential building addition of less than 3,000 square feet of building
floor area with no additional dwelling units, and what the township determines
to be minor corrections or minor revisions of previously approved plans under §
154.108.
   (A)   Final plan submission required. A final plan submission for each
application under this section shall be filed by the applicant and reviewed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
154.105 through
154.110. A preliminary plan is not required for a submittal under §§
154.105 through
154.110.
   (B)   Filing and distribution.
      (1)   (a)   The applicant shall file with the township staff at least 19
calendar days prior to a regular Township Planning Commission meeting (not
including a workshop meeting):
            1.   The required fees; and
            2.   The information and plans required under §§
154.105 through
154.110.
         (b)   Any subsequent submittal of revised plans shall be submitted at
least 19 calendar days before a Planning Commission meeting where the plans are
intended to be reviewed, unless permission is granted for a later submittal by
the Planning Administrator.
      (2)   If a state road is involved, the applicant shall forward the
required information to PennDOT and apply for a highway occupancy permit. If
such permit is not granted prior to final plan approval, then it shall
automatically be a condition of final plan approval, and the plans shall not be
signed or released for recording by the township until the PennDOT permit is
granted.
      (3)   Each final plan filed for minor subdivisions shall provide the
information required by §
154.107. Plans for lot line adjustments shall provide the information required
by §
154.108.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide a copy of the plans for review to the
Lehigh Valley Planning Commission with the required county review fees. A soil
erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be provided to the County
Conservation District.
   (C)   Initial actions by the staff.
      (1)   The staff shall review the submission items filed against a
checklist for completeness and shall report such review to the Commission at
its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   The staff shall retain in the township’s files one “File Copy” of
all materials submitted by the applicant.
      (3)   The staff shall forward the applicable submission information to
the Township Engineer and the Township Planning Commission before the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission.
   (D)   Review by Township Engineer. The Township Engineer should review the
engineering considerations in the plan and prepare an initial report on such
considerations to the Planning Commission. The Township Engineer may make
additional reports and recommendations to the Planning Commission and the Board
of Supervisors during review of the plan.
   (E)   Review by Planning Commission. The Township Planning Commission should
accomplish the following within the time limitations of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (unless the
applicant grants a written time extension):
      (1)   Review all applicable reports received from the appropriate review
agencies and officers;
      (2)   Determine whether the final plan submission meets the requirements
of this chapter and other applicable ordinances;
      (3)   Review the final plan submission and recommend any needed revisions
so that the submission will conform to this chapter and other applicable
ordinances; and
      (4)   Recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of the
final plan submission in writing to the Board of Supervisors.
   (F)   Review by Board of Supervisors.
      (1)   The Board of Supervisors shall:
         (a)   Review the recommendation of the Commission and any reports
received from any other official reviewing agencies;
         (b)   Determine whether the final plan submission meets the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable ordinances; and
         (c)   Approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the final plan
submission within the time limits established by the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
      (2)   As of the adoption date of this chapter, state law requires:
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors to act on the application and render
its decision and communicate it to the applicant not later than 90 days
following the date of the regular meeting of the Township Planning Commission
next following the date the application is filed, or after a final order of the
court remanding an application, provided that should the said next regular
meeting occur more than 30 days following the filing of the application, or the
final order of the court, the said 90-day period shall be measured from the
thirtieth day following the day the application has been filed; and
         (b)   No subdivision or land development shall be granted final
approval until a report is received from the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission
or until the expiration of 30 days from the date the application was forwarded
to the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission, whichever comes first.
      (4)   County Planning Commission review. No subdivision or land
development shall be granted final approval until a report is received from the
Lehigh Valley Planning Commission or until the expiration of 30 days from the
date the application was forwarded to the County Planning Commission, whichever
shall occur first.
   (G)   Decision by Board of Supervisors.
      (1)   The decision of the Board of Supervisors shall be in writing and
shall be communicated to the applicant personally or mailed to him or her at
the last known address not later than 15 days following the decision.
      (2)   (a)   The approval of the final plan by the Board of Supervisors
shall not by itself constitute an acceptance of the dedication of any street or
other proposed public way, space or area, unless such acceptance is
specifically made at such time.
         (b)   Any such acceptance of dedication shall be specifically stated
along with the signatures required for approval.
         (c)   If the Board of Supervisors elects to accept lands offered for
dedication, the submission shall be accompanied by duly executed instruments of
conveyance to the township. Such instruments shall state that the title thereof
is free and unencumbered. The Board of Supervisors may require an applicant to
provide title insurance.
      (3)   If a final plan submission is disapproved, the decision shall
specify defects found in the submission, shall describe requirements which have
not been met, and shall cite the provisions of the statute or ordinance relied
upon in each case.
      (4)   Conditions.
         (a)   If conditions are placed upon an approval, it shall be the
responsibility of the applicant, in writing, to accept or reject the conditions
within a maximum of 30 days after the date of the decision by the Board of
Supervisors. If the applicant fails to accept or reject the conditions within
such time period, then it shall be presumed that the applicant has accepted all
of the conditions upon the approval. If the applicant rejects any condition,
then the approval shall be rescinded, unless a decision of a court determines
such condition was not valid.
         (b)   The applicant shall be required to show compliance with all the
conditions upon the final plan approval within one year after the date of the
decision by the Board of Supervisors, unless a written extension is granted by
the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.107 MINOR SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following information and materials listed in this section are
required as part of all minor subdivision submissions, other than lot line
adjustments or submittals under §
154.108. This list of requirements shall serve as both a list of requirements,
and as a checklist for the applicant and the township to ensure completion of
submissions. The applicant shall submit completed photocopies of this section
as part of the application.
 
Upper Milford Township Final Plan Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
for Minor Subdivisions and Certain Land Developments
Applicant’s Name: __________________________________________________
Applicant’s Address: ________________________________________________
Applicant’s Daytime Phone No.: _______________________________________
Applicant’s Signature: ______________________   Date of Submittal: ____________
* Place a check in the applicable column, except: 1) insert “NA” in the “Not
Submitted” column if not applicable, and 2) insert “W” in the “Not Submitted”
column if a waiver is requested from the requirement
Submitted Not
          Submitted*
* Place a check in the applicable column, except: 1) insert “NA” in the “Not Submitted” column if not
applicable, and 2) insert “W” in the “Not Submitted” column if a waiver is requested from the requirement
Submitted Not
          Submitted*
                   A. GENERAL SUBMISSION ITEMS: (the township staff may require the submission of
                     additional numbers of copies)
_________ _________     1. 3 copies of completed township application (see Appendix A)
_________ _________     2. Required township review fee(s)
_________ _________     3. Required township escrow funds (to fund reviews)
_________ _________     4. 2 copies of the minor subdivision plan checklist (using the photocopies of the
                     pages in this section)
_________ _________     5. 6 print copies of the complete subdivision plans, with original signatures and
                     seals of plan preparers on one “File Copy”
_________ _________     6. 2 sets of supportive documents
_________ _________     7. Notification that a copy of the plan was delivered by applicant to the Lehigh
                     Valley Planning Commission
                   B. DRAFTING REQUIREMENTS: All information shall be legibly and accurately presented
                        1. Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24 in., 24 in. x 36
_________ _________  in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.). Sheets should be folded to approximately 9
                     in. x 12 in. size, in such a manner that the title of the sheet faces out.
_________ _________     2. Plans drawn to scale of 1 inch = 50 feet or other scale pre-approved by the
                     Township Engineer
_________ _________     3. All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and bearings in degrees,
                     minutes and seconds
_________ _________     4. Differentiation between existing and proposed features
_________ _________     5. Boundary line of the parcel, shown as a heavy boundary line
                   C. GENERAL INFORMATION:
_________ _________     1. Name and location of project (such as the “Smith Subdivision No. 2”)
_________ _________     2. Name of landowner and developer (with addresses)
_________ _________     3. Names and addresses of abutting property owners, with abutting lot lines
_________ _________     4. Notarized owners statement of intent (see
                     Appendix B)
_________ _________     5. Name, address, signature, and seal of the plan surveyor and plan preparer (see
                     Appendix B)
                        6. Approval/review signature blocks for the Township Board of Supervisors,
_________ _________  Township Planning Commission and Lehigh Valley Planning Commission staff (see
                     Appendix B)
                        7. Location map at a standard scale (such as 1 in. = 2,000 ft.) showing the
_________ _________  location of the project and watercourses, municipal borders and existing and proposed
                     streets adjacent to the parcel
_________ _________     8. North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
_________ _________     9. Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates (especially noting if this is a
                     revision of a previously approved plan)
_________ _________     10. Deed Book volume and page number from county records
_________ _________     11. Tax map number and block and lot number and property identification number for
                     the parcel being subdivided
                   D. EXISTING RESOURCES AND SITE ANALYSIS MAP:
_________ _________     1. Contour lines shall be:
                           a. Based on a field survey or photogrammetric procedure at an interval of 2
                   feet (or other interval pre-approved by the Township Engineer) at a scale of 1 in. =
                     100 ft. or larger;
                           b. Note: contours are not required to be shown within areas of lots of 10 acres
                   or more that are clearly not intended to be altered as a result of this proposed
                     subdivision, unless needed for stormwater management
_________ _________     2. Identification of any slopes of 15 to 25%, and greater than 25%
_________ _________     3. Areas within any hydric soils (see soil survey of Lehigh County), with a
                     notation that there are none if that is the case
_________ _________     4. Watercourses (with any name), natural springs, lakes and wetlands
_________ _________     5. Areas of existing mature woods, with areas noted that are proposed to be
                     preserved or removed
                   E. HUMAN-MADE FEATURES:
_________ _________     1. Existing and proposed lot lines
                           a. The boundaries of lots (other than a residual lot of at least 10 acres)
                   shall be determined by accurate field survey, closed with an error not to exceed 1 in
                     10,000 and balanced
                         b. The boundaries of any residual parcel which is greater than 10 acres may be
                     determined by deed
_________ _________     2. Location of existing and proposed monuments
                        3. Sufficient measurements of all lots, streets, rights-of-way, easements and
_________ _________  community or public areas to accurately and completely reproduce each and every
                     course on the ground
_________ _________     4. Buildings estimated to be 80 years or older that are proposed to be impacted by
                     the subdivision, with name and description
_________ _________     5. Sewer lines, stormwater facilities, water lines, bridges and culverts
                        6. Existing and proposed utility easements and restrictive covenants and easements
_________ _________  for purposes which might affect development (stating which easements and rights-of-
                     way proposed for dedication to the municipality)
_________ _________     7. Proposed (if known) and existing nonresidential building locations and land
                     uses
_________ _________     8. Easements/covenants addressing maintenance of stormwater easements
                   F. ZONING REQUIREMENTS:
_________ _________     1. Applicable zoning district name, zoning district boundaries and minimum lot
                     area
_________ _________     2. Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
_________ _________     3. Sufficient information to determine compliance with the zoning ordinance
                   G. PROPOSED LAYOUT:
_________ _________     1. Total acreage of site and total proposed number of lots
_________ _________     2. Identification number for each lot
_________ _________     3. Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for each lot
_________ _________     4. As applicable, the following existing and proposed items shall be shown for
                     each lot, using standard symbols that are identified in a legend on the plan.
                         a. Well (if not connected to central water system)-with required separation
                     distance shown from septic drain fields, and with dimensions from lot lines
                         b. Primary drain field (with dimensions from lot lines)
                         c. Secondary drain field - shall be perc tested, and dimensioned from lot lines
                         d. Suitable soil probe location
                         e. Suitable percolation test locations
_________ _________     5. Existing and proposed storm drainage facilities or structures
_________ _________     6. Exact slope across proposed primary and secondary on-lot sewage system sites
_________ _________     7. Plan showing proposed street address numbers of proposed lots, as issued by the
                     township
                   H. PLAN NOTATIONS:
_________ _________        a. “Well and sewage disposal systems shall be constructed in accordance with
                     standards of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.”
                           b. “Individual owners of lots must receive approval from the Township Sewage
                     Enforcement Officer for a sewage permit prior to undertaking the construction of an
_________ _________  on-lot sewage disposal system or building that will need to be served by such a
                     system. Additional, no development shall occur in the alternative drain field
                     location without the prior written approval of the Zoning Officer and Sewage
                     Enforcement Officer.”
_________ _________        c. “The township does not guarantee that any individual lot or location within
                     a lot will be able to sustain any type of well or sewage disposal system.”
                     I. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: The Planning Commission may require the submission of any
                   additional information that would be required for the final plan of a major
                     subdivision under §
                     154.092, if needed to determine compliance with this chapter
                        1. Residual lands sketch: if the submitted plans do not include all undeveloped or
                     underdeveloped adjacent or abutting lands owned by the same landowner or under
                     control of the same developer, then a sketch shall be submitted at an appropriate
_________ _________  scale, on one sheet, covering all such land holdings together with a sketch of a
                     reasonable future road system to demonstrate that the proposed subdivision provides
                     for the orderly development of any residual lands and/or does not adversely affect
                     the potential development of residual lands
                        2. Copy of the DEP sewage planning module application, if applicable, as completed
_________ _________  by the applicant, with evidence that the application has been forwarded to the proper
                     review agencies for comments
_________ _________     3. See the requirements of the township stormwater management ordinance
 
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.108 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS, MERGER OR CONSOLIDATION OF LOTS (ALSO REFERRED
TO AS REVERSE SUBDIVISIONS) AND MINOR REVISIONS OF APPROVED PLANS.
   (A)   The reduced submission requirements listed in this section shall
apply, together with the procedural requirements of §
154.106, if either of the following apply:
      (1)   The proposal will meet the definition of a “lot line adjustment”;
      (2)   The proposal only involves a merger or consolidation of lots (also
referred to as reverse subdivision) including two or more lots merging into
one; and/or
      (3)   In the determination of the township staff, which may be based upon
the advice of the Township Engineer, the proposal will involve revisions to a
previously approved plan and those revisions only involve changes in the
supporting documentation or engineering details or to correct erroneous data or
minor omissions concerning a plan previously granted final plan approval.
   (B)   The list of requirements in division (E) below shall serve as both a
list of requirements, and as a checklist for the applicant and the Township to
ensure completion of submissions. The applicant shall submit completed
photocopies of this section as part of the application. The required
information listed in this section may be combined or separated onto different
sheets, provided that the plans will be clearly readable.
   (C)   Additional information: the Planning Commission may require that a
plan under this section include the submission of specific additional
information that would be required if the plan would be a final minor
subdivision plan, if such specific information is necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   A merger or consolidation of lots (also referred to as reverse
subdivision) under this section shall result in the formation of one new lot
with one new recorded deed for that new lot.
   (E)   Township lot line adjustments, merger or consolidation of lots (also
referred to as reverse subdivisions) and minor revisions of approved plans.
 
Upper Milford Township Lot Line Adjustments, Merger or Consolidation of Lots
(Also referred to as Reverse Subdivisions) and Minor Revisions of Approved
Plans
Checklist and List of Submittal Requirements
Applicant’s Name: ____________________________________________________
Applicant’s Address: __________________________________________________
Applicant’s Daytime Phone No.: ____________________________________
Applicant’s Signature: __________________ Date of Submittal: ________________
*Place a check in the applicable column, except: 1) insert “NA” in the “Not
Submitted” column if not applicable, and 2) insert “W” in the “Not Submitted”
column if a waiver is requested from the requirement.
Submitted Not
          Submitted*
*Place a check in the applicable column, except: 1) insert “NA” in the “Not Submitted” column if not
applicable, and 2) insert “W” in the “Not Submitted” column if a waiver is requested from the
requirement.
Submitted Not
          Submitted*
_________ _________     1. Township application/review fee(s)/escrow
_________ _________     2. 3 copies of the completed application (see Appendix A)
_________ _________     3. 2 copies of this checklist (using the photocopies of the pages in this
                     section)
_________ _________     4. 4 print copies of the complete final plans
_________ _________     5. Notification of delivery by applicant of a copy of the plan to the Lehigh
                     Valley Planning Commission
_________ _________     6. Plans prepared on a standard sized sheet (such as 18 in. x 24 in., 24 in.
                     x 36 in., 30 in. x 42 in. or 36 in. x 48 in.)
_________ _________     7. Plans drawn at a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet or other standard scale
_________ _________     8. All dimensions set in feet and decimal parts thereof, and bearings in
                     degrees, minutes and seconds
_________ _________     9. Differentiation between existing and proposed features
_________ _________     10. Boundary line of the parcel, shown as a heavy line
_________ _________     11. Words “Final Plan” and name of project on each sheet
_________ _________     12. Notarized owners statement (see
                     Appendix B)
_________ _________     13. Plan preparer’s statement (See
                     Appendix B)
                        14. Approval/review signature blocks for Township Board of Supervisors,
_________ _________  Township Planning Commission and Lehigh Valley Planning Commission (see
                     Appendix B)
                        15. Location map at a standard scale (1 in. = 2,000 ft.) showing the
_________ _________  location of the project and existing and proposed streets adjacent to the
                     parcel and watercourses and municipal borders
_________ _________     16. North arrow, graphic scale, written scale
                        17. Date of plan and all subsequent revision dates and submission dates
_________ _________  (especially noting if this is a revision of a previously approved plan) with
                     space for future revision dates
_________ _________     18. Existing and proposed lot lines and street rights-of-way
_________ _________     19. Existing building locations and type of land uses
_________ _________     20. Applicable zoning district and required minimum lot area
_________ _________     21. Minimum setback requirements shown for each lot
_________ _________     22. Note stating type of water and sewer service proposed (such as “well and
                     on-lot septic systems”)
_________ _________     23. Lot width (at minimum building setback line) and lot area for each lot
_________ _________     24. Dimensions of each lot in feet
_________ _________     25. List of any modifications or waivers requested to this chapter
 
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.109 CERTIFICATION.
   Section
154.078 shall apply.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.110 RECORDING PLANS.
   Sections
154.145 through
154.147 shall apply.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEES
§ 154.125 GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before approving any subdivision or land development plan for
recording, the Board of Supervisors shall require that the township be assured
by means of a proper improvement agreement and performance guarantee that the
improvements required by this chapter and the improvements appearing on the
plan will be installed in strict accordance with the standards and
specifications of this chapter.
   (B)   Purpose of security: the security required by this subchapter shall
stand as security for compliance with all township ordinances, other laws,
covenants, stipulations, conditions and rules applicable to the subdivision or
land development for which it is filed.
   (C)   No construction of permanent buildings or sales of any individual lot
or condominium unit shall occur within a subdivision or land development
unless:
      (1)   There is on file, with the township, current duly executed and
approved security; or
      (2)   All rough grading is complete and all required public improvements,
utilities, streets, drainage facilities, sewers and street lights have been
completed and accepted by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.126 IMPROVEMENTS TO BE PROVIDED BY THE APPLICANT.
   (A)   In all cases, the subdivider or land developer shall be responsible
for the installation of all improvements required by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Township Engineer or other township designee shall make such
inspections of the required improvements at such intervals as may be reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with this chapter. The reasonable costs of such
inspection shall be borne by the subdivider or land developer.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.127 IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Improvement agreement required.
      (1)   All applicants proposing any subdivision or land development which
provides for the installation of improvements required by this chapter or any
improvements or amenities which appear on the final plan shall be required to
enter into a legally binding improvement agreement with the township prior to
recording of the final plan, unless the applicant agrees to meet §
154.125 concerning the construction of all improvements prior to the
construction of any buildings or the sale of any lots or home sites.
      (2)   The improvement agreement shall guarantee the installation of said
improvements in strict accordance with all township requirements.
   (B)   Terms of improvement agreement. The improvement agreement shall be
acceptable in legal form to the Township Solicitor and shall be acceptable in
content to the Township Board of Supervisors. The township may require that a
improvement agreement include any of the following items, where applicable, and
such additional items as are necessary to carry out this chapter:
      (1)   The construction depicted on the approved plans, listed in itemized
format, including all approved streets, drainage facilities, utility lines and
other improvements;
      (2)   A work schedule setting forth the beginning and ending dates of
such work tied to the construction of the development, and provisions to allow
proper inspection by the Township Engineer;
      (3)   The provision of a performance guarantee for completion of required
improvements in compliance with §
154.128, including a detailed breakdown of the estimated costs of the
improvements, including the total amount of the performance guarantee;
      (4)   Provisions concerning the developer’s responsibilities for damage
to other property, including maintenance by the developer of public liability
insurance for the duration of improvements construction, with a hold harmless
clause to protect the township from liability related to such work. A copy or
other evidence of such liability coverage shall be provided to the township
prior to such work;
      (5)   Provisions requiring that the applicant and/or other responsible
entities ensure that erosion, sedimentation and stormwater management plans are
complied with;
      (6)   Provisions for the dedication of streets, water and sewer lines and
any other easements or improvements proposed to be dedicated;
      (7)   See §
154.146 concerning the requirement for a record plan;
      (8)   Provisions for the developer to reimburse the township for all
reasonable engineering costs directly related to the review, construction and
inspection of the proposed development and to the review and preparation of the
improvement agreements;
      (9)   Provisions concerning any violations of the improvement agreement;
      (10)   Any other lawful terms which the Board of Supervisors may require
to carry out the provisions of this chapter; and
      (11)   Signatures: the improvement agreement shall be signed by all
responsible landowners and/or developers.
   (C)   Ownership of land and guarantee.
      (1)   Certificate. A certificate of ownership in the form of
Appendix B shall be executed in the exact name in which title is held. If the
developer(s) is someone other than the landowner(s), the developer shall also
execute this affidavit, along with a security agreement.
      (2)   Change in ownership or developer. Any conveyance of all or a
substantial portion of the unimproved lots or public improvements or streets of
any subdivision or land development or change in developers, whether voluntary
or by action of law or otherwise, shall require the prior approval of the Board
of Supervisors to guarantee validity of the approved plan and conditions. The
Board of Supervisors shall require that such new landowner and/or developer, in
writing, fully assume all applicable responsibilities under the improvement
agreement, including providing required financial security.
   (D)   Utility agreements. If a development will connect into a public water
or public sanitary sewage system, the applicable authority, agency or company
may also require separate improvement agreements.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.128 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   The performance guarantee for completion of required improvements shall meet
the following requirements.
   (A)   Security.
      (1)   The guarantee shall be secured by the credit of any of the
following:
         (a)   An irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit of a federal
or state chartered lending institution;
         (b)   A restrictive or escrow account in a federal or state chartered
lending institution; or
         (c)   Such other financial security approved by the Board of
Supervisors (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), but not
including a second or third mortgage on the unimproved lands.
      (2)   Such approved security shall provide for, and secure to the public,
the completion of any improvements which may be required within one year of the
date fixed in the improvement agreement for the completion of such
improvements.
      (3)   Such financial security shall be posted with a federally issued or
state chartered lending institution chosen by the party posting the financial
security, or such other approved entity, provided such institution or entity is
authorized to conduct such business within the state.
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors may require that evidence be provided
that such institution or entity has sufficiently adequate and secure assets to
cover the security.
         (b)   The township shall be the authorized signatory on any account in
which the escrow funds are held.
   (B)   Amount of security.
      (1)   The amount of financial security to be posted for the completion of
the required improvements shall be equal to 110% of the cost of completion
estimated as of 90 days following the date scheduled for completion by the
developer in the official development schedule, and within the process for
increases to cover inflation as permitted by the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
      (2)   The cost of the improvements shall be established by an estimate
prepared by a state registered professional engineer, which shall be reviewed
by the Township Engineer, within the arbitration process permitted by the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
      (3)   If the party posting the financial security requires more than one
year from the date of posting of the financial security to complete the
required improvements, the amount of financial security may be increased by a
maximum of an additional 10% for each one-year period beyond the first
anniversary date from posting of financial security or to an amount not
exceeding 110% of the cost of completing the required improvements as
reestablished on or about the expiration of the preceding one-year period by
using the above procedure.
      (4)   Inspection fees: the amount of financial security shall also
include an additional 5% of the estimated cost of completion of the work to
guarantee payment of inspection fees and related engineering costs.
   (C)   Multi-year or multi-stage development. In the case where development
is projected over a period of years, the Board of Supervisors may authorize
submission of final plans by phases/stages of development subject to such
requirements or improvement guarantees concerning future improvements as it
finds necessary for the proper functioning of each phase and for the eventual
development as a whole.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.129 APPROVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Advance notice by developer of construction of improvements.
      (1)   Meetings: prior to construction or installation of improvements in
any new phase or any major facet of construction, the developer or his or her
representative shall contact the Township Engineer to determine whether a pre-
construction meeting is needed. The Township Engineer may require that such
meeting be attended by the responsible contractor(s) and responsible
representatives of the developer. In addition, meetings may be required with
the utility companies as needed.
      (2)   The developer or his or her representative shall provide a minimum
of three business days prior notice to the township staff prior to beginning
each major facet of construction, in order to allow the scheduling of
inspections. See also §
154.163(K)(10), which requires five business days advance notice for street
construction.
      (3)   The developer should notify the township in writing when one-third
and two-thirds of the total dollar value of the improvements are completed, and
a list of those items completed.
      (4)   See §
154.130(A)(1)(b) concerning improvements completed without proper township
inspection.
   (B)   Request for release of security. When an improvement has been
completed, the party posting the financial security shall notify the township
and request in writing to the Board of Supervisors by certified or registered
mail release of related financial security. The developer shall send a copy of
that letter to the Township Engineer at the same time.
   (C)   Engineer’s report.
      (1)   Within 30 days of a receipt under division (B) above, the Township
Engineer shall submit a written report certifying which improvements have been
completed in accordance with the approved plan to the Board of Supervisors and
mail a copy of such report by certified or registered mail to the developer or
his or her representative at his or her last known address.
      (2)   This report shall be based on the inspections made according to the
approved inspection schedule included in the improvement agreement and shall
recommend approval or rejection of the improvements, either in whole or in
part.
      (3)   If the Township Engineer finds any or all of the improvements to be
not as required, he or she shall include a statement of the reasons for
recommending their rejection in the report.
   (D)   Release of security.
      (1)   After receiving the Township Engineer’s report (but not later than
45 days of the receipt of the request) the township staff shall review the
Township Engineer’s report and shall authorize release of an amount as
estimated by the Township Engineer fairly representing the value of the
improvements completed.
      (2)   Until final release (completion of all improvements), the township
may require retention of a maximum of 10% of the cost of each completed
improvement.
      (3)   The township shall notify the developer in writing by certified or
registered mail of the decision.
   (E)   Completion of unaccepted improvements. The developer shall complete
any required improvements that the Board of Supervisors determines are not
satisfactory or complete. Upon completion, the applicant may request approval
in conformance with the procedures specified in § 508 of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. § 10508.
   (F)   Final release.
      (1)   When the developer has completed all of the required and necessary
improvements, the developer shall request final release in conformance with the
procedures specified in this section. See time limitations and procedures in §
510 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10510.
      (2)   Such final release shall include all monies retained under division
(D)(2) above.
   (G)   Appeal. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the developer’s
right to contest or question by legal proceedings or otherwise any
determination of the Board of Supervisors or the Township Engineer.
   (H)   Certificates of use and occupancy and completion of improvements.
      (1)   A temporary or final certificate of use and occupancy shall not be
issued and a structure shall not be occupied unless all principal buildings
have access to a clearly permanently passable street with at least a complete
paving base course and any required curbing installed.
      (2)   In addition to division (H)(1) above, no final certificate of use
and occupancy shall be issued until the structure is completed as approved with
service by all required utilities and with all access onto a street completed
to required standards, if applicable.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.130 REMEDIES TO EFFECT COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Enforcement of security.
      (1)   (a)   Generally. The township shall have the authority to use
remedies to effect completion of required improvements as provided in § 511 of
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10511. In
addition, the township may pursue civil prosecution of a violation of this
chapter.
         (b)   Construction without inspection. If required improvements have
been completed without providing the Township Engineer or his or her
representatives with proper opportunity for inspection, and as a result the
Township Engineer cannot determine whether the improvements were properly
constructed, then the Board of Supervisors may require that the developer, at
the developer’s expense, remove, replace, sample, test or reconstruct such
improvements as necessary to determine compliance with this chapter and other
applicable township standards.
      (2)   Rate of construction. Failure of a developer to construct streets
and other public improvements reasonably at the same time or prior to the
construction of the buildings served by those streets or public improvements,
and at the same rate in time at which buildings are completed, shall be a
violation of this chapter and a cause for default of the security.
   (B)   Completion by township. If the proceeds of such security are
insufficient to pay the cost of installing or making repairs or corrections to
all the improvements covered by said security, the Board of Supervisors may, at
its option, install or replace part of such improvements in all or part of the
subdivision or land development and may institute appropriate legal or
equitable action to recover the monies necessary to complete the remainder of
the improvements.
   (C)   Proceeds for installation of improvements. The proceeds from use of
the security and/or from any legal or equitable action brought against the
developer shall be used solely for the installation of the improvements covered
by such security and directly related administrative costs.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.131 MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Maintenance guarantee required. All applicants proposing any
subdivision or land development
which provides for the dedication of improvements required by this chapter
shall be required to provide a legally binding maintenance guarantee to the
township prior to acceptance of dedication of the improvements by the township.
In most cases, this guarantee will be part of the security agreement.
   (B)   Terms of maintenance guarantee. The maintenance guarantee shall be
acceptable in legal form to the Township Solicitor and in content to the Board
of Supervisors, and shall include all of the following:
      (1)   The applicant make any repair or reconstruction of any improvement
stipulated in the maintenance agreement which is specified by the Board of
Supervisors if needed because of faulty construction, workmanship, or
materials, prior to acceptance of such improvement by the township;
      (2)   The applicant maintain at his or her own cost all improvements
stipulated in the maintenance agreement, up to a maximum period of 18 months
from the date of completion, except for any special purpose escrow or
maintenance agreements required by the township; and
      (3)   The applicant post financial security to secure structural
integrity of said improvements as well as the functioning of said improvements
in accordance with the design and specifications as depicted on the final plan,
for a maximum term of 18 months from the date of completion.
   (C)   Public utilities and authorities.
      (1)   If water mains or sanitary sewer lines, or both and related
apparatus or facilities are to be installed under the jurisdiction and under
the rules and regulations of a public utility or municipal authority, financial
security to assure proper completion and maintenance thereof shall be posted in
accordance with the regulations of the controlling public utility or municipal
authority.
      (2)   This amount of financial security shall not also be required by the
township if it is required by such utility or authority.
   (D)   Type of security. The maintenance guarantee shall be secured by the
same form of security as is permitted for the improvements guarantees.
   (E)   Terms.
      (1)   Such maintenance guarantee shall be in the form approved by the
Township Solicitor and Board of Supervisors, payable to the township, to
guarantee the maintenance and repair of the streets and other public
improvements in the subdivision or land development for 18 months from the date
of completion.
      (2)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Board of
Supervisors that there will be an acceptable system for the long-term
maintenance of any stormwater detention basins.
   (F)   Amount. The amount of the maintenance guarantee shall be determined by
the applicant’s engineer, conditioned upon acceptance by Board of Supervisors,
but shall not exceed 15% of the actual cost of installation of such
improvements.
   (G)   Release. After a maximum of 18 months from the date of acceptance of
dedication of said improvements, the township shall release the maintenance
guarantee to the developer (or party that posted the guarantee) if all
improvements are in satisfactory condition, as determined by the township.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN
§ 154.145 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAN.
   (A)   Deadline.
      (1)   The applicant is responsible to ensure that the final plan for any
subdivision or land development as approved by the Board of Supervisors is
provided to the Township Engineer in a form ready for recording within 90 days
after such final approval. The Township Engineer or his or her designee shall
then record the final plan.
      (2)   If the final plan approval included official conditions that must
be met prior to recording, then the plan shall be recorded within 90 days
following the compliance with such conditions, up to a maximum total of one
year following the final plan approval, unless a written extension is provided
by the Board of Supervisors.
   (B)   Costs of recording. The applicant shall be required to compensate the
township for costs of the recording.
   (C)   Recordation requirements. The final plan shall not be recorded unless
the applicant proves that they have met all required conditions that the
township staff and/or Township Engineer determine would impact the recorded
final plan, including, but not limited to, issuance of any required PennDOT
highway occupancy permit.
   (D)   Failure to record. Failure to record the final plan within the
specified time periods shall cause the approval to become null and void.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.146 RECORD PLAN.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide to the township one signed reproducible
and four signed paper clear and legible copies of the record plan, unless the
County Recorder of Deeds Office may require a different format. The township
copies shall be made after recording, and shall be exact copies of those
portions of the approved final plan that the township requires to be recorded.
   (B)   Such record plan, at a minimum, shall include all of the following:
      (1)   Street rights-of-way;
      (2)   Common open spaces;
      (3)   Easements, and any covenants that the township required to be
placed on the final plan;
      (4)   Lot lines and lot dimensions;
      (5)   Water lines, sanitary and storm sewer lines and stormwater drainage
facilities;
      (6)   The required signatures of township officials and the Lehigh Valley
Planning Commission staff and the date of township approvals;
      (7)   Notations stating whether the streets, any common open space and
other proposed improvements are to be offered or not offered for dedication to
the township;
      (8)   Buildings associated with land development applications;
      (9)   Proposed curb, sidewalk and recreation trails;
      (10)   Waivers and modifications and Zoning Hearing Board decisions, and
associated conditions, and dates of such approvals; and
      (11)   Additional information from the complete final plan that the
township may require be shown.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.147 EFFECT OF RECORDING.
   (A)   Private improvements. Every street, park or other improvement shown on
a subdivision or land development plan that is recorded, as provided herein,
shall be deemed to be a private street, open space or improvement until such
time it may be offered and officially accepted for dedication to the township,
or is duly condemned.
   (B)   Dedication of improvements. The record plan shall state by formal
notation whether the streets, any common open space and other proposed
improvements are proposed to be offered or not offered for dedication to the
township.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.160 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The design standards and improvements required
in this subchapter are the minimum requirements for approval of a subdivision
or land development.
   (B)   Modifications, waivers and exceptions. See §
154.007.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.161 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   This subchapter sets forth the design and construction standards for
required improvements, regardless of whether the improvement will be dedicated
to the township.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.162 OVERALL REQUIREMENTS; TREE PRESERVATION; EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Suitability. Land shall be suitable for the purpose for which it is to
be subdivided or developed.
   (B)   Hazardous conditions. Subdivisions or land developments subject to
hazardous conditions (such as open quarries, hazardous or toxic site pollution,
limestone solution channels, unconsolidated fill, floods, excessive erosion or
unsafe water supply) shall not be approved until the developer has provided or
has legally committed to provide adequate measures to overcome or eliminate the
hazards, in the determination of the Board of Supervisors, to the best of their
knowledge. See also the township’s floodplain requirements in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Zoning. All aspects of a proposed subdivision or land development
shall conform to the township zoning ordinance and all other township
ordinances and specifications.
   (D)   Nearby development. A subdivision or land development and its street
pattern shall be coordinated with existing or approved nearby developments or
neighborhoods to help develop the area harmoniously and to help prevent
conflicts between neighboring development.
   (E)   Open burning. Open burning during construction is controlled by a
separate township ordinance.
   (F)   Preservation of existing trees. The provisions in the zoning ordinance
shall apply.
   (G)   Erosion control and soil protection.
      (1)   Ground cover and top soil: after completion of construction on a
lot, all exposed ground surfaces that are not paved and that are not covered by
approved gravel areas or decorative stones or similar material shall be covered
by a minimum of six inches of topsoil and a vegetative ground cover that will
prevent soil erosion and the raising of dust.
      (2)   Erosion control: any earth disturbance should be controlled by
proper measures to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation, following DEP
regulations and standards of the County Conservation District.
         (a)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan is required to be
submitted to the County Conservation District and found to be acceptable for
most types of earth disturbance under the state regulations.
         (b)   Compliance with such plan shall be an automatic condition of any
approval or permit under this chapter.
         (c)   Township permits may be suspended if earth disturbance does not
comply with such approved plan.
      (3)   Both the owner of the property at the time of any earth disturbance
and the person(s)/company accomplishing the work shall be responsible to ensure
that adequate erosion control measures are used, and that the grading is in
compliance with the township-approved plan.
      (4)   All lots, tracts or parcels shall be graded in accordance with the
township stormwater management ordinance to provide proper drainage away from
buildings, prevent any surface runoff from ponding, and all other stated
purposes of such ordinance.
      (5)   Grading shall be done in such a way so as to not divert water
(other than runoff that previously occurred) onto the property of another
landowner without the express consent of the township and the written
permission from the landowner.
      (6)   During grading operations, necessary measures for off-premises dust
and mud control shall be exercised at all times in accordance with approved
erosion and sedimentation control plans.
      (7)   Grading equipment shall not be permitted to cross through streams.
Provisions shall be made for the installation of temporary culverts and/or
bridges as necessary and such crossings shall be permitted in accordance with
requirements of DEP.
      (8)   Excavations and fills.
         (a)   Cut and fill slopes shall be no steeper than two to one (2:1)
unless stabilized by a retaining wall or cribbing except as approved by the
Township Engineer under special conditions. Slopes exceeding three to one (3:1)
must have suitable protection against erosion until stabilization is achieved.
         (b)   Fills shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of soil.
         (c)   Fill shall not encroach on watercourses.
         (d)   Fill places adjacent to natural watercourses or constructed
channels shall have suitable protection against erosion during periods of
flooding.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.163 STREETS.
   (A)   Access to streets.
      (1)   Generally. All proposed subdivisions and land developments shall
have adequate and safe access to the public street system.
      (2)   Frontage.
         (a)   Any lot created under this chapter shall have frontage and
access onto either:
            1.   A public street (which may be required to be improved as
necessary under division (L) below); or
            2.   A private street constructed to the same standards as a public
street and that has a permanent system to ensure adequate maintenance.
         (b)   If a residential lot is adjacent to two streets, it shall only
have vehicle access onto one street. Such limitation shall be stated on the
plan.
      (3)   Private streets and an existing lot. A pre-existing lawful lot of
record that abuts an existing private street that does not meet township
standards may have access for a single principal use onto such private street,
but no new lot shall be created with access onto such street.
      (4)   Access for emergency vehicles.
         (a)   Suitable access for emergency vehicles shall be provided within
all subdivisions and land developments, including adequate clear width, and
including access to reach all principal buildings. Driveways shall be designed
to be accessible to emergency vehicles. Driveways that are greater than 100
feet in length and that provide access to a principal building shall have a
ten-foot minimum horizontal clearance, a 12-foot minimum vertical clearance and
be designed to accommodate the weight of a fire engine with a 73,000 pound
aggregate vehicle weight.
         (b)   Where an access is limited to use by emergency vehicles, the
following standards shall apply:
            1.   A township-appointed method shall be used to restrict access
by non-emergency vehicles, with such construction detail submitted to the
township;
            2.   One coordinated emergency accessway may be shared by adjacent
developments;
            3.   Existing or proposed utility easements or rights-of-way should
be considered for use an emergency accessways;
            4.   The applicant shall provide evidence that the design of the
emergency access will be able to accommodate the weight of emergency vehicles;
and
            5.   Such access should be offered for review by the local fire
company.
   (B)   Streets and topography. Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the
contour of the land to produce usable lots and reasonably sloped streets. See
the street grade regulations in division (F) below.
   (C)   Street continuations.
      (1)   Stub street right-of-way.
         (a)   Where deemed necessary by the Board of Supervisors for efficient
movement of traffic, a subdivision or land development shall include the
extension of a street right-of-way to the boundary line of the parcel proposed
for development to provide for an eventual extension into the adjacent tract
for efficient circulation of traffic throughout the area. If a stub street is
constructed, see division (I)(4) below, which addresses temporary turnarounds.
         (b)   The township may require that a concept sketch be submitted
showing that the proposed stub street is at a logical location to link with an
adjacent parcel.
      (2)   Widening. Where a subdivision or land development abuts or contains
an existing street of inadequate cartway or right-of-way width, additional
right-of-way and/or cartway width shall be required conforming with Table
154.163: Design Standards for Streets. See division (L) below concerning right-
of-way.
   (D)   Intersections.
      (1)   Generally. The centerlines of streets shall intersect at right
angles except where the Board of Supervisors grant a modification under §
154.007 after finding that a right angle intersection is not feasible. In such
case, the intersection shall be at as nearly a right angle as possible, with an
absolute minimum angle of 75 degrees.
      (2)   Alignment of street intersections.
         (a)   No more than four legs of streets shall intersect at one point,
regardless of the names given to each street.
         (b)   Where a proposed street or access drive intersects an existing
cross street, such proposed street or access drive shall be aligned with any
street intersecting on the other side of the cross street.
         (c)   If a proposed street cannot intersect at the same location as a
street on the other side of the cross street, then the proposed street shall be
offset by the following minimum distances from the nearest intersection of
streets:
            1.   One hundred and fifty feet along a local street;
            2.   Four hundred feet along a collector street;
            3.   Eight hundred feet along an arterial street; and
            4.   Measurement: the minimum distances of this division (D)(2)(c)
shall be measured between the points where the centerlines of the rights-of-way
of the intersecting streets intersect with the centerline of the cross street.
      (3)   Curb lines. At street intersections, curb lines shall be rounded by
arcs with the radii listed below, whichever is most restrictive. The right-of-
way shall be maintained at least ten feet from the inside of the curb line or
edge of pavement. A larger radius may be required by the township where
necessary for trucks or buses (such as off-site intersections) or by PennDOT.
 
Type of Street                         Minimum Radius of Arc at Intersection of
                                       Pavement Edge or Curb Line (in feet)
Any street within an industrial
district or that provides truck access 55
to an industrial district
At least one arterial street, other    40
than above
At least one collector street, but no  30
arterial street, other than above
Local streets, other than above        15
 
   (E)   Access management.
      (1)   Where a subdivision or land development abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial or collector street, the township shall require:
         (a)   The minimization of the number and length of driveway cuts or
street intersections onto an arterial or collector street, which may include
requiring the use of shared driveways between adjacent uses or lots;
         (b)   The restriction of ingress and egress involving left-hand turns
onto or off of the arterial or collector street with township-approved medians,
signage and/or other devices to prevent unauthorized turns;
         (c)   The prohibition of driveways from individual dwellings entering
directly onto an arterial or collector street. If there is no alternative to
this, each driveway entering onto an arterial or collector street shall have
adequate turnaround space for vehicles provided within the lot so that vehicles
do not back onto the street; and/or
         (d)   The construction of a rear street to link driveways from two or
more business lots to reach a more appropriate access point onto a more heavily
traveled road.
      (2)   All access to commercial and office lots within a subdivision or
land development shall use internal access and shared driveways to the maximum
extent feasible, as opposed to separate driveway access to roads from
individual uses and lots.
      (3)   See §
154.172 concerning access connections between commercial use parking lots.
      (4)   A maximum of one access shall be permitted per lot onto any one
arterial road. A maximum of one additional access point may be permitted if the
applicant demonstrates through a capacity and circulation analysis that an
additional access point is necessary to accommodate traffic to and from the
site and can be achieved in a safe and efficient manner, or where specifically
required by PennDOT.
      (5)   Lawful existing commercial lots that do not limit vehicle access to
defined driveway locations shall be brought into conformance with this chapter
and the driveway width requirements of the zoning ordinance as a condition of a
new subdivision or land development approval or where such change is required
under a state highway occupancy permit.
      (6)   Unless specifically required otherwise by the township or PennDOT,
where a property fronts on two or more roads, access shall be obtained from the
lowest functional classification road.
      (7)   See maximum driveway slope at approaches to a road in §
154.171.
      (8)   See minimum and maximum width of driveway openings in §§
155.160 through
155.164 of this code of ordinances.
      (9)   See sight distance requirements in division (H) below.
      (10)   The installation of a non-traversable median may be required along
an arterial road where in the opinion of the Township Engineer in conjunction
with Penn DOT (where relevant), the median is needed to reinforce the
prohibition of left turns to or from a driveway. The placement, type and design
of the median barrier shall be in accordance with the most recent edition of
Penn DOT Publication 13M, Design Manual Part II or its successor standard.
      (11)   For minimum use driveways (as defined by PennDOT), the radii shall
be a minimum of 15 feet. For low volume and medium volume driveways (as defined
by PennDOT), the radii shall be a minimum of 25 feet. For high volume
driveways, the minimum radii shall be as approved by the Township Engineer. In
all cases, the radii shall be designed to accommodate the largest vehicle
expected to frequently use the driveway. Except for joint driveways, no portion
of a driveway radius may be located on or along the frontage of an adjacent
property.
   (F)   Street design standards.
      (1)   Minimum street design standards.
         (a)   Minimum street design standards shall be as shown in Table
154.163, unless PennDOT establishes a more restrictive requirement along a
state road.
         (b)   Rear or side alleys, where approved, shall have a minimum
cartway width of 16 feet for two-way traffic and 12 feet for one-way traffic.
      (2)   Shoulders: in addition to the cartway widths stated above, any
street that does not have curbs shall include appropriate eight feet wide
shoulders along each side of an arterial street, six feet wide shoulders along
each side of the cartway of a collector street and four feet wide shoulders on
each side of the cartway of a local street.
         (a)   See construction standards in division (K) below.
         (b)   If the shoulders are paved, they shall be separated by a stripe
from the travel-lanes.
      (3)   Horizontal curves shall connect street lines that are deflected in
excess of two degrees. Vertical curves shall be used at changes of grade
exceeding 1%. The length of the vertical curve shall be determined by the
required sight distance specified in Table 154.163. Vertical curves shall be
calculated following the latest published standards of PennDOT. Horizontal
curves shall be calculated based upon the following AASHTO formula:  R min = V
2 / 15*(0.01e+f max ).
      (4)   All approaches to intersections shall have a leveling area not
greater than 4% grade for a minimum distance of 25 feet, measured from the
nearest edge of cartway of the intersecting street. Vertical curves near an
intersection on a local street may be reduced to a 20 mph design speed if a
stop condition will be utilized.
      (5)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall be 1.0%.
      (6)   A minimum tangent of 100 feet, measured from edge of cartway, shall
be required between a curve and a street intersection.
Table 154.163: Design Standards for Streets (All Dimensions in Feet Unless
Specified)
                      Type of Street:
Design Specifications Arterial Collector Local
Table 154.163: Design Standards for Streets (All Dimensions in Feet Unless
Specified)
                                                         Type of Street:
Design Specifications                                    Arterial Collector Local
Cartway width:                                                             
   - w/curbs on both sides and no on-street parking   30       30        26*****
   - w/curbs on both sides and on-street parking on 1 34       34        30*****
side
   - w/curbs on both sides and on-street parking on 2 36       36        36 **
sides
Cartway width without curbs and without on-street
parking (plus shoulders if required by division (F)(2)   24 to 32 24 to 30  22*****
above, plus turning lanes as determined to be needed by
the Board of Supervisors or PennDOT)
Maximum grade****                                        6%       8%        10%
Minimum centerline radii for horizontal curves           500***   300       200
Minimum grade                                            1.0%     1.0%      1.0%
Minimum sight distance*                                  500      300       200
Minimum tangent between reverse curves, measured along   200      100       100
the street centerline
Plus acceleration/deceleration lane width (where
determined to be needed by the Board of Supervisors or   11       11        NA
PennDOT)
Right-of-way width                                       80****** 60******  50
* These standards are for road sight distance, not clear sight distance at
intersections. Horizontal sight distances shall be measured from a point 3.5 feet
above the road surface to a point 6 inches above the road surface, and shall be
based upon standards of PennDOT
** A local residential street serving only single-family detached dwellings may
have a minimum cartway width of 26 feet for portions of a cul-de-sac street that
ultimately will not serve more than 200 average weekday trip-ends. This reduction
shall not apply to a cul-de-sac street that may be extended in the future to serve
additional traffic
*** Larger radii may be required as determined to be needed by the Township
Engineer or PennDOT. The township may approve a reduced horizontal curve
requirements if the applicant proves that the curve would not typically cause
vehicles to cross the centerline and if such reduction if proven to be necessary
because of the unique conditions of the property
**** Up to 400 feet of length of a local street may have a maximum grade of 12% if
the township determines a less steep grade is not feasible
***** A 32 foot wide minimum cartway width shall be required abutting a development
of townhouses or apartments. In addition, a minimum of 0.5 additional parking space
per dwelling shall be provided for overflow parking
****** As may be established by PennDOT along a state road
 
      (7)   Second access to development: any subdivision or land development
of more than 25 dwelling units shall have at least two means of vehicle access
into the development. The second means of access may be limited to emergency
vehicles, provided the applicant proves the access will be properly designed
for its intended purpose. See division (A)(4) above regarding emergency access.
      (8)   Boulevard entrance: where the Board of Supervisors determine that
additional measures are needed to make sure that a street entrance to a
subdivision or land development will not be obstructed, the Supervisors may
require that a boulevard-type of street entrance be used. The intent is to
separate entrances and exits so that both sides of the street are unlikely to
be obstructed at the same time. This shall include a one-way entrance of at
least 20 feet width and a one-way exit of at least 20 feet width, separated by
an island at least ten feet in width, with a right-of-way width of 70 feet.
      (9)   See division (L) below regarding improvements to existing streets.
   (G)   Street crown.
      (1)   With the exception of alleys and divided streets, streets shall be
constructed with a center crowned cross-section with a minimum slope of 2% and
a maximum slope of 4% from the street centerline, unless required otherwise by
PennDOT for a state road.
      (2)   An alley may have an inverted crown.
   (H)   Clear sight triangle; minimum sight distance.
      (1)   Clear sight triangle.
         (a)   See the clear sight triangle requirements in the zoning
ordinance.
         (b)   In addition, the township may require that such clear sight
triangle be elongated where a new street or driveway will enter onto an
arterial or collector street. Such clear sight triangle shall be designed to
keep an area free of sight obstructions that is equal in length along the
arterial or collector street to the clear sight distance that would be required
under PennDOT sight distance requirements. Such clear sight triangle may be
required regardless of whether a state road is involved.
      (2)   Sight distances.
         (a)   An applicant for access for a new street or driveway onto a
township street shall prove that the new access would meet the same PennDOT
sight distance requirements as if the street was a state road. See § 441.8 of
PennDOT highway occupancy regulations, or its successor sections, including the
safe stopping sight distance table.
         (b)   If the applicant proves to the township that it is not possible
to meet the desirable sight distances that are stated in PennDOT regulations,
then the intersection shall be located at the point of maximum sight distances
that are achievable within the street length of the property and shall meet the
minimum required safe sight distances set forth in such PennDOT regulations.
         (c)   In the event that the applicant proves to the township that the
minimum required safe sight distances cannot be met, then the Board of
Supervisors may require one or more of the following:
            1.   Require that the intersection be located at the point where
maximum sight distance can be achieved;
            2.   Restrict turning movements into or out of the intersection
(such as no left turns into or out of the intersection);
            3.   Require the installation of a right turn acceleration or
deceleration lane;
            4.   Require the installation of a left turn standby lane;
            5.   Require that the horizontal or vertical alignment of the
street be altered;
            6.   Require an alternative form of access, such as a shared
driveway with another lot, or access onto a different street; and/or
            7.   Deny approval of the plan on the grounds that the minimum safe
distance requirement cannot be met and that therefore public safety cannot be
adequately protected, and/or that any restrictions on turning movements would
not be practical or would have adverse impacts upon other properties and
streets that may be used for turnarounds.
         (d)   In the event that turning movements from an intersection are to
be restricted, the applicant shall provide a detailed design of the proposed
intersection and an engineering analysis of the anticipated impacts resulting
from such restricted turning movements. The design and analysis shall be
prepared by a professional engineer with expertise in traffic engineering, and
shall address the following:
            1.   The impacts on other lots and streets within the vicinity that
may be used by motorists for turnarounds;
            2.   The impacts on public safety, considering sight distance and
types of vehicles; and
            3.   The provision of appropriate methods to ensure compliance with
the turning restrictions, such as channelization, alignment and signage. Such
methods meet applicable standards of PennDOT.
   (I)   Cul-de-sac streets.
      (1)   Cul-de-sac streets shall be permitted with a maximum length of
1,000 feet. Cul-de-sac streets shall be provided with a turnaround with a
minimum paved radius of 50 feet to the face of the edge of the cartway. The
radius of the right-of-way line return between the bulb and stem of cul-de-sacs
shall be a minimum of 150 feet. The curb line or pavement edge radius shall be
a minimum of 160 feet.
      (2)   The circular right-of-way of the cul-de-sac shall maintain a
minimum ten feet width between the edge of paving and the edge of the right-of-
way. The circular paving of the cul-de-sac shall be connected to the approach
paving by an arc having a radius of not less than 50 feet.
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may permit acceptable alternative
turnaround designs where adjustments are needed because of topography.
         (a)   The turnaround shall have a sufficient radius to allow movement
by school buses, snow plows and delivery trucks, even if a vehicle is parked
along the side of the cartway. To accomplish this, a 45-foot radius turnaround
shall be required as part of an alternative design and a 24-foot wide paved
cartway shall be provided.
         (b)   Where a landscaped island is approved in the center of the cul-
de-sac, any curbing should be of a mountable design to provide better access
for emergency vehicles. The township may require the establishment of a
homeowner association to maintain any landscaped island.
      (4)   No street shall dead-end without an approved turnaround at the end
of the street. Temporary stub streets shall be required to include at least a
temporary cul-de-sac, if the stub would be longer than 150 feet or serve more
than two dwellings or lots. In such case, the temporary cul-de-sac land area
that is excess shall revert to the adjacent landowners after the turnaround is
no longer used. Areas of a temporary cul-de-sac turnaround that is within a
proposed street extension shall be constructed to public street construction
standards. Areas outside of such street extension shall be constructed with a
minimum of six inches depth of compacted PennDOT Type 2A aggregate or better.
      (5)   The maximum cross slope on the circular part of a cul-de-sac shall
be 6%.
      (6)   A cul-de-sac street shall serve a maximum of 25 dwelling units or
250 trips per weekday for nonresidential uses. See also division (F)(7) above.
      (7)   A snow storage easement shall be established at the end of the cul-
de-sac, which shall provide for proper drainage as the snow melts. This
easement shall be located so that a snow plow can push snow relatively straight
from the street to the far end of the cul-de-sac. This snow storage easement
shall be located clear of any driveways, mail boxes and electric transformers,
and have a minimum width of 40 feet. The snow storage easement shall not
obstruct any inlet, and any curbing shall be depressed at the easement. The
required curb reveal shall be determined in the field by the Township Engineer.
      (8)   The township may require that a cul-de-sac street near the edge of
a subdivision or land development include provisions to allow the street to be
extended in the future onto an adjacent tract. This shall include provisions
for a public street right-of-way to the edge of the tract. In such case, the
construction costs to extend the street shall be borne by the adjacent
developer in the future.
   (J)   Maintenance of a non-public street. As a condition for final plan
approval, the developer must enter into a legally binding agreement which shall
state who is to be responsible for the improvement and maintenance of any
street not approved to become dedicated in the future. If an association of
property owners is to be made responsible, such association must be legally
organized according to a timetable approved by the township.
   (K)   Street design and construction standards.
      (1)   Generally. Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be graded,
improved and surfaced to the grades and dimensions shown on plans, profiles and
cross-sections submitted by the developer and as approved by the Board of
Supervisors and shall meet applicable township standards.
      (2)   Right-of-way grading.
         (a)   The right-of-way shall be graded according to the cross-section
submitted by the applicant after it has been approved. The excavation shall be
backfilled and suitably compacted to the satisfaction of the Township Engineer.
         (b)   The finished street surface shall be crowned in conformance with
the township specifications.
         (c)   A proper super-elevation (banked curves) shall be provided on
arterial and collector streets when required by the Township Engineer.
      (3)   Grading beyond right-of-way.
         (a)   The subdivider or developer may be required to grade beyond the
right-of-way line in order to provide continuous slope from the right-of-way
line to the existing/proposed elevation of the abutting property.
         (b)   Such grading beyond the right-of-way shall generally maintain
the original directions of slope except where stormwater runoff designs dictate
changes.
         (c)   Approved plans, either preliminary or final, showing proposed
grading, shall be binding upon all future lot owners, unless altered by written
permission from the Board of Supervisors.
         (d)   In no case shall the required street grading extend onto an
adjoining property with a different landowner, unless the other adjoining
property owner gives a written agreement to the developer to accomplish such
work. A copy of such agreement shall be provided to the township.
      (4)   Trench excavation. All trenches excavated within the cartway of an
existing or proposed public street or right-of-way shall be mechanically
compacted with backfill acceptable to the Township Engineer. See also federal
occupational and safety regulations for trenching.
      (5)   Drainage. Drainage of streets shall comply with the township
stormwater management ordinance.
      (6)   Street construction standards. All street pavements shall comply
with the provisions of this section, except that PennDOT shall determine the
required cross-section for a state road.
         (a)   All materials, construction procedures and other specifications
shall be in conformance with the PennDOT Publication 408.
         (b)   A six inch minimum compacted depth stable sub-base shall be
provided, using PennDOT Type 2A aggregate or better, unless the township pre-
approves an alternative sub-base. The sub-grade shall be properly rolled and
crowned.
            1.   The township may require a greater depth where necessary
considering the conditions of the sub-grade. Materials that are unsuitable, wet
soils and soils subject to frost-heave shall be removed and replaced, drained
or otherwise stabilized to handle anticipated loads.
            2.   The township may require field and/or laboratory testing of
the sub-grade, particularly if on-site shale is proposed to be used.
            3.   The township may require compaction tests, with the township’s
costs reimbursed by the developer.
         (c)   A four inch minimum compacted depth 25 mm Superpave hot mix
asphalt base course shall be provided. This depth may be decreased to three
inches if the depth of the sub-base is increased to eight inches.
         (d)   For local streets, a one and one-half inch minimum depth nine
and one-half mm Superpave hot mix asphalt wearing course shall be provided.
Such depth shall be two inches for a collector street and three inches for an
arterial street.
         (e)   Where shoulders are required, PennDOT “Type 3” or better
shoulders shall be provided on each side of the travelway.
         (f)   All street construction materials shall be certified in writing
by the supplier as meeting PennDOT or township specifications as applicable.
The township may require that a developer provide testing results for paving
materials.
      (7)   Sub-drains. In poorly drained areas, suitable sub-grade drains or
parallel drains may be required by the township. Sub-grade drains shall conform
to PennDOT Publication 408 and shall be provided with a suitable outlet.
      (8)   Alleys and shared driveways. alleys and shared driveways serving
more than one lot shall be constructed with a five-inch minimum compacted depth
stone sub-base, two-inch minimum compacted depth bituminous base course, and a
one and one-half inch minimum compacted depth surface course. Shared driveways
shall only be allowed under the conditions of §
154.171(E). If a shared driveway is more than 250 feet long, it shall include
at least one nine-foot by 20-foot layby area for every 300 feet that allows one
car to wait while another car proceeds.
      (9)   Guide-rails.
         (a)   Streets shall be designed with geometric features that minimize
the need for guide-rails. Guide-rails shall only be installed where the result
of striking an object or leaving the roadway would be more severe than the
consequence of striking the guide-rail.
         (b)   Guide-rails shall be installed by the developer where necessary
to meet the guide-rail standards in the PennDOT publication entitled Guidelines
for Design of Local Roads and Streets or where otherwise required by the Board
of Supervisors. Guide-rails shall meet the construction standards of PennDOT
Publication 408 and PennDOT Standards for Roadway Construction.
      (10)   Street inspections: the entity constructing a street shall provide
the Township Engineer with a minimum five business days’ advance notice before
the start of initial construction of improvements and a minimum two business
days’ advance notice before the following street construction is accomplished
so that an inspection may be scheduled:
         (a)   Excavation of the road site;
         (b)   Preparation of the road sub-grade;
         (c)   Installation of the road sub-base;
         (d)   Compaction of the base course; and
         (e)   Installation of paving material.
   (L)   Required transportation improvements.
      (1)   Purpose. In recognition of §§ 503(2)(ii) and 503(3) of the
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10503(2)(ii) and (3), this
section is primarily intended to ensure that streets bordering a subdivision or
land development are coordinated and of such widths and grades and in such
locations as deemed necessary to accommodate prospective traffic and to
facilitate fire protection and to ensure that the access into and out of
subdivisions and land developments is sufficiently safe.
      (2)   Process. This division (L) shall be carried out through
determinations of the Board of Supervisors, after considering any
recommendations of the Planning Commission, the Township Engineer, the
applicant, the applicant’s professional representatives, any comments from
PennDOT that may be provided regarding a state road and any professional
traffic studies that may have been submitted.
      (3)   On-site/abutting traffic improvements. If, in the determination of
the Board of Supervisors, there is a reasonable relationship between the need
for an “on-site improvement” and the traffic created by a proposed subdivision
or land development, the applicant for such subdivision or land development
shall be required to complete the needed improvement or fund his or her fair
share of the cost of such transportation improvement and to dedicate sufficient
street right-of-way for needed improvements.
         (a)   Widening of abutting street. An applicant for any land
development or subdivision shall be required to widen, pave and improve any
abutting street and provide additional right-of-way as needed to meet current
township standards.
         (b)   Existing streets with insufficient right-of-way.
            1.   Where a public street exists with a right-of-way of less than
the width required by this section, then as part of any new subdivision or land
development, additional right-of-way shall be dedicated to bring the adjacent
street segment into conformance. For example, if a street has a 33-foot wide
right-of-way, and a 50-foot wide right-of-way is required, and a subdivision
only involves one side of the street, then the applicant shall dedicate eight
and one-half feet of additional right-of-way so that there is at least 25 feet
of right-of-way from the original centerline of the street.
            2.   Where a state road is involved, and PennDOT does not wish to
accept the additional right-of-way, then the right-of-way shall be offered to
the township. If the township does not wish to accept the additional right-of-
way on a state or township street, then the record plan shall state that the
right-of-way shall be reserved for dedication in the future if needed.
         (c)   Exceptions to requirements. Such improvements shall be required
unless the Board of Supervisors determine:
            1.   The subdivision or land development does not create any need
for the improvement;
            2.   A modification is granted under §
154.007; and
            3.   PennDOT specifically refuses in writing to allow such
improvement to a state road in the foreseeable future.
         (d)   PennDOT standards. Any improvement to a state road shall meet
all PennDOT standards.
         (e)   Fee in lieu of street improvements. Where this chapter would
require a widening of a street and/or the construction of curbing, and where
the applicant desires to not complete such improvements, and where the
applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Board of Supervisors that such
widening and/or curbing is not essential at that location at the present time,
then as a modification under this chapter, the Board of Supervisors may offer
the option of a fee in lieu of the widening or curbing.
            1.   The Township Engineer shall provide a review of the need for
and cost of the widening or curbing to the Board of Supervisors. The fee shall
be equal to 80% of the estimated costs of the street widening and/or curbing,
unless another fee is established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
            2.   If the Board approves a request of the applicant to pay the
fee in lieu of the street widening or curbing, then such fee shall only be used
for public street or curbing improvements within the township. Such funds do
not necessarily need to be used on the street where the requirement was
modified.
            3.   Such funds do not need to be kept in a separate bank account
and are not escrow accounts, but should be identified as part of a road
improvement account.
            4.   A waiver may be approved in any case, but such fee shall only
apply for a land development or a major subdivision.
      (4)   Types of required traffic improvements.
         (a)   The following shall be the definition of ON-SITE IMPROVEMENT,
(unless this definition is amended by state law): all street improvements
constructed on the applicant’s property, or the improvements constructed on the
property abutting the applicant’s property necessary for the ingress or egress
to the applicant’s property.
         (b)   On-site improvements may include, but are not limited to, a new
or upgraded traffic signal, land dedication to improve an abutting
intersection, realignment of an abutting curve in a road or the widening of the
abutting cartway and right-of-way.
      (5)   Funding. In place of completing a required street improvement as a
condition of final approval, an applicant may enter into a legally binding
development agreement with the township for the applicant to fund the
improvement, or his or her fair share of such improvement, as determined by the
Board of Supervisors.
      (6)   Staging. Any completion or funding of a required improvement may
occur in stages in relationship to the stages of the development, if so stated
in a legally binding development agreement and/or as a condition of final plan
approval.
   (M)   Traffic impact studies.
      (1)   Purposes. To enable the township to assess the impact of a proposed
development on the transportation system. To ensure that proposed developments
do not adversely affect the transportation network. To identify any traffic
problems associated with access from the site to the existing transportation
network. To delineate solutions to potential problems and propose improvements
to be incorporated into the proposed development.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   A traffic impact study shall be required for any subdivision or
land development that at build-out after completion of all phases is projected
to generate 250 or more average daily trip ends. TRIP ENDS shall mean the total
number of trips both entering and exiting the proposed development. These
projected trip ends shall be based on the latest edition of the publication
titled Trip Generation, published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers,
or upon traffic studies conducted within the last five years at comparable
developments that are acceptable to the Township Engineer. The ITE land use
codes shall be stated.
         (b)   If a development is proposed to be submitted in phases, the
initial traffic study shall consider a reasonable estimate of the likely
development in later phases, in addition to the current phase.
         (c)   The boundaries of the study area to be analyzed shall include
those existing and proposed streets and intersections which may be affected by
the proposed subdivision or land development. If there is any dispute as to
whether existing and proposed streets and intersections may be affected or not,
the final discretion shall rest with the Township Engineer or designated
Traffic Engineer.
         (d)   In lieu of submitting a traffic impact study, under the
provisions of §
154.007, the Board of Supervisors may approve a modification to accept a fee
from an applicant to be put towards the cost of a larger more comprehensive
traffic study or to accept a developer making an improvement to a street that
otherwise would not be required by the township or PennDOT. For a larger
traffic study, the township shall have the authority to select the consultant
or forward the funding to the county or PennDOT to conduct a study.
         (e)   Prior to preparing a traffic impact study, the applicant is
requested to meet with the Township Engineer and township staff, with officials
of PennDOT and Lehigh Valley Planning Commission invited.
      (3)   Traffic impact study contents.
         (a)   Site description. This section shall include the location,
proposed land uses, acreage, construction staging and completion date of the
proposed land development. Types of dwelling units and number of bedrooms shall
be included for residential developments, and gross and usable floor area for
nonresidential developments. A brief description of surrounding land uses and
other proposed land developments within the study area shall be provided. A
study area map should also be included.
         (b)   Transportation facilities description.
            1.   The study shall describe the proposed internal transportation
system, including vehicular, bicycle, bus and pedestrian circulation, all
internal roadway widths and rights-of-way, parking conditions, traffic
channelizations and any traffic controls within the site. If the site will be
served by public transit, the study shall describe any benches, shelter or
transit signs that will be provided.
            2.   The study shall describe location and design of proposed
access, including sight distance limitations and distance from adjacent
driveways and intersections.
            3.   The report shall describe the external roadway system within
the study area. Major intersections in the study area shall be identified and
mapped. Any proposal for bus or van service shall be described. Pedestrian and
bicycle facilities on abutting properties shall also be documented. All
proposed or approved roadway improvements within the study area shall be noted.
            4.   The report shall list the proposed timing of maj or road
improvements, including the Lehigh Area Transportation Improvement Program.
         (c)   Existing traffic conditions.
            1.   Existing traffic conditions shall be documented for all
streets and intersections in the study area. Traffic volumes shall be recorded
for existing average daily traffic, existing peak hour traffic and for traffic
during the development’s peak hour. Complete traffic counts at all
intersections in the study area shall be conducted, encompassing the peak hours
of the development and roadway. A volume capacity analysis using the procedures
of the current Highway Capacity Manual and based upon existing volumes shall be
performed during the peak hour(s) of the development for the peak hour(s) of
all roadways and major intersections in the study area. Levels of service shall
be determined for each location.
            2.   The study shall include information on traffic crashes in the
study area for the previous five years, if such information is available from
PennDOT or the township.
         (d)   Traffic impact of the development. Estimation of vehicular trips
to result from the proposal shall be completed for the peak hour(s) of both the
street system and the development. Acceptable source(s) and methodology shall
be followed. These generated volumes shall be distributed to the study area and
assigned to the existing streets and intersections throughout the study area.
Documentation of all assumptions used in the distribution and assignment phase
shall be provided. Traffic volumes shall be assigned to all access points.
Safety issues for any pedestrian crossings shall be described. Any
characteristics of the site that will cause trip generation rates that vary
from the ITE Manual shall be noted.
         (e)   Analysis of traffic impact. The total future traffic demand
based on full occupancy of the proposed subdivision or land development shall
be calculated for the existing and proposed streets and intersections. This
demand shall consist of the combination of the existing traffic expanded to the
completion year through the use of an accepted background growth rate, the
development-generated traffic, and the traffic generated by other proposed
developments in the study area. To assist in determining the background growth
rate, the annual PennDOT traffic report shall be considered. A volume/capacity
analysis shall also be conducted using the total future demand and the future
roadway capacity. This analysis shall be performed using the peak hour(s) for
all streets and major intersections in the study area. The Township Engineer
may also require this analysis to be conducted for the peak hour(s) of the
development. Volume/capacity calculations shall be completed for all movements
at major intersections. Levels of service for all streets and intersections
shall be listed.
            1.   The study shall consider the year when the development will be
complete, as well as a time period afterward.
            2.   The study shall describe the method that is used to allocate
the direction of trips.
            3.   As applicable, the study shall analyze traffic signal
warrants, traffic signal optimization, turn lane analysis and queue analysis.
         (f)   Conclusions and recommended improvements.
            1.   Any movements on streets and intersections within the study
area showing a Level of Service D or worse, based on the latest edition of the
Highway Capacity Manual, shall be considered deficient. Specific
recommendations for the elimination of these problems shall be listed.
Unsignalized intersections shall be evaluated for a signal warrant. Highway
capacity evaluations shall consider not only the overall intersection level of
service, but also each approach and movement to identify any substandard values
which need to be improved.
            2.   All locations where the level of service for the completion
year of the development is deficient without the proposed development, the
study shall determine improvements which would provide a level of service and
delay no worse than conditions without the subject development. These
improvements may include street and intersection design and improvements,
traffic signal installation and operation, traffic signal timing and other
improvements. The study shall also provide an analysis to determine
improvements which would eliminate all deficient levels of service.
            3.   Actions to facilitate use of bus or van service and carpooling
should be included, if applicable.
            4.   The listing of recommended improvements for both streets and
transit shall include, for each improvement, the party responsible for the
improvement, a preliminary cost estimate and funding of the improvement, and
the phase of development during which the improvement is proposed to be
completed. Any roadway improvement which requires increased right-of-way shall
be identified. The study should estimate the applicant’s fair share of the
costs of the needed improvements.
            5.   The traffic impact study may be used as a basis for a township
requirement under division (L) above or another section of this chapter.
            6.   Improvement plans shall not be submitted to the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation (PennDOT) before they are submitted to the
township. Approval of a site access plan by PennDOT does not guarantee approval
by the township.
         (g)   Preparation and review. The preparer of the traffic impact study
shall be a professional engineer or transportation planner. The developer shall
reimburse the township for reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the
Township Engineer or Traffic Engineer for the review of the developer’s traffic
impact study and plans.
         (h)   Data sources and methodology. Data sources and methodology shall
be described in the report.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.164 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Maximum length. Residential blocks shall not exceed 2,000 feet in
length in subdivisions using an average lot size of one acre or larger and
shall not exceed 1,500 feet in length in subdivisions having an average lot
size less than one acre. Where this distance would be exceeded, the township
may require the construction of a cross-street, where topographically feasible.
      (1)   Pedestrian crossings. The Board of Supervisors may require that a
pedestrian access easement be provided to provide pedestrian access where
street connections are not available to serve the same purpose. The township
may require a marked crosswalk to be created.
      (2)   Future street. Blocks shall be considered to be separated by the
reservation as part of an approved subdivision plan of a 50-foot minimum right-
of-way reserved for a future cross-street, such as a street is intended to
serve future interior lots. Such future street is not required to be
constructed until such time as the lots fronting on it are subdivided. Such
right-of-way shall be retained in the same ownership as the abutting interior
lot(s) until a street may be developed. Potential future street extensions
shall be shown on the plan.
   (B)   Block width. Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers
of lots, except where access is limited by virtue of an adjoining arterial
street or by virtue of topographic limitations, unless permitted by the Board
of Supervisors.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.165 LOTS; FLAG LOTS.
   (A)   Zoning. All lots shall conform to all requirements of the township
zoning ordinance, as were in effect at the time such subdivision plan was duly
submitted.
   (B)   Street frontage. Section
154.163(A)(2) shall apply.
   (C)   Average depth-to-width ratio. The average depth-to-width ratio of a
lot shall generally not be greater than three to one (3:1), unless otherwise
permitted by the Board of Supervisors to accommodate an unusual configuration
of the site.
   (D)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall abut and be approximately at
right angles to straight streets and on radial lines to curved streets. Pointed
or very irregularly shaped lots shall be avoided.
   (E)   (1)   Lots abutting two streets on two non-contiguous sides. Lots
abutting two streets on two non-contiguous sides shall ordinarily not be
created except as needed to avoid direct vehicular access onto an arterial or
collector street by individual driveways.
      (2)   Rear yard buffers along collector or arterial streets.
         (a)   Any residential lot of less than two acres with a rear yard
directly abutting a collector or arterial street shall along such rear yard
include a ten-foot wide planting strip along the back of the lot, in addition
to the minium yard requirement, with access across this strip clearly
prohibited on notes on any approved plan.
         (b)   In addition to any street trees required by §
154.178, this planting strip shall include evergreen plantings meeting the
buffer yard requirements of the zoning ordinance or alternative landscaping
approved by the township. American Arborvitae and similar weak-stem plants
shall not be used.
         (c)   Any fencing in the rear of such lots shall be placed on the
inside of such plantings. Such plantings shall be placed so that they do
obstruct safe sight distance.
      (3)   Vehicle access. See §
154.163(A)(2)(b).
   (F)   Flag lots. Flag lots are lots that do not meet the required minimum
lot width at the minimum building setback line, and which have an elongated and
more narrow extension connecting the bulk of the lot area with a street. A flag
lot shall only be approved where the applicant proves that a flag lot is
necessary to minimize the amount of disturbance of natural features or prime
agricultural land, and shall not be used to increase the number of dwelling
units or lots that would otherwise be allowed on a tract. A flag lot shall need
specific approval as such by the Board of Supervisors, after providing the
Township Engineer and Planning Commission with an opportunity for comment.
      (1)   A maximum of one flag lot shall be allowed for each three proposed
new lots in a subdivision. The township may require that a flag lot include a
prohibition against future subdivision.
      (2)   Only one tier of flag lots shall be allowed.
      (3)   The flag lot shall have a driveway within the same lot, which shall
connect to a public street.
      (4)   A flag lot shall only be allowed for one of the following:
         (a)   A single-family detached dwelling lot with a minimum lot area of
one acre, unless a larger lot is required by the applicable zoning district; or
         (b)   A lot that is only occupied by a well, sewage pumping station,
stormwater detention basin or similar utility and which is deed restricted
against further development.
      (5)   The minimum lot width shall be met at the proposed front yard
principal building setback line, which shall not be more than 250 feet from a
public street.
      (6)   The driveway shall be suitable for access by emergency vehicles.
See §
154.163(A)(4).
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.166 RECREATION AREAS AND FEES.
   (A)   Purposes. To provide adequate open spaces, recreational lands and
recreational facilities to serve new inhabitants/occupants of new developments,
for both active and passive recreation. To recognize and work to carry out the
park, recreation and open space plan for the township, which is adopted as
recreation plan for the township or by a successor document that may be adopted
as the recreation plan for the township.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   This section shall apply to any subdivision or land development for
which a preliminary plan or a combined preliminary/final plan is submitted
after the enactment date of this amendment.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to plans that the township determines
only involve adjustments or corrections to an approved preliminary plan or a
preliminary plan that was actively before the township for consideration as of
the date of the adoption of this section, provided the adjustments do not
increase the number of proposed dwelling units.
   (C)   Limitations on use of fees.
      (1)   Any fees collected under this section shall be placed within the
Township Recreation Escrow Fund, or its successor account.
      (2)   To make sure that the lands and facilities are accessible to the
inhabitants of the developments that paid fees towards their cost, such fees
should only be used within a five-mile radius of the boundaries of the
subdivision or land development that paid the fees, unless the fees are used
within a recreation area open to the public that the township intends to serve
the entire township.
      (3)   Such fees shall only be used for the following: acquisition of
public open space/recreation land and related debt payments, development of
public recreational facilities, landscaping of public open space and necessary
engineering and design work.
   (D)   Land to be preserved. Any subdivision or land development regulated
under this section shall be required to preserve the specified amount of
recreation land, unless the Board of Supervisors and the applicant mutually
agree that recreation fees shall be required in-lieu of land.
      (1)   As a general non-binding guideline, it is the intent of this
section that smaller developments (such as ten or fewer dwelling units) that do
not include land that is adjacent to existing publicly-owned land shall be
required to pay a recreation fee in lieu of dedicating land. However, if the
applicant refuses to pay such fees, then recreation land shall be required to
be preserved.
      (2)   The land and fee requirements of this section shall be based upon
the number of new dwelling units that would be allowed on the lots of a
subdivision or land development after approval.
      (3)   Prime recreation land: for the purposes of this section, the term
PRIME RECREATION LAND shall mean land proposed to be established as recreation
land that would meet all of the following standards:
         (a)   Less than 6% slope;
         (b)   Not a “wetland” under federal and/or state regulations;
         (c)   Be part of a contiguous tract of at least two acres (which may
include existing adjacent recreation land); and
         (d)   Not be within the 100-year floodplain as defined by official
floodplain maps of the township.
      (4)   Amount of recreation land: if a subdivision or land development is
required to include recreation land, the following amounts for each permitted
new dwelling unit shall apply:
 
                                                         Minimum Required
Percentage of the Total Required Recreation Land That    Recreation Land per
Would Meet the Definition of “Prime Recreation Land” Permitted Dwelling
                                                         Unit
0% to 25.0%                                              5,000 square feet
25.1% to 99.9%                                           2,500 square feet
100%                                                     1,250 square feet
 
   (E)   Fees. If the Board of Supervisors determines that a proposed
subdivision or land development is required to pay fees-in-lieu of dedicating
recreation land, this fee shall be $3,150 for each new dwelling unit, unless
such fee is updated by future action by the Board of Supervisors.
   (F)   Decision on land versus fees. The Board of Supervisors shall determine
whether a land dedication would be in the public interest, or whether the
payment of fees is required. This initial determination should, but is not
required to, be made at the time of sketch plan review. The township should, at
a minimum, consider the following in this decision:
      (1)   Whether the land in that location would serve a valid public
purpose;
      (2)   Whether there is potential to make a desirable addition to an
existing public or school district recreation area or to create a greenway
along a creek;
      (3)   Whether the proposed land would meet the objectives and
requirements of this section and any relevant policies of the Comprehensive
Plan and any recreation or open space plan;
      (4)   Whether the area surrounding the proposed development has
sufficient existing recreation and open space land, and whether it is possible
for pedestrians and bicyclists to reach those lands; and
      (5)   Any recommendations that may be received from the Planning
Commission, the Township Engineer, the local school board or school district
staff and the Township Parks and Recreation Board.
    (G)   Recreation land to be preserved.
      (1)   Suitability. Recreation land shall be suitable for its intended
purpose, in the determination of the Board of Supervisors. The applicant shall
state in writing what improvements, if any, he or she will commit to make to
the land to make it suitable for its intended purpose, such as grading,
landscaping or development of trails. Such land shall be free of construction
debris at the time of dedication. Proposed recreation land shall be suitable to
meet the needs of the residents of the development.
      (2)   Ownership. Required recreation land shall be dedicated to the
township, unless the Board of Supervisors agree to accept a dedication to any
of the following: the school district, the county, a state agency charged with
maintaining recreation land, a similar governmental agency, an incorporated
property owners association (such as a homeowner or condominium association) or
an established environmental organization acceptable to the Board of
Supervisors. In the case of a rental development, the township may permit the
recreation land to be retained by the owner of the adjacent principal
buildings.
         (a)   Property owners association. If recreation land is to be owned
by a property owners association, the developer shall be required to establish
such association in a form that requires all property owners within the
development to annually contribute to the maintenance of the recreation land.
            1.   Any property owners association agreements regarding required
recreation land shall be subject to acceptance by the Board of Supervisors,
based upon review by the Township Solicitor.
            2.   Prior to the sale of any dwelling unit or lot, all deeds shall
require each property owner to pay fees on a regular basis for the maintenance
and other expenses of owning such land. The property owners shall be
incorporated with covenants and bylaws providing for the filing of assessments.
After providing notice to affected owners, the township shall have the
authority to establish municipal liens upon all properties in the association
to fund maintenance of the land and township legal costs if the property owners
association does not fulfill its responsibilities.
            3.   An orderly process shall be established for the transfer of
the land to the association. The dedication of maintenance responsibilities by
a developer to a property owners association shall not occur until such
association is incorporated and able to maintain such land.
            4.   The property owners association shall be established in full
compliance with applicable state law, including the Uniform Planned Community
Act, 68 Pa.C.S. §§ 5101 et seq.
         (b)   Transfer to another entity. If the approved plan states that
ownership of and/or responsibilities to maintain the recreation land are given
to a particular entity, then any transfer of ownership or responsibilities to
another entity shall require pre-approval by the Board of Supervisors. Where
land is to be owned by a conservation organization, a process shall be
established for the land to transfer to a different organization if the first
organization is not able to fulfill its obligations.
         (c)   Board of Supervisors authority. The Board of Supervisors shall
have the authority to refuse to accept an offer of dedication of recreation
land to the township, and/or to determine that an offer does not meet township
requirements.
      (3)   Easements. Any required recreation land dedication shall include a
conservation easement to permanently prevent its development for buildings,
except buildings for approved types of noncommercial recreation or to support
maintenance of the land. Such conservation easements shall, at a minimum, be
enforceable by the Board of Supervisors. The Supervisors may require that the
easements also authorize their enforcement by a suitable third party.
      (4)   Priorities. Priority shall be given to dedication of land that
would be suitable for:
            1.   Additions to existing public schools and public parks;
            2.   Preservation of woods, steep slopes or other important natural
features or land along a creek; or
            3.   For centralized active recreation.
      (5)   Suitability. Land that is not suitable for active or passive
recreation shall not be permitted to meet the requirements of this section. Any
land area used to meet the requirements of this section shall meet the
definition of recreation land. Portions intended for active recreation shall be
well-drained, of less than 6% average slope and not require filling in of a
wetland for use.
      (6)   Access and contiguousness. Recreation land within a subdivision or
land development shall be contiguous, except as may be specifically exempted by
the Board of Supervisors, if necessary considering the unique features of the
site, and shall have a minimum of 20 feet of road frontage at a location that
allows access for maintenance and by pedestrians.
      (7)   Other ordinances. Any required land dedication or fees under this
section shall be in addition to any land dedication or improvement requirements
of any other township ordinance.
      (8)   Residual lands. If only a portion of a larger tract of land is
currently proposed to be subdivided, or the applicant owns one or more adjacent
tracts that are not currently proposed to be subdivided, the applicant shall
provide a sketch of a possible future land dedication on these adjacent lands.
The intent is to coordinate current plans with any future development, even in
the long-term.
      (9)   Coordination with future adjacent dedication. The Board of
Supervisors may require that a required land dedication within a property
currently being subdivided be placed along an edge of the property so that it
may, in the future, be combined with a recreation land/open space dedication on
the edge of an adjoining property when that adjoining property is subdivided or
developed.
   (H)   Combination of land and fees.
      (1)   Upon mutual agreement of the Board of Supervisors and the
applicant, the township may accept a combination of recreation land and fees-
in-lieu of land to meet the requirements of this section for a subdivision or
land development. This combination shall be based upon the recreation land
requirement applying for a certain number of dwelling units and the fee-in-lieu
of land requirement applying for the remaining development.
      (2)   For example, if a development included 25 dwelling units,
recreation land could be required for 15 dwelling units and fees could be
required for ten dwelling units.
   (I)   Timing of residential fees. Fees required by this section for all of
the dwelling units shall be paid prior to the recording of the final plan,
except as follows.
      (1)   If the required fee would be greater than $4,000, and the applicant
and the township mutually agree to provisions in a binding development
agreement to require the payment of all applicable recreation fees prior to the
issuance of any building permits within each clearly defined phase or sub-phase
of the development, then fees are not required to be paid prior to recording of
the final plan but may instead be paid within the requirements of that
development agreement.
      (2)   If the applicant agrees to pay such fees in installments, then all
such fees shall not be considered to be “paid” for the purposes of any
applicable time limitations for utilization under the Municipalities Planning
Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. until all such fees are paid in full,
including all installments and phases.
   (J)   Facilities in place of land or fees.
      (1)   An applicant may submit a written request for a modification of the
requirements of this section by offering to construct substantial permanent
recreation facilities within the proposed subdivision or land development or on
public park land. Such modification shall only be approved if the applicant
clearly proves to the satisfaction of the Board of Supervisors that the
facilities will serve a valid public purpose, will be designed following modern
standards in a durable manner and will have a higher market value than the land
or fees that would otherwise be required.
      (2)   A modification of these requirements may also be approved by the
Board of Supervisors if the applicant donates or sells appropriate public
recreation land to the township or the school district. In such case, the
applicant shall provide a written appraisal from a qualified professional that
the market value of the donation or price reduction is greater than the value
of the fee or land requirement that is waived. In such case, the land shall be
determined to be suitable for public recreation by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 141, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 154.167 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND FLOODPLAIN.
   See the provisions of the township stormwater management and floodplain
regulations (see also Chapters 151 and 152).
   (A)   Landscaped screening of detention basins.
      (1)   A detention basin with a basin depth of greater than 20 inches
shall have landscaping that screens it from view of existing dwellings, a
residential zoning district or a public street, unless the basin would meet
either of the following conditions:
         (a)   It would have an average slope of less than four to one (4:1) on
the inside of the berm of the basin and both the inside and outside of the
basin would be planted in grass and intended to be mowed or planted in other
attractive vegetative ground cover; or
         (b)   It would be designed to closely resemble a natural pond and be a
scenic asset.
      (2)   Any required screening shall meet the landscaping standards of the
township zoning ordinance, unless the Board of Supervisors approve an alternate
landscaping arrangement that serves the same purposes. This landscaping shall
not be required along an area where natural vegetation will be maintained that
will completely fulfill this purpose.
      (3)   Thorny and prickly shrubs (that are also attractive) are encouraged
to be used around detention basins to discourage entry by children, if there
may be a hazard.
      (4)   Areas of stormwater basins that are visible from streets and
dwellings shall be attractively maintained.
      (5)   Recreation: when reasonable, efforts should be made to allow
suitable recreational uses of portions of detention areas. This might include
designing a detention basin with a low-flow channel so that only a portion
would be wet after a minor storm, and the remainder would be well-drained
during all except the most serious storms. These areas may be acceptable at the
discretion of the township as part of any township requirement to provide
recreation land.
   (B)   Stormwater easements.
      (1)   Where required: where a subdivision or development is traversed by
a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream that the Township Engineer
determines is subject to significant stormwater flows, there shall be provided
a drainage easement established along the following:
         (a)   The 100-year floodway, where that is defined; and
         (b)   Where a 100-year floodway is not defined, a width shall be used
that includes a minimum of 25 feet on each side of the top of the primary bank
of the waterway.
      (2)   The drainage easements required by division (B)(1) above are
intended to preserve the unimpeded flow of natural drainage and to provide for
future possible widening, deepening, relocating, improving or protecting of
such drainage facilities. The Township Engineer may require up to a one-half
foot freeboard and/or an additional ten feet building setback if deemed
necessary along newly constructed watercourses.
      (3)   If a major human-made drainage channel would pass within close
proximity to homes and possibly threaten the safety of persons, the Board of
Supervisors, based upon the advice of the Township Engineer, may require such
certain lengths of such channel to be placed within appropriate underground
pipes.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain all
stormwater easements on, over or through other properties that are needed to
carry out the proposed storm management plan.
      (5)   Areas where stormwater easements have or will be granted shall not
be obstructed during or after construction.
      (6)   See also the easement requirements in §
154.170, including provisions regarding maintenance and obstructions.
   (C)   Floodplain regulations. See the township floodplain regulations and
the relevant provisions of the State Construction Codes.
      (1)   Fill shall not be allowed within the 100-year floodplain if it
would cause any increase in flood levels.
      (2)   If fill is used within the 100-year floodplain, it shall meet the
following additional requirements:
         (a)   It shall extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond any proposed
building footprint;
         (b)   It shall consist of well-compacted materials to provide the
necessary resistance to erosion, scouring or settling; and
         (c)   It shall not have a finished slope greater than three to one (3:
1).
      (3)   The finished elevation of a proposed street shall be above the 100-
year flood level. The applicant shall provide profiles and elevations to show
that this requirement will be met.
      (4)   Any structure within the 100-year floodplain shall include openings
as needed to allow flood flows to be discharged without increasing flood
heights.
      (5)   Sanitary sewage systems shall be floodproofed up to the 100-year
flood level.
      (6)   No on-lot septic system shall be located within the 100-year
floodplain.
      (7)   All water supply facilities shall be floodproofed up to the 100-
year flood level and shall be designed to minimize infiltration of floodwaters
into the water supply.
   (D)   Fencing. The Board of Supervisors may require secure fencing to be
placed around a stormwater basin.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.168 SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   All subdivisions and land developments shall be served with an
approved and adequate sewage disposal system (either on-lot or public) that
will meet state and township regulations.
      (2)   Public sewage connections.
         (a)   Any principal building or use within a subdivision or land
development that generates wastewater and that in the determination of the
Board of Supervisors, based upon the advice of any applicable municipal
authority and the Township Engineer, could reasonably connect into a public
sewage system may be required by the township to connect into that system.
         (b)   The applicant shall be responsible to pay such reasonable
capital expenses that are necessary for such connection.
   (B)   Central sewage service.
      (1)   If a municipality or a municipal authority is to provide the
central sewage service, such agency shall have the authority to approve or
reject the proposed sewage collection system for just cause.
      (2)   Non-public sewage service: if non-public central sewage service is
proposed, the Board of Supervisors shall have the authority to permit or not
permit such service to meet the sewage requirements of this section based upon:
         (a)   Whether public sewage service is expected to be available within
five years of the date of preliminary plan approval;
         (b)   Whether the proposed system would be consistent with the
township’s official sewage facilities plan; and
         (c)   Whether the system would include an appropriate permanent system
for professional operation and maintenance.
   (C)   On-lot sewage disposal system.
      (1)   If connection to a public sewage system is not required at the time
of occupancy, and if non-public central sewage system is not approved by the
township under the township sewage facilities plan, then each lot shall be
required to be served by an on-lot sewage disposal system that will meet all
applicable state regulations. Each such proposed location shall be tested and
approved by Township Sewage Enforcement Officer, prior to approval of the final
plan. See the requirements of DEP for a planning module.
      (2)   Portable chemical toilets allowed as per DEP regulation or other
approved privies shall not be used as a primary method of sewage service for a
subdivision or land development that operates more than ten days in any
calendar year, other than publicly-owned outdoor recreation uses and
construction sites.
      (3)   Each new lot using on-lot septic service shall include a tested
alternate septic system location meeting all DEP regulations, which shall be
kept available for use if needed.
      (4)   The applicant shall submit results or a summary of the tests of
required on-lot septic tests and shall show approved test locations on the
preliminary plans in accordance with DEP planning module requirements.
   (D)   Laterals. Each lot with central sewage service shall be served by a
separate sewage lateral.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.169 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Generally. All subdivisions and land developments shall be served
with an adequate on-lot or central water supply system that will meet DEP and
township requirements.
      (2)   Required connections to central water systems.
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors, after requesting any recommendations
of the Planning Commission, the Township Engineer and the appropriate water
supplier, may require all lots and principal uses within a subdivision or land
development to be connected to an existing public or township-approved central
water system where the Board of Supervisors determines that such connection
would be feasible, cost-effective and reasonable, considering the distances
that the lines would need to be extended and the average cost per dwelling or
lot.
         (b)   1.   If an applicant does not wish to extend central water
service, then the township may require the applicant to provide a comparison of
the estimated total costs of extending the central water service versus the
total costs of developing wells. Such cost comparison shall be prepared by a
professional and be provided to the water supplier and the Township Engineer
for review. This analysis is intended to assist the township in determining
whether a water extension would be reasonable.
            2.   The township shall also have the authority to require a
subdivision or land development to include an extension of central water
service if such service is needed to resolve a significant public health or
safety hazard, or where such extension is required by another ordinance or
utility agreement.
      (3)   Dry water lines.
         (a)   1.   The Board of Supervisors, after requesting any
recommendations of the Planning Commission, the Township Engineer and the
appropriate water supplier, may require that a subdivision or land development
include the installation of “dry” water lines if the Board of Supervisors
determine that such requirement would be reasonable and that such development
is likely to be able to be served by an extension of an existing Township-
approved central water system within ten years.
            2.   The township is not responsible to guarantee that such water
connection will occur or be possible within the ten-year period.
         (b)   Such lines shall be required to meet the construction standards
of the water supplier to which the lines are intended to be connected.
         (c)   A developer in such case may only be required to construct:
            1.   Such mains and laterals that would be needed to be located
within the right-of-way of a newly constructed or reconstructed street(s); and
            2.   Such other mains that would be needed within the boundaries of
the subdivision or land development.
      (4)   Private water system.
         (a)   The Board of Supervisors, based upon recommendations of the
Township Engineer, may require or permit the development of a new private
central water system if such system can reasonably be expected to be connected
into an extension of an existing central water supplier within ten years.
         (b)   Such system in that case shall be constructed following official
standards of the water supplier to which it is intended to be connected.
         (c)   In such case, the approved plan should include a specific
provision offering dedication of such system to the central water supplier in
the future, without any purchase cost by such central water supplier.
   (B)   Central water supply system.
      (1)   Water supplier approval. Proposed extensions of central water
systems shall meet all applicable procedures, reviews and requirements of any
appropriate municipal authority or water company. Such extension shall be
approved by such agency prior to final plan approval, although specific
detailed service agreements are not required to be signed until prior to
recording.
      (2)   Non-public supplier. Any new central water system that is not owned
by a public authority or municipality shall be found to be acceptable in
capacity, pressure, design and construction by the Board of Supervisors, based
upon review of the Township Engineer. The Board of Supervisors may deny
permission for a subdivision or land development to be served by a non-public
central water system if such system cannot guarantee sufficient water pressure
and capacity and would not include a suitable process for long-term operation
and maintenance. The applicant may be required by the Township to establish a
test well prior to recording of any lots to show that adequate water will be
available and a back-up well.
   (C)   On-lot water system (wells).
      (1)   Well locations. When a subdivision or land development is not
required to connect to a central water system, acceptable locations for wells
shall be shown on plans and each well shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet
from any on-lot septic system.
      (2)   Setback. Wells should be located no closer than 25 feet from any
future street right-of-way. Wells should also be located to meet minimum
requirements of the Federal Housing Administration, in case a FHA mortgage may
be sought.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. All subdivisions and land developments that will be
served by central water service shall provide fire hydrants as needed with
appropriate water pressure so that all nonresidential principal buildings and
all dwelling units are within 500 feet of an active fire hydrant. Such
distances shall be measured along lengths that are accessible to firefighters.
      (1)   The fire hydrant shall have connections compatible with those used
by the township fire companies.
      (2)   The township may require that the applicant prove that fire flows
will be not be less than 500 gallons per minute in single-family detached
residential areas and 1,000 gallons per minute in other developed areas, at 20
pounds per square inch residual pressure.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.170 OTHER UTILITIES; UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utilities. All electric power service lines (as opposed to
distribution lines) and all telephone, cable television (where available) and
natural gas service lines within a new subdivision or land development shall be
placed underground.
   (B)   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Generally. Stormwater drainage, sanitary sewage, central water,
emergency access and other types of easements shall be provided as determined
to be needed by the township and as indicated on the plans.
      (2)   Locations. All lots shall include a stormwater drainage and utility
easement around the perimeter of each lot, including adjacent to the street
right-of-way. However, such easements shall not be required where buildings are
to be attached at a lot line.
      (3)   Width. The standard minimum width of a stormwater drainage or
underground utility easement shall be 15 feet, which may be reduced to ten feet
for each lot if a ten-foot minimum easement exists on the abutting side of the
abutting lot.
      (4)   Drainage easements. See also drainage easement provisions in §
154.167.
      (5)   Additional width of easements. Additional width of easements shall
be provided if required by the utility provider or the Board of Supervisors,
based upon advice of the Township Engineer. The easement widths along side lot
lines may be reduced if the zoning ordinance allows a principal building
setback that is more narrow than the width of the easement that would otherwise
be required.
      (6)   Separation. Minimum separation distances between utility lines
shall be as required by the applicable utility or as deemed necessary by the
Township Engineer.
      (7)   Utilities. If any activity is proposed within the right-of-way of
an underground pipeline or utility, the applicant shall provide written
evidence from the operator of such pipeline or utility that such activity is
acceptable under their safety standards and the terms of that right-of-way.
      (8)   Maintenance and obstructions. The owner of the lot shall maintain
an easement in such a condition that does not inhibit its intended purpose(s).
Fill or structures shall not be placed in an easement in a way that inhibits
its intended purpose(s). Specifically, structures or grading that could alter
or obstruct stormwater flows in violation of the approved final plan shall be
prohibited within stormwater easements.
      (9)   Township entry. The township at its option shall have the right to
enter a stormwater easement or any municipal easement to maintain it or improve
it for its intended purpose(s), although the township does not accept the
responsibility to complete such work.
      (10)   Note. The following note or a township-approved equivalent may be
required to be placed on the record plan, unless another method of maintenance
is specifically approved by the township. The property owner shall have the
responsibility for the perpetual maintenance of the permanent stormwater
management facilities. No changes shall be made to the stormwater management
facilities or finish grading without prior written approval from the township.
A blanket easement is hereby granted giving the township the right, but not the
obligation, to enter the property to perform any required maintenance which has
not been properly performed in a timely manner. The property owner shall be
responsible for the cost of any maintenance which is performed by the township.
The township shall lien the property for said costs until the township has been
reimbursed in full.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.171 ACCESS DRIVES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Construction standards. See §
154.163.
   (B)   Access; state roads.
      (1)   A state highway occupancy permit is required for all access onto or
work within the right-of-way of a state road. A township driveway permit shall
be obtained before any vehicle access is allowed from a state road or township-
owned street.
      (2)   If the township becomes aware that a state highway occupancy permit
is needed, and one has not been issued, the township may delay the issuance of
a construction permit and/or occupancy permit until such time as such state
permit is issued.
   (C)   Slope and emergency access.
      (1)   The maximum slope of an access drive or driveway shall be 14%,
except the first 20 feet adjacent to a cartway of a street shall have a maximum
slope of 4%.
      (2)   See §
154.163(A)(4).
   (D)   Drainage. The developer shall make adequate provisions to maintain
uninterrupted parallel drainage along a street where intersected by an access
drive or driveway. Access drives and aisles within parking lots shall be graded
and drained to keep the primary travel lane free of stormwater.
   (E)   Shared driveways. Unless otherwise approved, a driveway shall serve a
maximum of one residential lot. A driveway serving more than one residential
lot shall only be approved if the applicant proves to the Board of Supervisors
that it is needed because of a sight distance concern, to provide proper access
management along a road, or to minimize disturbance of natural features or
agricultural areas.
   (F)   Turnarounds. For lots abutting collector streets, driveways shall be
designed with a location on the lot to turn a vehicle around, so as not to
require a vehicle to back out onto that collector or arterial street.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.172 OFF-STREET PARKING CONNECTIONS; INTERCONNECTED PARKING LOTS.
   The Board of Supervisors may require that the following methods be used
adjacent to a collector or arterial street where two lots that are each
intended for current or future business uses will be contiguous to each other.
   (A)   When two contiguous business uses or lots are in common ownership at
the time of subdivision or land development application, the parking lots shall
include an interconnection to allow motorists and pedestrians to travel from
one business to another business without needing to re-enter a public street.
   (B)   (1)   Where two contiguous lots involving current or future businesses
are not in common ownership, the applicant for a subdivision or land
development shall seek permission from the abutting lot owner to allow a
vehicle interconnection between the parking lots. Unless the abutting property
owner refuses to permit the interconnection, the subdivision or land
development shall include the construction of a vehicle and pedestrian
interconnection between the parking areas.
      (2)   If the abutting property owner refuses to permit the
interconnection or the interconnection is currently not feasible, the Board of
Supervisors may require that the subdivision or land development include an
easement allowing a future interconnection and/or construct the interconnection
as a “stub” up to the applicant’s property line.
   (C)   Where an interconnection is required or planned between two uses or
lots, the subdivision or land development shall include a suitable cross-
easement that permits vehicles and pedestrians from one use or lot to have
access through the parking lot and driveway of the adjacent use or lot.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.173 CURBS.
   (A)   Curbs shall only be required where the Board of Supervisors determines
they are necessary. Such determination shall consider comments of the Township
Engineer and should consider whether the curbs are needed to continue existing
curbing along an existing street, whether they are needed for stormwater
management purposes, and/or whether they are needed for road edge
stabilization.
   (B)   If curbs are not provided, appropriate stabilized drainage channels
designed to meet the township stormwater management ordinance shall be required
along all streets, within the street right-of- way, or drainage easements.
   (C)   Required curbs shall meet the following specifications, unless other
specifications are pre- approved by the township:
      (1)   Only straight or slant concrete curbs shall be provided, unless a
modification is approved under §
154.007, such as for granite curbing. Such curbs shall meet construction
specifications of PennDOT Publication 408.
      (2)   Gutter design shall be subject to the approval of the Township
Engineer based upon standard engineering practices. The curb reveal shall be
between seven and eight inches.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.174 SIDEWALKS, PATHWAYS AND DRIVE APRONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Sidewalks built to township specifications shall be required where
the average residential density exceeds three dwelling units per acre or where
the Board of Supervisors determine they are necessary for safe pedestrian
movement, such as near a school.
      (2)   As a modification under §
154.007, an applicant may propose an alternate system of pathways, such as a
crushed stone or bituminous pathway, that serve the same purposes as sidewalks
and which guarantee public access, but which are not necessarily within a
street right-of-way, if approved by the Township Engineer.
   (B)   Pathway or bikeway.
      (1)   If deemed necessary for the convenient and safe circulation of
bicycles and pedestrians, the Board of Supervisors, upon the recommendation of
the Planning Commission, may require that a major subdivision or land
development include the construction of a pathway or bikeway.
      (2)   A bikeway/pathway shall have a minimum width of six feet and a
maximum width of 12 feet. It may be required to be placed within a street
right-of-way in place of a sidewalk, or may be placed elsewhere on a lot within
an easement or other right-of-way.
   (C)   Location and width of sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks, where required or provided, shall be located within the
street right-of-way and should be no closer than four feet from the curb line.
Any area between the sidewalk and curb shall be planted in an attractive
vegetative ground cover, such as grass. This strip shall only be paved at
driveway entrances.
      (2)   Any required sidewalks shall have a minimum width of:
         (a)   Five feet along arterial streets or along routes used to access
primary or secondary schools; and
         (b)   Four feet along collector or local streets in other locations.
   (D)   Construction.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall meet construction specifications in PennDOT
Publication 408.
      (2)   Bikeways/pathways shall be constructed of a one inch bituminous
surface course, a one and one-half inch bituminous binder course and six inches
of compacted gravel or crushed stone, unless an alternative standard is pre-
approved by the township. To the maximum extent feasible considering
topography, pathways should be accessible to persons in wheelchairs. Stop signs
should be posted along bikeways where they meet streets.
   (E)   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the adjacent landowner
to maintain, plow snow and remove ice off of and repair sidewalks.
   (F)   Wheelchair ramps. Ramps shall meet the requirements of the Americans
With Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and accompanying
federal regulations.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.175 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   Street lights or other township-approved lighting may be provided and
installed by the developer along streets within and abutting a proposed
subdivision or land development in the following situations:
      (1)   One or more lights may be required at or near an intersection of
two or more streets; and
      (2)   One or more lights may be required at other locations where the
Board of Supervisors deems them necessary to provide safe traffic or pedestrian
circulation, to illuminate curves in streets or to illuminate the more isolated
areas of a development.
   (B)   The developer shall coordinate with the electric utility regarding the
responsibilities between the developer and the utility, and shall reimburse the
utility for its reasonable costs for such work.
   (C)   Private lighting: on all private streets, parking areas and other
areas requiring lighting, the developer shall provide materials, installation,
energizing and power for all lighting systems necessary for security and public
safety. A system acceptable to the township shall be established for the
maintenance of such lights. The township may require that business and multi-
family parking lots and related walkways maintain a minimum 0.5 footcandles of
illumination during hours of use.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.176 STREET IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
   (A)   Any new street name signs that are needed shall be provided and
installed by the developer, or if the township volunteers to provide and
install such signs, the developer shall reimburse such costs.
   (B)   Street names are subject to the approval of the township. Names shall
continue the name of any street with the same or similar alignment.
   (C)   Names shall not duplicate or be closely similar to the name of another
street within the township, the same fire company or ambulance service district
or the same five digit zip code area. The street names shall be submitted for
acceptance by the U.S. postal service and county emergency communications to
avoid duplications.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.177 REGULATORY SIGNS.
   The developer shall install township-specified, or shall reimburse the
township for the costs of supplying and installing, needed traffic regulatory
signs and street name identification signs on public streets. The developer
shall be responsible to provide and install signs on private streets. All
traffic regulatory signs shall meet current standards of PennDOT.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.178 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Street trees.
      (1)   Within and abutting all land developments and major subdivisions,
along any existing or proposed street, or any access drive serving more than
one commercial, industrial or institutional principal use or any access drive
serving five or more dwelling units, street trees are required to be planted.
      (2)   However, street trees shall not be required:
         (a)   Along a single-family detached residential lot or agricultural
lot with a lot area of greater than three acres; or
         (b)   Where the township determines that existing healthy trees
proposed to be preserved will serve the same function.
      (3)   The Board of Supervisors may approve other species of trees than
those listed below if the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the
Supervisors that the trees would be sturdy, attractive and resistant to disease
and road salt.
      (4)   A tree required by this section shall be of the following species.
This list shall not regulate types of trees that are not required to be planted
by this chapter.
Acer rubrum - American Red Maple
Acer saccharum - Sugar Maple
Carpinus - Hornbeam
Celtis occidentalis - Common Hackberry
Fagus sylvatica - European Beech
Fraxinus americana - White Ash
Fraxinus Pennsylvania - Green Ash
Ginko biloba fastigiata - Maiden Hair Tree (male only)
Gleditsia triacanthos - Thornless Locust or Honey Locust
Liriodendron tulipifera - Tulip Poplar
Prunus sargentii - Sargent Cherry
Quercus - all varieties of Oak
Sophora japonica - Scholar Tree/Pagoda Tree
Tilia americana - American Linden
Tilia cordata - Little Leaf Linden
Tilia euchlora - Crimean Linden
Tilia petiolaris - Silver Linden
Ulmus - hybrids: Homestead or Sapporo Autumn Gold Elms
Ulmus parviflora - Chinese or Lacebark Elm, not including Siberian Elm
Zelkova serrata - Zelkova
 
      (5)   (a)   In certain cases where evergreen trees would provide a buffer
between a street and dwellings, or be more consistent with native vegetation,
then the township may permit the planting of evergreen trees instead of
deciduous trees. In such case, the trees are intended to be planted immediately
outside of the right-of-way. Such trees shall be of one of the following
species:
 
Ilex opaca - American Holly
Picea - all varieties of Spruce
Pinus - all varieties of Pine
Pseudotsuga taxifolia - Douglas Fir
 
         (b)   If more than ten trees are required to be planted, then no more
than 50% shall be of one species.
      (6)   Quality of trees.
         (a)   Trees shall be of symmetrical growth, free of insect pests and
disease and durable under the maintenance contemplated.
         (b)   Trees which have died or have become diseased or pest-ridden
within 18 months from the time of planting shall be replaced by the developer.
      (7)   Minimum sizes and standards: the trunk diameter (measured at a
height of four and one-half feet above the finished grade level) of deciduous
shade trees required by this chapter shall be a minimum of two and one-half
inches. The minimum height above the ground level at the time of planting of
evergreen trees required by this chapter shall be six feet.
      (8)   Planting and maintenance.
         (a)   Trees shall be planted in conformance with good landscaping
practices.
         (b)   Trees adjacent to or within parking areas shall be properly
protected from damage by vehicles by raised curbs, raised earth, protective
devices and/or sufficient setback.
         (c)   Required trees shall be properly maintained and shall not be
removed without being replaced by another tree that meets the requirements of
this section.
      (9)   Required number and spacing of street trees.
         (a)   Along streets and access drives where street trees are required,
an average of one street tree shall be required for every 50 feet of distance
along the street right-of-way line on each affected side of the street. Where a
right-of-way does not exist, an average of one street tree shall be required
for every 50 feet of length of cartway.
         (b)   Spacing: the trees required under this section shall be spaced
throughout the development along the street, but are not required to be planted
at exact intervals and may be clustered following an approved plan. Trees shall
be located so that they do not restrict sight distance at driveway and street
intersections.
      (10)   Location of street trees: the trunks of required street trees
shall be planted outside of the street right-of-way, but within the front yard
area unless an alternative location is specifically approved by the township or
required by PennDOT. Where trees are not allowed in a location because of a
sight distance issue, the trees shall be planted at other locations on the
tract.
      (11)   Other requirements: the street trees required under this section
shall be in addition to any trees required under other township regulations.
The planting of street trees shall follow good nursery practices, and may be
required to include staking. Trees shall be properly watered and fertilized.
   (B)   Buffer yards. See the requirements in the township zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.179 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments.
      (1)   Location. For a major subdivision, permanent reference monuments
shall be located at each intersection of rights-of-way of street(s) constructed
by the developer, at the beginning and ending of all street curves, and at
exterior corners of the subdivision or land development. For a minor
subdivision, two permanent monuments shall be required, preferably at the
street right-of-way line. Alternative monument requirements may be approved by
the Township Engineer if an alternate arrangement still permits a surveyor to
stake out accurately any building lot shown on the record plan.
      (2)   Type. Reference monuments shall be constructed of steel reinforced
portland cement concrete or to other materials pre-approved by the Township
Engineer, and should have a minimum size of four by four inches square at the
top, six by six inches square at the bottom, 24 inches in length, and shall
have the top flush with the grade level.
   (B)   Markers. All lot corner markers shall be permanently located and shall
be at least a three-fourths inch metal pin or pipe with a minimum length of 20
inches, located in the ground to existing grade. Such markers shall be located
prior to the lot being offered for sale.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS
§ 154.190 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Generally. The requirements in this subchapter shall apply to any
“manufactured/mobile home park” as defined by the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Terms. The terms mobile home and manufactured home shall have the same
meaning.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.191 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall not be considered to be a manufactured/mobile home park,
but instead shall be ruled by the applicable sections of this chapter and the
zoning ordinance:
   (A)   Offering of more than one manufactured/mobile home for sale for
relocation to another tract, other than routine sale of previously occupied
homes within a mobile home park;
   (B)   Any development of mobile homes involving only one dwelling unit per
fee-simple lot, which shall meet all of the requirements for a single-family
dwelling residential development; and
   (C)   A manufactured/mobile home that is used only as a field office or work
or tool house during an on-site construction project as a temporary use.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.192 OTHER REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   All provisions of this chapter shall apply to a manufactured/mobile
home park, except for provisions that are specifically amended by this
subchapter.
   (B)   Every proposed mobile home park shall be submitted, reviewed, approved
and recorded as a land development. The requirements for a subdivision may also
need to be met if one or more new lots are created or lot lines are changed.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.193 GENERAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile homes sites within a mobile home park shall be located on
land with an average natural slope of less than 15%.
   (B)   Any street, not including an approved parking court, shall meet
township road bed construction requirements that would apply to a public
street.
   (C)   The mobile home park shall have adequate access by emergency vehicles
and shall include measures to provide adequate water supply for firefighting.
If the water supply cannot feasibly be provided on-site, the requirement may be
met by the applicant constructing a hydrant to access an available nearby water
supply.
   (D)   All mobile home parks of more than 25 dwelling units shall include a
qualified resident manager.
   (E)   Access.
      (1)   Vehicle access to individual mobile home spaces shall be from
interior parking courts, access drives or private streets and shall not be from
public streets exterior to the development. Streets within the development
providing access to 20 or more dwellings shall have a paved cartway width of at
least 26 feet, and other streets shall have a paved cartway width of at least
22 feet, provided on-street parking is prohibited. If on-street parking is
allowed, the minimum cartway width shall be 30 feet.
      (2)   All new streets within the mobile home park shall be private and be
maintained as part of the mobile home park.
   (F)   Parking.
      (1)   In addition to the off-street parking required by the zoning
ordinance, an average of 0.5 off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit shall
be provided in convenient locations for visitor parking.
      (2)   An area shall be set aside for the parking of recreational vehicles
and boats of residents, with a minimum of one space for every 20 dwelling
units.
   (G)   Other design standards and improvements.
      (1)   Every mobile home space shall be graded to provide a level, stable
and well-drained stand for the mobile home.
      (2)   Every space shall be provided with underground electric, telephone
and television cable (if available) connections.
      (3)   All fuel storage and supply systems shall be constructed and
maintained in conformity with the regulations of all authorities having
jurisdiction. No above ground fuel tanks shall be allowed within a required
setback.
      (4)   An average of one deciduous street tree shall be provided for each
50 feet of frontage along any street. These trees shall meet the requirements
of §§
154.160 through
154.179.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who or which has violated any
provisions of this chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil
enforcement proceeding commenced by the Board of Supervisors or its authorized
representatives, pay a judgement of not more than $500 plus all court costs,
including reasonable attorney fees incurred by the municipality as a result
thereof, unless a higher penalty is established under state law. This shall
include, but not be limited to, any person, partnership or corporation that
accomplishes any act listed under §
154.004 without following the applicable procedures of this chapter.
   (B)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt
the seller or transferor from such penalties or from the remedies herein
provided.
   (C)   If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the judgment, the
township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable rules of civil
procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation, unless the district justice determining that there has been a
violation further determines that there was a good faith basis for the person,
partnership or corporation violating the chapter to have believed that there
was no such violation, in which event there shall be deemed to have been only
one such violation until the fifth day following the date of the determination
of a violation by the District Justice and thereafter each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. Imprisonment shall not be
authorized as a penalty under this chapter.
   (D)   See also the §
154.013(C). All fines collected for such violations shall be paid over to the
township.
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FORM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1079.jpg]
 
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
APPENDIX B: PLAN STATEMENTS, FORMS AND LETTERS
   (1)   Plan preparer’s statements.
PLAN PREPARER’S STATEMENTS - Model Forms
I, _______________________, a registered surveyor of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, do hereby certify that the Plan, prepared from a field survey on
__________________, 20____ correctly represents the property boundary of the
proposed subdivision or land development.
______________________         ______________________________
Date                  Registered Surveyors’ Signature
I, _______________________, a registered surveyor, registered landscape
architect or licensed professional engineer in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, do hereby certify that the accompanying application, plans and
supporting documentation are true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge.
______________________         ______________________________
Date                  Plan Preparer’s Signature
______________________         ______________________________
Address               Printed Name
 
   (2)   Owner’s statement.
 
OWNER’S STATEMENT - Model Form
I/we make this statement being duly sworn according to law. I/we state that for
the land involving the accompanying plans, we are the majority owners of this
property or the authorized officers of the corporation that owns this property,
and are in peaceful possession of it, and that there are no suits pending
affecting the title of same, and that I/we acknowledge and endorse the
accompanying plans and that we will propose a record plan for recording (as
applicable), after receiving all required township approvals.
__________________________      ______________________________
OWNER’S OR AUTHORIZED CORPORATE OFFICER’S SIGNATURES
__________________________      ______________________________
Printed Name               Printed Name
SWORN AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE THIS ____________ DAY OF _________________,
20_____.
 
   (3)   Permit/approval certification.
PERMIT/APPROVAL CERTIFICATION - Required, Unless Alternative Text Pre-Approved
by the Township
I/we hereby certify this date of _________________ that I/we am/are the owners
or authorized equitable owners of the property shown and depicted on the
accompanying plans and that I/we and my/our heirs and assigns shall comply with
all requirements and obtain all permits and approvals required by all local,
state and federal agencies and bodies; and I/we agree and acknowledge that any
approval of this plan by Upper Milford Township is contingent upon my/our
obtaining such permits and approvals, and that if all such permits and
approvals are not obtained as required, any and all approvals given by Upper
Milford Township with respect to this plan shall automatically become null and
void without further action on the part of the Upper Milford Township.
                  _______________________________
                  _______________________________
 
_______________________________
Notary Public
My Commission Expires:
 
   (4)   Approval/review block.
APPROVAL/REVIEW BLOCK
REVIEWED BY THE LEHIGH VALLEY PLANNING COMMISSION
__________________________            ___________________
Lehigh Valley Planning Commission Staff Person      Date
REVIEWED BY THE TOWNSHIP ENGINEER
__________________________            ___________________
Township Engineer                  Date
REVIEWED BY THE UPPER MILFORD TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION
__________________________            ___________________
Chair Secretary                  Date
APPROVED BY THE UPPER MILFORD TOWNSHIP BOARD OF SUPERVISORS AND ACCEPTED FOR
RECORDING
___________________   ___________________   ___________________
 
(Ord. 127, passed 3-18-2010)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
Title, Severability, Enactment
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Short title
   
155.003   Severability
   
155.004   Procedural defects in enactment
   
155.005   Repealer
   
155.006   Enactment
Administration
   
155.020   Applicability of this chapter
   
155.021   Purposes and community development objectives
   
155.022   Permits and certificates
   
155.023   General procedure for permits
   
155.024   Interpretation and uses not regulated
   
155.025   Fees
   
155.026   Amendments to this chapter
   
155.027   Curative amendments
   
155.028   Zoning Officer
   
155.029   Zoning Hearing Board actions and variances
   
155.030   Zoning Hearing Board hearings and decisions
   
155.031   Appeals to court
   
155.032   Limited public utility exemptions
   
155.033   Township and municipal authority exemption
   
155.034   Special exception use process
   
155.035   Liability
Definitions
   
155.050   General interpretation
   
155.051   Terms defined
Districts, Permitted Uses And Yard Requirements
   
155.065   Establishment of zoning districts and purposes
   
155.066   Application of district regulations
   
155.067   Zoning map and rules for interpreting district boundaries
   
155.068   Table of allowed uses in each zoning district
   
155.069   Dimensional requirements in each district
   
155.070   Additional requirements within the AC agricultural conservation
district
   
155.071   Age restricted residential development
   
155.072   Historic buildings
   
155.073   Additional requirements for certain permitted by right uses
   
155.074   Special exception uses
   
155.075   Accessory uses
   
155.076   Conservation/open space development option
   
155.077   Coordinated zoning along municipal borders development option
General Regulations
   
155.090   Frontage onto improved streets; number of uses or buildings; minimum
size of dwellings
   
155.091   Height exceptions
   
155.092   Special lot and yard requirements, sight distance and buffer yards
   
155.093   Landscaping
   
155.094   Future right-of-way widths for roads
   
155.095   Frontage development along arterial and collector streets
   
155.096   Nonconformities
   
155.097   Site design guidelines
   
155.098   Dumpster screening and location
   
155.099   Two dwellings on a lot
Environmentally Sensitive Areas
   
155.110   Environmental preservation required
   
155.111   Nuisances prohibited
   
155.112   Steep slopes
   
155.113   Areas with hydric soils and high water table soils
   
155.114   Development along streams and wetlands
   
155.115   Alluvial soils areas
   
155.116   Floodplain regulations
   
155.117   Filling, excavation and grading
   
155.118   Outdoor storage control
   
155.119   Sewage waste treatment and disposal control
   
155.120   Noise control
   
155.121   Vibration control
   
155.122   Dust and odor control
   
155.123   Control of light and glare
   
155.124   Tree conservation
Signs
   
155.135   Purposes and applicability
   
155.136   Sign definitions
   
155.137   Miscellaneous signs not requiring permits
   
155.138   Freestanding, wall and window signs (on-premises signs)
   
155.139   Prohibited signs
   
155.140   Off-premises signs (including billboards)
   
155.141   General design, location and construction of signs
   
155.142   Vehicles functioning as signs
   
155.143   Abandoned or outdated signs
   
155.144   Measurement of signs
   
155.145   Illumination of signs
   
155.146   Major residential development signs
Off-Street Parking And Loading
   
155.160   Required number of off-street parking spaces
   
155.161   General regulations for off-street parking
   
155.162   Design standards for off-street parking
   
155.163   Off-street loading
   
155.164   Fire lanes and access
 
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Functional classification of roads
   
Appendix B:   Zoning Map
TITLE, SEVERABILITY, ENACTMENT
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   A new ordinance:
   (A)   Dividing the Township of Upper Milford, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania
into districts with varying regulations;
   (B)   Permitting, prohibiting, regulating and determining the uses of land,
watercourses and other bodies of water, the size, height, bulk, location,
erection, construction, repair, expansion, razing, removal and use of
structures, the areas and dimensions of land and bodies of water to be occupied
by uses and structures, as well as yards and other open areas to be left
unoccupied;
   (C)   Establishing the maximum density and intensity of uses;
   (D)   Providing for the administration and enforcement of this ordinance in
accordance with the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq., including provisions for special exceptions and variances to be
administered by a Zoning Hearing Board; and
   (E)   Establishing provisions for the protection of certain natural
features.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and be cited as the “Upper Milford Township
Zoning Ordinance of 2010”.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.003 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that if a court of
competent jurisdiction declares any provisions of this chapter to be invalid or
ineffective in whole or in part, the effect of such decision shall be limited
to those provisions which are expressly stated in the decision to be invalid or
ineffective, and all other provisions of this chapter shall continue to be
separately and fully effective. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that
it would have passed this chapter and each section or part thereof, other than
any part declared invalid, if it had advance knowledge that any part would be
declared invalid. If the entire zoning ordinance should be declared invalid,
then the township zoning ordinance that was in effect immediately prior to the
enactment of this new zoning ordinance shall automatically be re-instated as
the zoning ordinance for the township.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.004 PROCEDURAL DEFECTS IN ENACTMENT.
   Allegations that this chapter or any amendment was enacted in a procedurally
defective manner shall be appealed as provided in state law.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.005 REPEALER.
   The pre-existing township zoning ordinance, as amended are hereby repealed,
in addition to the repeal of any other township ordinances or resolutions or
parts thereof that were adopted prior to this chapter that are clearly in
direct conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.006 ENACTMENT.
   Under the authority conferred by the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., the Board of Supervisors of
the township hereby enacts and ordains into an ordinance the attached document,
as codified herein, this date of March 18, 2010. This chapter shall become
effective in five calendar days.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.020 APPLICABILITY OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This zoning chapter shall apply throughout the township. Any activity
regulated by this chapter shall only occur in such a way that conforms with the
regulations of this chapter. See §
155.022(A).
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.021 PURPOSES AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES.
   This chapter is hereby adopted:
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements and purposes (including §§ 604 and
605 or their successor section(s), which are included by reference) of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10604
and 10605;
   (B)   In accordance with goals and objectives of the Southwestern Lehigh
County Comprehensive Plan, which are hereby included by reference; and
   (C)   To carry out the following major objectives:
      (1)   To make sure that development carefully relates to natural
features, and to avoid overly intense development of environmentally sensitive
land;
      (2)   To minimize disturbance of creek valleys and steep woodlands;
      (3)   To avoid overextending ground water supplies, and to encourage
ground water recharge;
      (4)   To protect the quality of ground water and surface waters;
      (5)   To promote traditional styles of development;
      (6)   To promote compatibility between land uses;
      (7)   To seek coordinated development and roads across municipal borders;
      (8)   To provide for a variety of residential densities and meet legal
obligations to provide opportunities for all housing types;
      (9)   To promote development that retains the rural character of the
township;
      (10)   To encourage rehabilitation and avoid demolition of historic
buildings;
      (11)   To direct higher density development to areas that are physically
suitable, accessible by major roads and that have the potential of central
water and sewage services;
      (12)   To coordinate development with future central water and sewage
service areas;
      (13)   To direct industrial development to locations that will minimize
conflicts with homes;
      (14)   To direct commercial businesses to existing commercial areas,
while avoiding new strip commercial areas that would cause traffic congestion
and safety problems and conflicts with homes;
      (15)   To promote new business development in appropriate areas that will
provide additional tax revenue and job opportunities; and
      (16)   To promote public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.022 PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Generally. Any of the following activities or any other activity
regulated by this chapter shall only be carried out in conformity with this
chapter:
         (a)   Erection, construction, movement, placement or extension of a
structure, building or sign;
         (b)   Change of the type of use or expansion of the use of a structure
or area of land;
         (c)   Creation of a lot or alteration of lot lines; and/or
         (d)   Creation of a new use.
      (2)   Zoning permit. A zoning permit indicates that a zoning application
complies with this chapter to the best knowledge of the applicable township
staff.
         (a)   A zoning permit is required to be issued prior to the start of
any of the following activities:
            1.   Erection, construction, movement, placement, relocation or
expansion of a structure, building or sign;
            2.   Change of the type of use or expansion of the use of a
structure or area of land;
            3.   Creation of a new use;
            4.   Demolition of a building, or partial demolition of the
exterior of a building;
            5.   Site alterations or mineral extraction as defined by §
155.051;
            6.   Excavation or grading in preparation for the construction of a
building or a change in use of a property; and/or
            7.   Construction or installation of any animal waste impoundment,
lake, pond, dam or other water retention basin.
         (b)   The township may, at its option, issue combined or separate
building permits and zoning permits and/or may utilize single or separate
applications for the permits.
      (3)   Certificate of use.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to use and/or occupy any new principal
nonresidential building or establish any new principal nonresidential use until
a certificate of use for such building or use has been issued by the township
staff. (Note: a certificate of occupancy may also be required in additional
situations under the construction codes, and the township may at its option
combine a certificate of use with a certificate of occupancy.)
         (b)   The Zoning Officer may require that the issuance of the
certificate of use be delayed if the Zoning Officer believes that the activity,
structure or use is not in compliance with this chapter and associated zoning
approvals, until such time as compliance is achieved.
         (c)   Upon the request of an applicant, the Zoning Officer may in
writing allow a temporary occupancy or activity to occur before all zoning
requirements have been met where the following conditions are met:
            1.   The applicant shall prove to the township that the activity or
occupancy can occur safely without endangering public health or safety;
            2.   The temporary approval shall establish in writing a maximum
time period under which it is valid. A six month maximum time period shall
apply if not otherwise specified;
            3.   Failure to receive a permanent certificate of use within such
time period shall be a violation of this chapter;
            4.   The temporary approval may be conditioned upon compliance with
certain specific requirements within certain time periods; and
            5.   See division (G) below.
   (B)   Repairs and maintenance. Ordinary repairs and maintenance to existing
structures that do not involve an expansion or change of a use or structure
shall not by itself be regulated by this chapter. Examples of such work include
replacement of a roof or porch that does not involve enclosure of space.
(However, a construction permit under any Township Building Code may be needed
for such work.)
   (C)   Types of uses.
      (1)   Permitted by right uses. The Zoning Officer shall issue a permit
under this chapter in response to an application for a use that is “permitted
by right” if it meets all of the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Special exception use or application requiring a variance. A permit
under this chapter for a use requiring a special exception or variance shall be
issued by the Zoning Officer only in response to a written approval by the
Zoning Hearing Board following a hearing.
   (D)   Applications.
      (1)   Submittal. All applications for a zoning permit or a decision by
the Zoning Hearing Board shall be made in writing on a form provided by the
township. Such completed application, with required fees, shall be submitted to
a designated township staff person.
      (2)   Site plan. The applicant shall submit a minimum of two copies of a
site plan with the application if the application involves a new building,
expansion of a building or addition of three or more parking spaces. The site
plan shall be drawn to scale and show the following:
         (a)   Locations, dimensions and uses of existing and proposed
structures, parking and loading areas, and locations of existing and proposed
uses of areas of land, with existing features clearly distinguished from
proposed features;
         (b)   Notes showing the dimensions of all buildings from lot lines and
street rights-of-way;
         (c)   Locations of any watercourses and any 100-year floodplain;
         (d)   Proposed lot areas, lot widths and other applicable dimensional
requirements;
         (e)   Locations and widths of existing and proposed sidewalks;
         (f)   A north arrow and scale; and
         (g)   Well and primary and alternate septic system locations, if
applicable.
      (3)   Additional information. Any application under this chapter shall
include the following information, unless the Zoning Officer determines such
information is unnecessary to determine compliance with this chapter:
         (a)   The address of the lot;
         (b)   Name and address of the applicant, and of the owner of the
property if different from the applicant;
         (c)   If the applicant is not the landowner of record, information
shall be presented with the application, such as an agreement of sale or lease,
to demonstrate that the applicant has the legal right to make the application;
         (d)   A current deed for the property;
         (e)   A description of the existing and proposed use(s) of the
property, with the proposed use described in sufficient detail for the Zoning
Officer to determine compliance with this chapter;
         (f)   All other applicable information listed on the official township
application form;
         (g)   If the applicant is incorporated, the legal names and day
telephone numbers of officers of the organization/corporation;
         (h)   Such additional information that the Zoning Officer may
determine is reasonably necessary to determine compliance with this chapter;
and
         (i)   A listing of all special exception approvals and/or variances
which the applicant is requesting and/or a description with a date of any such
approvals that were previously granted for this property that relate to this
application.
      (4)   Submittals to the Board. In addition to the information listed in
division (D)(3) above, an application requiring a site plan and action by the
Zoning Hearing Board shall also include the following information, unless the
Zoning Officer determines that such information is unnecessary to determine
compliance with this chapter:
         (a)   The present zoning district and major applicable lot
requirements;
         (b)   For a nonresidential use:
            1.   A description of the proposed nonresidential operations and
storage in sufficient detail to indicate potential nuisances and hazards
regarding noise, large truck traffic, glare, odors, dust, fire or toxic or
explosive hazards or other significant public health and safety hazards; and
            2.   A list of the maximum hours of operation.
         (c)   The existing directions of stormwater flow (and any proposed
revisions), and any proposed methods of stormwater management;
         (d)   A listing of any sections of this chapter being appealed, with
the reasons for any appeal;
         (e)   Approximate locations of principal buildings and locations of
streets and alleys and zoning district boundaries within 100 feet of the
boundaries of the tract, and description of uses of adjoining properties (such
as “drug store” or “single-family detached dwelling”);
         (f)   Heights, locations, methods of illumination and intensity of
exterior lighting and sign lighting;
         (g)   Name and address of person who prepared the site plan;
         (h)   Signed acknowledgment of the application by the applicant; and
         (i)   Such additional information required under applicable sections
of this chapter.
      (5)   Ownership. No person other than a landowner or their specifically
authorized agent or a tenant or lessee with written permission of the landowner
shall submit a zoning application. (See definition of “landowner” in §
155.051.)
   (E)   Issuance of permits.
      (1)   Generally. At least one copy of each permit application and any
other zoning approval shall be retained in township files.
      (2)   PennDOT permit. Where necessary for access onto a state road, a
township zoning or building permit shall be automatically conditioned upon
issuance of a PennDOT highway occupancy permit.
   (F)   Revocation of permits; appeal of permit or approval.
      (1)   Revocation. The Zoning Officer shall revoke, withhold or suspend a
permit or approval issued under the provisions of the zoning chapter in case of
one or more of the following:
         (a)   Any false statement or misrepresentation of fact in the
application or on the plans on which the permit or approval was based; (Note:
the State Criminal Code provides for penalties for providing false information
to a municipal employee in the carrying out of his or her duties.)
         (b)   Upon violation of any condition lawfully imposed by the Zoning
Hearing Board upon a special exception use or variance;
         (c)   Any work being accomplished or use of land or structures in such
a way that does not comply with this chapter or an approved site plan or
approved permit application; and/or
         (d)   For any other just cause set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Appeals. A party with legitimate standing, or as otherwise provided
by state law, may appeal decisions under this chapter within the provisions of
the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
Any such appeal shall occur within the time period established in the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (as
of the adoption date of this chapter, such provisions were in §§ 914.1 (53 P.S.
§§ 10914.1) and 1002-A (53 P.S. §§ 11102-A).
   (G)   Zoning permit for temporary uses and structures.
      (1)   Generally. A zoning permit for a temporary use or structure may be
issued by the Zoning Officer for any of the following:
         (a)   A temporary permit may be issued for customary, routine and
accessory short-term special events, provided that:
            1.   Only a well-established nonprofit organization or a permitted
place of worship proposing a temporary use to clearly primarily serve a
charitable, public service or religious purpose shall be eligible to receive
approval for commercial-type activities in a district where a commercial use
would not otherwise be permitted;
            2.   Such total events shall be limited to a maximum of ten total
days per calendar year; and
            3.   The applicant shall prove to the Zoning Officer that
sufficient parking and traffic control will be available for the special event,
without obstructing parking that is required to serve other uses on the site.
         (b)   A temporary permit may be issued for temporary storage and
office trailers that are necessary to serve on-site construction, while such
construction is actively underway under a valid township permit.
         (c)   In addition, Christmas tree sales shall be allowed by right in
all districts during the months of November and December.
      (2)   Time period. The Zoning Officer shall state a reasonable maximum
time period on the temporary permit. If no time limit is stated, then a seven-
day maximum period shall apply. A temporary permit may be renewed for just
cause.
      (3)   Temporary retail sales.
         (a)   Except as provided for in division (G)(1)(a) above, and except
for allowed accessory agricultural sales, a lot shall only be used for
temporary retail sales if all of the following conditions are met.
            1.   The property shall be located within a zoning district that
allows retail sales.
            2.   The operator shall have received any business permits required
by the township.
            3.   No off-street parking spaces shall be obstructed that are
required to serve permanent uses on the lot.
            4.   Any signs visible from a public street shall comply with this
chapter.
            5.   If food or beverages are sold that are not pre-packaged, the
applicant shall prove compliance with state health regulations, including
having on-site facilities for workers to wash their hands. Proper bathroom
facilities shall also be available for workers.
            6.   Any structure shall meet applicable minimum setbacks.
            7.   A permit under this chapter shall be required from the
township, which shall be displayed while the activity is open for business.
            8.   The application may be rejected if the Zoning Officer has
reason to believe that the activity would obstruct safe sight distances.
         (b)   See also regulations on tents and membrane structures in the
International Fire Code, which is in effect in the township.
   (H)   Compliance with township subdivision and land development ordinance.
      (1)   If a application under this chapter would also be regulated by the
township subdivision and land development ordinance (“SALDO”), then any permit
or approval under this zoning chapter shall automatically be conditioned upon
compliance with the SALDO. See the definitions of “land development” and
“subdivision” in the SALDO (§
154.031 of this code of ordinances).
      (2)   For example, if an applicant applies for a single-family detached
dwelling on a proposed new lot, the construction permit for such dwelling shall
not be valid until after the lot is granted final subdivision approval and the
lot is officially recorded by the County Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.023 GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   After receiving a proper application, the Zoning Officer shall either:
      (1)   Issue the applicable permit(s); or
      (2)   Deny the application(s) as submitted, indicating one or more
reasons.
   (B)   After the permit under this chapter has been issued, the applicant may
undertake the action specified by the permit, in compliance with other township
ordinances. However, it is recommended that applicants wait 30 days to begin
construction if there is a possibility of an appeal by another party to have
the permit revoked. Any commencement of construction or a use within this 30-
day appeal period shall be at the risk of the applicant.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.024 INTERPRETATION AND USES NOT REGULATED.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. Where more than one provision of this chapter
controls a particular matter, the provision that is more restrictive upon uses
and structures shall apply. The provisions of this chapter are in addition to
any other applicable township ordinance.
   (B)   Uses not specifically regulated. If a use clearly is not permitted by
right or as a special exception use by this chapter within any zoning district,
the use is prohibited, except that the Zoning Hearing Board may permit such use
as a special exception use if the applicant specifically proves to the clear
satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing Board that all of the following conditions
would be met:
      (1)   The proposed use would be no more intensive with respect to
external impacts and nuisances than uses that are permitted in the district;
      (2)   The proposed use would be closely similar in impacts and character
to uses permitted in that district, considering the standards in §
155.096(F)(3);
      (3)   The use would meet the standards that would apply under §
155.034 to a special exception use; and
      (4)   The use is not specifically prohibited in that district.
   (C)   Interpretation of chapter text and boundaries.
      (1)   The Zoning Officer shall literally apply the wording of this
chapter and the location of all district boundaries to particular applications.
In any case, the Zoning Officer may also request an advisory opinion from the
Township Solicitor to aid in the Zoning Officer’s determination.
      (2)   If an applicant disagrees with the Zoning Officer’s determination
and believes that the chapter should be interpreted in the applicant’s favor,
the applicant may appeal to the Zoning Hearing Board. See §
155.029.
      (3)   See §
155.067.
   (D)   Undefined terms/interpretation of definitions. See §§
155.050 and
155.051.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.025 FEES.
   A township fee schedule for permits and applications may be established and
amended by written resolution of the Board of Supervisors. No application or
appeal shall be considered filed until all fees are paid.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.026 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Within the requirements of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., the Board of Supervisors may amend, or
repeal any or all portions of this chapter on:
      (1)   Its own motion; or
      (2)   After agreeing to hear a written request of any person, entity,
landowner or the Planning Commission.
   (A)   See also the intermunicipal agreement to implement the Southwestern
Lehigh County Comprehensive Plan, which may provide that notice be sent to
other municipalities.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.027 CURATIVE AMENDMENTS.
   The applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. shall apply. (Note: As of the adoption date of
this chapter, these provisions were primarily in §§ 609.1 (53 P.S. §§ 10609.1),
609.2 (53 P.S. §§ 10609.2) and 916.1 (53 P.S. §§ 10916.1) of such Act.)
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.028 ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Zoning Officer(s) shall be appointed by the Board of
Supervisors. The Board of Supervisors may designate other township staff
persons to serve as Assistant Zoning Officer(s). Assistant Zoning Officers may
serve with the same authority and duties as the Zoning Officer. The Zoning
Officer shall not hold any elective office within the township, but may hold
other appointed offices.
   (B)   Duties and powers. The Zoning Officer’s duties and powers shall
include the following:
      (1)   Administer the zoning chapter in accordance with its literal terms,
including to receive and examine all applications required under the terms of
this chapter, and issue or refuse permits within the provisions of this
chapter;
      (2)   Conduct inspections to determine compliance, and receive complaints
of violation of this chapter;
      (3)   Keep records of applications, permits, certificates, written
decisions and variances granted by the Zoning Hearing Board, and of enforcement
orders, with all such records being the property of the township and being
available for public inspection;
      (4)   Review proposed subdivisions and land developments for compliance
with this chapter;
      (5)   Take enforcement actions as provided by the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.;
      (6)   Maintain available records concerning nonconformities, provided
that the township is not required to document every nonconformity; and
      (7)   Serve such other functions as are provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.029 ZONING HEARING BOARD ACTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Membership of Board. The Zoning Hearing Board shall consist of five
residents of the township appointed by the Board of Supervisors. The existing
terms of office shall continue, with terms of office being five years, and with
the terms being so fixed that the term of office of one member shall expire
each year. Members of the Board shall hold no other elected or appointed office
in the township nor shall any member be an employee of the municipality.
      (1)   Alternate members. The Board of Supervisors may appoint alternate
members of the Zoning Hearing Board within the applicable provisions of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
(Note: as of the adoption date of this chapter, such provisions were in § 903
(b) (53 P.S. §§ 10903(b)) of such Act.)
      (2)   Expenditures. Within the maximum amount of funds appropriated by
the Board of Supervisors, the Zoning Hearing Board may employ or contract for
secretaries, legal counsel, and other technical and clerical services. Members
and alternate members may receive compensation, within limits established by
the Board of Supervisors, for the performance of its duties.
   (B)   Vacancies. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be only for the
unexpired portion of a term.
   (C)   Organization. The applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. shall
apply. (As of the adoption date of this chapter, these provisions were in §§
906(a), (b) and (c) of such Act (53 P.S. §§ 10906(a),(b) and (c).)
   (D)   Zoning Hearing Board jurisdiction and functions. The Zoning Hearing
Board shall be responsible for the following.
      (1)   Appeal of a decision by the Zoning Officer.
         (a)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by
an affected person, entity or the Board of Supervisors that the Zoning Officer
has improperly acted under the requirements and procedures of this chapter.
         (b)   See time limitations for appeals in division (E) below.
      (2)   Challenge to the validity of the ordinance or map. The applicable
provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., shall apply. (Note: as of the adoption date of this
chapter, these provisions were primarily in §§ 909.1 (53 P.S. §§ 10909.1) and
916 (53 P.S. §§ 10916) of such Act.)
      (3)   Variance.
         (a)   The Board shall hear requests for variances filed with the
township staff in writing.
         (b)   Standards: the Board may grant a variance only within the
limitations of state law.
         (c)   Note: as of the adoption date of this chapter, the
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. provided that all
of the following findings must be made, where relevant:
            1.   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions
(including irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or
exceptional topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the
particular property) and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such
conditions and not the circumstances or conditions generally created by the
provisions of this chapter in the neighborhood or district in which the
property is located;
            2.   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is
no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of the zoning chapter and a variance is therefore necessary to
enable the reasonable use of the property;
            3.   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the
appellant;
            4.   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare; and
            5.   The variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum
variance that will afford relief and will represent the least modification
possible of the regulation in issue.
         (c)   In granting any variance, the Board may attach such reasonable
conditions and safeguards as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of
this chapter.
      (4)   Special exception.
         (a)   The Board shall hear and decide requests for all special
exceptions filed with the township staff in writing. The Board shall only
permit a special exception that is authorized by this chapter. See §
155.034.
         (b)   Conditions: in granting a special exception, the Zoning Hearing
Board may attach such reasonable conditions and safeguards, in addition to
those expressed in the chapter, as it may deem necessary to implement the
purposes and intent of this chapter.
      (5)   Persons with disabilities. After the Zoning Officer receives a
complete written application, the Zoning Hearing Board shall grant a special
exception allowing modifications to specific requirements of this chapter that
the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing Board are
required under applicable federal law to provide a “reasonable accommodation”
to serve persons who the applicant proves have “disabilities” as defined in and
protected by such laws.
         (a)   Such reasonable accommodations shall be requested in accordance
with the United States Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, being 42 U.S.C. §§
3601 et seq. and/or the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
12101, as amended.
         (b)   If the applicant is requesting a reasonable accommodation under
the United States Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
et seq. or the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101, the
applicant shall identify the disability which is protected by such statutes,
the extent of the modification of the provisions of this chapter necessary for
a reasonable accommodation and the manner by which the reasonable accommodation
requested may be removed when such person(s) with a protected disability no
longer will be present on the property.
         (c)   Any modification approved under this section may be limited to
the time period during which the persons with disabilities occupy or utilize
the premises.
      (6)   Other matters. The Zoning Hearing Board shall also hear any other
matters as set forth in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as
amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (Note: as of the adoption date of this
chapter, such provisions were primarily within § 909.1 (53 P.S. §§ 10909) of
such law.) The Zoning Hearing Board also may hear appeals of other matters if
authorized under a separate township ordinance.
   (E)   Time limits for appeals. The applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., shall
apply. (Note: as of the adoption date of this chapter, these provisions were in
§ 914.1 (53 P.S. §§ 10914.1) of such Act.)
   (F)   Stay of proceedings. The stay of proceedings provisions of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101
et seq., shall apply. (Note: as of the adoption date of this chapter, such
provisions were in § 915.1 (53 P.S. §§ 10915.1) of such Act.)
   (G)   Time limits on permits and approvals.
      (1)   (a)   After a variance is approved or other zoning approval (such
as special exception approval) is officially authorized, then any applicable
zoning and building permits shall be secured by the applicant within 12 months
after the date of such approval or authorization. The work authorized by zoning
permits shall then be completed within 12 months after the issuance of the
permits.
         (b)   However, if a variance is approved to address a violation of
this zoning chapter, then the permit shall be acquired and the work completed
within six months after the variance is approved, with no further time
extension.
      (2)   Extension: in response to an applicant stating good cause in
writing, the Zoning Officer may extend in writing the time limit for completion
of work to a maximum total of 24 months after permits are issued.
      (3)   If an applicant fails to obtain the necessary permits or begin
construction within the above time periods, or allows interruptions in
substantial construction of longer than 12 months, the Zoning Officer shall
conclusively presume that the applicant has waived, withdrawn or abandoned
approvals, variances and permits under this chapter and all such approvals,
variances and permits shall be deemed automatically rescinded by the township.
   (H)   Multiple applications. No more than one application for the same
property shall be pending before the Zoning Hearing Board for special exception
approval at any time.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.030 ZONING HEARING BOARD HEARINGS AND DECISIONS.
   The following requirements shall apply to procedures, hearings and decisions
of the Zoning Hearing Board.
   (A)   Notice of hearings. Notice of all hearings of the Board shall be given
as follows.
      (1)   Ad. Public notice shall be published, as defined by § 107 of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. § 10107. The notice
shall state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the
matter to be considered.
      (2)   Posting. Notice of such hearing shall be conspicuously posted on
the affected tract of land at least one week prior to the hearing. The township
staff shall post the property. It is the responsibility of the applicant to
make sure that such notice remains posted until the hearing.
      (3)   Persons given notice.
         (a)   1.   The township shall provide written notice to the applicant
of the time and place of the hearing. The township should also provide notice
to the Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors. Also, such notice shall be
given to any other person or group (including civic or community organizations)
who has made a written timely request for such notice.
            2.   a.   In addition, the township should give notice to the
primary owner of record of land:
                  i.   Within 200 feet of the affected lot; or
                  ii.   That is contiguous to the subject lot.
               b.   All such notices should be mailed or delivered to the last
known address.
         (b)    If a matter involves a location within 500 feet from the
boundary of another municipality, notice of the hearing should also be provided
to the offices of such other municipality.
   (B)   Initiation of hearings. A hearing required under this chapter shall be
initiated within 60 days of the date of an applicant’s request for a hearing,
unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time.
   (C)   Decision/findings.
      (1)   The Board shall render a written decision on each application
within 45 days after the last hearing on that application before the Board,
unless the applicant has agreed in writing to an extension of time.
      (2)   Where the application is contested or denied, the decision shall be
accompanied by findings of fact and conclusions based thereon, together with
the reasons for such conclusions.
      (3)   References shall be provided to the most pertinent section(s) of
this chapter and/or the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53
P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.
   (D)   Notice of decision. A copy of the final decision shall be delivered or
mailed to the applicant or his or her representative at their last known
address not later than the time limit established by the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (Note:
as of the adoption date of this chapter, such provisions were within § 908(9)
and 908(10) (53 P.S. §§ 10908(9) and (10)) of such Act, including provisions
regarding notice to other parties.)
   (E)   See also § 908 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being
53 P.S. §§ 10908.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.031 APPEALS TO COURT.
   The provisions for appeals to court that are stated in the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., shall
apply. (Note: as of the adoption date of this chapter, these provisions were in
§§ 1001-A, (53 P.S. §§ 101001-A) 1002-A, (53 P.S. §§ 101002-A) 1003-A (53 P.S.
§§ 101003-A), 1004-A (53 P.S. §§ 101004-A), 1005-A (53 P.S. §§ 101005-A) and
1006-A (53 P.S. §§ 101006-A) of such Act.)
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.032 LIMITED PUBLIC UTILITY EXEMPTIONS.
   See the provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as
amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (Note: as of the adoption date of this
chapter, such provisions were within § 619 (53 P.S. §§ 10619) of such Act.)
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.033 TOWNSHIP AND MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY EXEMPTION.
   This zoning chapter shall not apply to uses or structures owned by the
township or by a municipal authority created solely by the township for uses
and structures that are intended for a public utility, stormwater, public
works, recycling, municipal administrative, public recreation or public health
and safety purpose.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.034 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PROCESS.
   (A)   Purpose. The special exception process is designed to allow careful
review of uses that have some potential of conflicts with adjacent uses or
areas.
   (B)   Special exception procedure.
      (1)   A site plan shall be submitted, which shall contain the information
required in §
155.022(D). If a fully engineered subdivision or land development plan will be
required, it may be submitted separately, such as after a special exception is
approved.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer should provide a review to the Zoning Hearing
Board regarding the compliance of the application with this chapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall follow the procedures provided in §
155.030.
      (4)   The township staff should offer a special exception application to
the Township Planning Commission for any advisory review that the Commission
may wish to provide. However, the Zoning Hearing Board shall meet the time
limits of state law for a decision, regardless of whether the Township Planning
Commission has provided comments.
      (5)   See § 908 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. for time limits.
   (C)   Consideration of special exception applications. When special
exceptions are allowed by this chapter, the Zoning Hearing Board shall hear and
decide requests for such special exceptions in accordance with standards
established by this chapter, including the following.
      (1)   Compliance with this chapter. The applicant shall establish by
credible evidence that the application complies with all applicable
requirements of this chapter. The applicant shall provide the Board with
sufficient plans, studies or other data to demonstrate this compliance.
      (2)   Compliance with other laws. The approval may be conditioned upon
the applicant later showing proof of compliance with other specific applicable
township, state and federal laws, regulations and permits. Required permits or
other proof of compliance may be required to be presented to the township prior
to the issuance of any zoning permit, building permit, certification of
occupancy and/or recording of an approved plan.
      (3)   Traffic. The applicant shall establish that the traffic from the
proposed use will be accommodated in a safe and efficient manner that will
minimize hazards and congestion, after considering any improvements proposed to
be made by the applicant as a condition on approval.
      (4)   Site planning. The application shall include proper site layout,
internal circulation, parking, buffering and all other elements of proper
design as specified in this chapter.
      (5)   Neighborhood. The proposed use shall not substantially change the
character of any surrounding residential neighborhood, after considering any
proposed conditions upon approval such as limits upon hours of operation.
      (6)   Safety. The proposed use shall not create a significant hazard to
the public health and safety, such as fire, toxic or explosive hazards.
      (7)   Natural features. The proposed use shall be suitable for the site,
considering the disturbance of steep slopes, mature woodland, wetlands,
floodplains, springs and other important natural features.
   (D)   Conditions. In granting a special exception, the Board may require
such reasonable conditions and safeguards (in addition to those expressed in
this chapter) as it determines are necessary to implement the purposes of this
chapter. Conditions imposed by the Zoning Hearing Board shall automatically
become conditions of the building permit issued pursuant thereto, and any
failure to comply with said conditions shall be a violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.035 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any review of activity within the floodplain, site plan review,
subdivision or land development approval, erosion control review, wetland
delineation review, stormwater runoff review, review of activity on steep
slopes, or any other review, approval or permit under this chapter by an
officer, employee, board, commission, solicitor, consultant or agency of the
township shall not constitute a representation, guarantee or warranty of any
kind by the township, or its employees, officials, boards, solicitor(s),
consultants or agencies of the practicality or safety of any structure, use or
subdivision, and shall create no liability upon nor a cause of action against
such entity or person for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
   (B)   If the Zoning Officer mistakenly issues a permit under this chapter,
the township shall not be liable for any later lawful withdrawal of such
permit.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
DEFINITIONS
§ 155.050 GENERAL INTERPRETATION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, words and terms used herein shall be
interpreted as follows.
   (A)   Words in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (B)   “Used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building include the
words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied”.
   (C)   “Should” means that it is strongly encouraged but is not mandatory.
“Shall” is always mandatory.
   (D)   “Sale” shall also include rental.
   (E)   Unless stated otherwise, the singular shall also regulate the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice-versa.
   (F)   If a word or term is not defined by this chapter, but is defined in
the subdivision and land development ordinance (SALDO), Chapter 154 of this
code of ordinances, then the SALDO definition shall apply to this chapter. If a
word or term is not defined in either this chapter or the SALDO, then the word
or term shall have its plain and ordinary meaning within the context of the
section. In such case, in case of a dispute, a standard reference dictionary
shall be consulted.
   (G)   The words “such as”, “includes”, “including” and “specifically” shall
provide examples. These examples shall not, by themselves, limit a provision to
the examples specifically mentioned if other examples would otherwise comply
with the provision.
   (H)   The word “person” includes a firm, company, corporation, partnership,
trust, organization or association, as well as an individual.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.051 TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUT or ABUTTING. Areas of contiguous lots that share a common lot line,
except not including lots entirely separated by a street, public alley open to
traffic, or a perennial waterway. See definition of ADJACENT.
   ACADEMIC CLINICAL RESEARCH CENTER. An accredited medical school within the
Commonwealth that operates or partners with an acute care hospital licensed
within the Commonwealth.
   ACCESSORY APARTMENT. One dwelling unit that is created within part of a
principal dwelling or above a vehicle garage on a residential lot.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (INCLUDES ACCESSORY BUILDING). A structure serving a
purpose customarily incidental to and subordinate to the use of the principal
use and located on the same lot as the principal use. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
include, but are not limited to, a household garage, household storage shed,
detached carport, a household swimming pool or an accessory storage building to
a business use. An ACCESSORY BUILDING is any accessory structure that meets the
definition of a BUILDING. A portion of a principal building used for an
accessory use shall not be considered an ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use.
   ADJACENT. Two or more lots that share a common lot line or that are
separated only by a street or waterway from each other.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A use that has over 10% of the total floor area occupied by
items for sale or rent that are books, films, magazines, video tapes, coin- or
token-operated films or video tapes, paraphernalia, novelties or other
periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by a clear emphasis on
matter depicting, displaying, describing or relating to uncovered male or
female genitals or “specified sexual activities”. This shall include, but not
be limited to, materials that would be illegal to sell to persons under age 18
under state law. If such items are within a separate room, then the 10%
standard shall apply to the floor area of such room.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. A use including live entertainment
involving persons (which may include, but not be limited to, waiters,
waitresses, dancers, clerks, bartenders, contractors or others) displaying
uncovered male or female genitals or nude or almost nude female breasts or
engaging in simulated or actual “specified sexual activities” to three or more
persons and which is related to monetary compensation paid to the person or
entity operating the use or to persons involved in such activity.
   ADULT MOVIE THEATER. A use involving the on-site presentation to three or
more persons at one time of moving images distinguished by an emphasis on
depiction of “specified sexual activities” and that is related to monetary
compensation paid by the persons viewing such matter.
   ADULT USE. Adult bookstore, adult movie theater, adult live entertainment
facility/use or massage parlor. These terms shall be distinct types of uses,
and shall not be allowed as part of any other use.
   AFTER HOURS CLUB. A use that permits the consumption of alcoholic beverages
by five or more unrelated persons between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
and that involves some form of monetary compensation paid by such persons for
the alcohol or for the use of the premises.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized to store farm implements, hay,
feed, grain or other agricultural or horticultural products or to house
poultry, livestock or other farm animals, a milk house and a structure used to
grow mushrooms, agricultural or horticultural products. The term includes a
carriage house owned and used by members of a recognized religious sect for the
purposes of housing horses and storing buggies. The term includes a structure
that is less than 1,000 square feet in size which is utilized to process maple
sap. The term shall not include habitable space or spaces in which agricultural
products are processed, treated or packaged and shall not be construed to mean
a place of occupancy by the general public.
   AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY. Any of the following transported or intended to be
transported in commerce:
      (1)   Agricultural, aquacultural, horticultural, floricultural,
viticultural or dairy products.
      (2)   Livestock and the products of livestock.
      (3)   Ranch-based fur-bearing animals and the products of ranch-based
fur-bearing animals.
      (4)   The products of poultry or bee raising.
      (5)   Forestry or forestry products.
      (6)   Any products raised or produced on farms intended for human
consumption and the processed or manufactured products of such products
intended for human consumption.
   AIRPORT. An area and related support facilities used for the landing and
take-off of motorized aircraft that carry people. A PUBLIC AIRPORT shall be an
airport that does not meet the definition of a “private airport”. A PRIVATE
AIRPORT shall be limited to a maximum of ten total landings and take-offs in
any seven-day period, and shall not be available for use by the general public.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. A use involving 15 or more token- or coin-operated
entertainment machines, and where the machines are the principal use of the
property. This term shall not include an adult use.
   ANIMAL CEMETERY. A place used for the burial of the remains of five or more
non-cremated animals, other than customary burial of farm animals as accessory
to a livestock use.
   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. The raising and keeping of livestock or poultry beyond the
number and type allowed under §
155.075(C)(9), keeping animals or fowl, and beyond what is customarily
incidental to a principal “crop farming” use. ANIMAL HUSBANDRY shall not
include a slaughterhouse nor a stockyard used for the housing of animals
awaiting slaughter from two or more farms.
   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY, INTENSIVE.
      (1)   This term shall mean an animal husbandry use involving an average
of two or more “animal equivalent units” (see definition division (2) below) of
live weight per acre of livestock or poultry, on an annualized basis.
      (2)   An ANIMAL EQUIVALENT UNIT (AEU) is 1,000 pounds live weight of
livestock or poultry animals, regardless of the actual number of individual
animals comprising the unit. This weight is calculated on an annualized basis.
Note: the provisions of this zoning chapter are based upon acreage of a lot,
and not acreage that is available for disposal of wastes. (Note: two animal
equivalent units per acre would be roughly equal to 1.7 dairy cattle, 6.7
swine, ten sheep, 500 poultry or 400 rabbits per acre.)
   ANTENNA. An exterior device or apparatus designed for cellular, digital,
telephone, radio, pager, commercial mobile radio, wireless internet,
television, microwave or any other wireless communications through sending and/
or receiving of electromagnetic waves, including without limitation,
omnidirectional or whip antennas and directional or panel antennas. Unless
otherwise stated, this term shall not include standard antenna.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the base of the antenna support
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure, including any
antennas attached thereto or forming a part thereof. If the support structure
is on a sloped grade, then the average between the highest and lowest grades
shall be used in calculating the ANTENNA HEIGHT.
   ANTENNA, STANDARD. A device, partially or wholly exterior to a building,
that is used for receiving television or radio signals for use on-site, or for
transmitting short-wave or citizens band radio signals. See COMMERCIAL
COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING TYPES.
   APPLICANT. The definition in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code,
as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., shall apply.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. Coordinated and centrally managed rental housing
including self-contained units designed to provide a supportive environment and
to accommodate a relatively independent lifestyle. Such a development may
contain a limited number of supportive services, such as meals, transportation,
housekeeping, linen and organized social activities for residents and their
invited guests. Such a use shall primarily serve persons 55 and older, persons
with physical handicaps and/or the developmentally disabled. ASSISTED LIVING
FACILITIES shall be licensed as personal care centers by the commonwealth.
   AUTO, BOAT AND/OR MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SALES. This use is any area,
other than a street, used for the outdoor or indoor display, sale or rental of
two or more of the following in operable condition: motor vehicles; recreation
vehicles; boat trailers; farm machinery; motorcycles; trucks; utility trailers;
construction vehicles; boats; or transportable mobile/manufactured homes in a
livable condition. This use may include an auto repair garage as an accessory
use provided that all requirements of such use are complied with. This use
shall not include a mobile/manufactured home park (unless the requirements for
that use are also met) or a junkyard. See requirements in §
155.073(B)(4).
   AUTO REPAIR GARAGE. An area where repairs, improvements and installation of
parts and accessories for motor vehicles and/or boats are conducted that
involves work that is more intense in character than work permitted under the
definition of auto service station. An AUTO REPAIR GARAGE shall include, but
not be limited to, a use that involves any of the following work: major
mechanical or body work; straightening of body parts; painting; welding; or
rebuilding of transmissions. Any use permitted as part of an auto service
station is also permitted as part of an AUTO REPAIR GARAGE. This use shall not
include activity meeting the definition of a “truck stop”. See requirements in
§
155.073(B)(5).
   AUTO SERVICE STATION. An area where gasoline is dispensed into motor
vehicles, and where no repairs are conducted, except work that may be conducted
that is closely similar in character to the following: sale and installation of
oil, lubricants, batteries and belts and similar accessories and safety and
emission inspections; and sale of pre-packaged propane. This use may include a
convenience store, provided that all of the requirements for such use are also
met. A business that maintains an accessory use of providing motor fuel only
for use by vehicles operated by that business shall not, by itself, be
considered to be an AUTO SERVICE STATION. See storage limits and other
requirements in §
155.073(B)(6).
   BASAL AREA. The area in square feet per acre occupied by tree stems at 4.5
feet above the ground, normally measured by a calibrated prism or angle gauge.
   BASEMENT. An enclosed level of a building that is not a “story” and that is
partly underground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST, INN. A dwelling and/or its accessory structure which
includes the rental of overnight sleeping accommodations and bathroom access
for temporary overnight guests, and that meets the maximum number of overnight
guests specified in §
155.074(E)(7) for this use, and which does not provide any cooking facilities
for actual use by guests, and which only provides meals to overnight guests,
employees and residents of the dwelling. Overnight stays shall be restricted to
transient visitors to the area, employees and their family. See requirements in
§
155.074(E)(7).
   BETTING USE. A place used for lawful gambling activities, including but not
limited to off-track pari-mutual betting and any use of electronic gambling
devices. This term shall not regulate state lottery sales or lawful small games
of chance.
   BILLBOARD. A type of off-premises sign. See §§
155.135 through
155.146.
   BOARDING HOUSE (INCLUDES ROOMING HOUSE).
      (1)   A residential use in which:
         (a)   Room(s) that do not meet the definition of a lawful dwelling
unit are rented for habitation; or
         (b)   A dwelling unit includes greater than the permitted maximum
number of unrelated persons.
      (2)   A BOARDING HOUSE shall not include a use that meets the definition
of a hotel, dormitory, motel, life care center, personal care center, bed and
breakfast inn, group home or nursing home. A college fraternity or sorority
house used as a residence shall be considered a type of BOARDING HOUSE. A
BOARDING HOUSE may either involve or not involve the providing of meals to
residents, but shall not include a restaurant open to the public unless the use
also meets the requirements for a restaurant. A BOARDING HOUSE shall primarily
serve persons residing on-site for five or more consecutive days.
   BUFFER YARD.
      (1)   A strip of land that:
         (a)   Separates one use from another use or feature; and
         (b)   Is not occupied by any building, parking, outdoor storage or any
use other than open space or approved pedestrian pathways.
      (2)   A BUFFER YARD may be a part of the minimum setback distance, but
land within an existing or future street right-of-way shall not be used to meet
a buffer yard requirement. See §
155.092.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a permanent roof and walls and that is
intended for the shelter, work area, housing or enclosure of persons, animals,
vehicles, equipment or materials and that has a total area under roof of
greater than 50 cubic feet. BUILDING is interpreted as including “or part
thereof”. See the separate definition of STRUCTURE. Any structure involving a
permanent roof (such as a covered porch or a carport) that is attached to a
principal building shall be considered to be part of that principal building.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The percentage obtained by dividing the total horizontal
area covered by all buildings on a lot by the total lot area of a lot. For the
purposes of this definition, BUILDING COVERAGE shall include all buildings that
are under a roof.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average of the finished
ground level adjoining a building at all exterior walls to the average height
of the highest roof surface. The finished ground level shall not slope away
from a building wall in such a manner that it is not possible to position a
ladder for fire rescue.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building used for the conduct of the principal use of
a lot, and which is not an accessory building.
   BUILDING WIDTH. The horizontal measurement between two vertical structural
walls that are generally parallel of one building, measured in one direction
that is most closely parallel to the required lot width. For attached housing,
this WIDTH shall be the width of each dwelling unit, measured from the center
of each interior party wall and from the outside of any exterior wall. For
detached buildings, this WIDTH shall be measured from the outside of exterior
walls.
   BULK RECYCLING CENTER. A use involving the bulk commercial collection,
separation and/or processing of types of waste materials found in the typical
household or office for some productive reuse, but which does not involve the
actual processing or recycling of hazardous or toxic substances, and which does
not primarily involve the processing of nonrecycled solid waste, unless the use
also meets the applicable requirements for a solid waste transfer facility.
This definition shall not include a junkyard.
   CAMP. An area that includes facilities and structures for primarily outdoor
recreational activities by organized groups, and/or that involves overnight
stays within seasonal cabins or temporary tents by organized groups and/or
transient visitors to the area. This term shall only include facilities that
are primarily used during warmer months, and which have a maximum impervious
coverage of 5%. This term shall not include a recreational vehicle campground.
   CAMPGROUND. A development under single ownership of the land with sites
being rented, leased or sold through time-share for use for tents or
recreational vehicle sites for transient visitors to the area, and which may
include associated recreational facilities.
   CAMPGROUND, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A type of campground that involves persons
temporarily living within recreational vehicles.
   CAREGIVER. The individual designated by a patient to deliver medical
marijuana.
   CEMETERY. A place used for the burial of two or more non-cremated humans.
   CERTIFIED MEDICAL USE. The acquisition, possession, use or transportation of
medical marijuana by a patient, or the acquisition, possession, delivery,
transportation or administration of medical marijuana by a caregiver, for use
as part of the treatment of the patient’s serious medical condition, as
authorized by certification by the Commonwealth.
   CHRISTMAS TREE FARM or TREE FARM. A type of crop farming involving the
raising and harvesting of evergreen trees for commercial purposes. Trees that
were grown on the premises may be sold. See also §
155.022(G)(1)(c).
   CHURCH. See PLACES OF WORSHIP.
   CLEAR CUTTING. A logging method that removes all trees or the vast majority
of trees from a mostly wooded area.
   CLINICAL REGISTRANT. An entity that:
      (1)   Holds a permit as a grower/processor and a dispensary; and
      (2)   Has a contractual relationship with an academic clinical research
center under which the academic clinical research center or its affiliate
provides advice to the entity, regarding, among other areas, patient health and
safety, medical applications, and dispensing and management of controlled
substances.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS TOWER OR ANTENNA. See WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. The C and VC Districts.
   COMMERCIAL STABLE OR RIDING ACADEMY. An agricultural building for the
housing of horses where equestrian instruction is offered, horses are kept,
bred, trained, and/or exercised.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Includes, but is not limited to, retail sales, offices,
personal services, auto sales, auto repair garages and other uses of a similar
profit-making non-industrial nature. The sale of goods or services from a
vehicle on a lot shall also be considered to be a COMMERCIAL USE.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A use that exists solely to provide primarily indoor
leisure and educational activities and programs and meeting space to members of
the surrounding community and/or certain age groups, and which does not involve
substantial use of machinery or noise producing equipment. The use also may
include the preparation and/or provision of meals to low-income elderly
persons, as accessory to leisure activities. This shall not include residential
uses or a treatment center.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Southwestern Lehigh County Comprehensive Plan, as
amended.
   CONDOMINIUM. A set of individual dwelling units or other areas of buildings
each owned by an individual person(s) in fee simple, with such owners assigned
a proportionate interest in the remainder of the real estate which is
designated for common ownership, and which is created under the Pennsylvania
Uniform Condominium Act of 1980, 68 Pa.C.S. §§ 3101 et seq. or Uniform Planned
Community Act of 1996, 68 Pa.C.S. §§ 5101 et seq., as amended.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A legal agreement granted by a property owner that
strictly limits the types and amounts of development that may take place on
such property. Such EASEMENT shall restrict the original and all subsequent
property owners, lessees and all other users of the land.
   CONSERVATION/OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT OPTION. An optional type of residential
development that involves the permanent preservation of preserved open space,
and that places dwellings on the most suitable portions of a tract, on lots
that are typically smaller than would otherwise be allowed with conventional
development.
   CONTIGUOUS LOTS. Adjacent parcels of land, including parcels separated by a
stream or road.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A use that primarily sells routine household goods,
groceries, prepared ready-to-eat foods and similar miscellaneous items to the
general public, but that is not primarily a restaurant, and that includes a
building with a floor area of less than 7,000 square feet. A CONVENIENCE STORE
involving the sale of gasoline shall be regulated as an auto service station.
   COORDINATED ZONING ALONG MUNICIPAL BORDERS. A parcel or parcels of land to
be used for residential development designed to coordinate zoning uses along
municipal borders to avoid conflicting land uses and to encourage a mixture of
housing of varying sizes and density to allow for seamless, rather than shock,
transition between different uses.
   COORDINATED ZONING ALONG MUNICIPAL BORDERS DEVELOPMENT OPTION. An optional
type of residential development along municipal borders designed to coordinate
zoning uses along municipal borders to avoid conflicting land uses and to
encourage a mixture of housing of varying sizes and densities to allow for
seamless, rather than shock, transition between different uses,
   CRAFTS OR ARTISAN’S STUDIO. A use involving the creation, display and sale
of arts and crafts, such as paintings, sculpture and fabric crafts. The
creation of arts and crafts may also be permitted within a home occupation,
provided the requirements for such use are met.
   CROP FARMING. The raising of products of the soil and accessory storage of
these products. This term shall include orchards, tree farms, wineries, plant
nurseries, raising of fish, greenhouses and keeping of animals in numbers that
are routinely accessory and incidental to a principal crop farming use. See
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY.
   CURATIVE AMENDMENT. A process provided in the Pennsylvania Municipalities
Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. that authorizes certain types of
challenges to a zoning chapter.
   DAY CARE, CHILD.
      (1)   A use involving the supervised care of children under age 16
outside of the children’s own home(s) primarily for periods of less than 18
hours per child during the average day. This use may also include educational
programs that are supplementary to state-required education, including “nursery
school” or “Head Start” programs. See also the definition of ADULT DAY CARE
CENTER.
      (2)   The following three types of DAY CARE are permitted without
regulation by this chapter:
         (a)   Care of children by their own “relatives”;
         (b)   Care of children within a place of worship during regularly
scheduled religious services; and
         (c)   Care of one to three children within any dwelling unit, in
addition to children who are “relatives” of the caregiver.
      (3)   CHILD DAY CARE CENTER. A type of day care use that:
         (a)   Provides care for seven or more children at any one time who are
not “relatives” of the primary caregiver;
         (b)   Does not occur within a dwelling unit;
         (c)   Does not meet the definition of a group day care home; and
         (d)   Is registered with the applicable state agency.* See §§
155.065 through
155.075.
      (4)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME (OR CHILD DAY CARE AS AN ACCESSORY USE). A
type of “day care” use that:
         (a)   Is accessory to and occurs within a dwelling unit; and
         (b)   Provides care for four to six children at one time who are not
“relatives” of the primary caregiver.
      (5)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A type of day care use that:
         (a)   Provides care for between seven and 12 children at one time who
are not “relatives” of the primary caregiver;
         (b)   Provides care within a dwelling unit; and
         (c) Is registered with the applicable state agency.*
      (6)   * Note: as of the adoption date of this chapter, such agency was
the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare. See also child day care facility
requirements in the Uniform Construction Code.
   DAY CARE CENTER, ADULT. A use providing supervised care and assistance to
persons who need such daily assistance because of their old age or
disabilities. This use shall not include persons who need oversight because of
behavior that is criminal, violent or related to substance abuse. This use may
involve occasional overnight stays, but shall not primarily be a residential
use. The use shall involve typical stays of less than a total of 60 hours per
week per person.
   DENSITY. The total number of dwelling units proposed on a lot divided by the
lot area, unless otherwise stated.
   DEP. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and its
relevant bureaus.
   DISPENSARY. A person, including a natural person, corporation, partnership,
association, trust or other entity, or any combination thereof, which holds a
permit issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Health to dispense medical
marijuana.
   DISTRICT (OR ZONING DISTRICT). A land area within the township within which
certain uniform regulations and requirements apply under the provisions of this
chapter.
   DORMITORY. A building used as living quarters for the exclusive use of bona
fide full-time faculty or students of an accredited college or university or
primary or secondary school, and which is owned by and on the same lot as such
college, university or school.
   DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE. An establishment where at least a portion of patrons
are served while the patrons remain in their motor vehicles.
   DWELLING. A building used as non-transient living quarters, but not
including a boarding house, hotel, motel, hospital, nursing home or dormitory.
A DWELLING may include a use that meets the definition of a sectional home.
   DWELLING TYPES. This definition categorizes dwellings into the following
types:
      (1)   APARTMENTS OR MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS. Two or more dwelling units
within a building that do not meet the definition of a single-family detached
dwelling, twin dwelling or townhouse/rowhouse. The individual dwelling units
may be leased or sold for condominium ownership. If a building only includes
two apartments, it shall be considered to be a TWO-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING.
      (2)   CONVERSION APARTMENT. A new dwelling unit created within an
existing building within the standards of §§
155.090 through
155.099 and where permitted by §§
155.065 through
155.075 and meeting the floor area requirements of §
155.090.
      (3)   SECTIONAL OR MODULAR HOME. A type of dwelling that meets a
definition of any dwelling type and which was manufactured off-site and then
assembled and completed on the site, and that was constructed under the
Township Construction Codes and not the federal requirements for manufactured
housing.
      (4)   SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING.
         (a)   One dwelling unit in one building accommodating only one family
and having open yard areas on all sides.
         (b)   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME.
            1.   For a dwelling constructed after 1977, this term shall mean a
dwelling that was constructed under the federal construction requirements for
manufactured housing under regulations of the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development. For a dwelling constructed before 1977, this term shall mean
a type of single-family detached dwelling that meets all of the following
requirements:
               a.   Is transportable in a single piece, or two substantial
pieces designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of again being
separated for towing;
               b.   Is designed for permanent occupancy;
               c.   Which arrives at a site complete and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations;
               d.   Is constructed so that it may be used with or without a
permanent foundation; and
               e.   Is not a recreation vehicle.
            2.   The terms MOBILE HOME and MANUFACTURED HOME have the same
meaning. This term is different from a SECTIONAL HOME, which is defined above.
      (5)   TOWNHOUSE or ROWHOUSE. One dwelling unit that is attached to two or
more dwelling units, and with each dwelling unit being completely separated
from and attached to each other by unpierced vertical fire resistant walls.
Each dwelling unit shall have its own outside access. Side yards shall be
adjacent to each end unit.
      (6)   TWIN DWELLING UNIT. One dwelling unit accommodating one family that
is attached to and completely separated by a vertical unpierced fire resistant
wall to only one additional dwelling unit. One side yard shall be adjacent to
each dwelling unit. Each unit may or may not be on a separate lot from the
attached dwelling unit.
      (7)   TWO-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING (DUPLEX). A building that includes two
apartment dwellings and which is not a twin dwelling.
   DWELLING UNIT.
      (1)   A single habitable living unit occupied by only one family. (See
definition of FAMILY.)
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall have:
         (a)   Its own toilet, bath or shower, sink, sleeping and cooking
facilities; and
         (b)   Separate access to the outside or to a common hallway or balcony
that connects to outside access at ground level.
      (3)   A DWELLING UNIT shall not include two or more separate living areas
that are completely separated by interior walls so as to prevent interior
access from one living area to another, unless approved as unit for care of
relative.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES STATION. A building for the housing of fire, emergency
medical or police equipment and for related activities. This use may include
housing for emergency personnel while on-call.
   EMPLOYEES. The highest number of workers (including both part-time and full-
time, both compensated and volunteer, and both employees and contractors)
present on a lot at any one time, other than clearly temporary and occasional
persons working on physical improvements to the site.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES or ESSENTIAL PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. Utility or
municipal uses that are necessary for the preservation of the public health and
safety and that are routine, customary and appropriate to the character of the
area in which they are to be located. ESSENTIAL SERVICES shall include the
following and closely similar facilities: sanitary sewage lines; water lines;
electric distribution lines; stormwater management facilities; cable television
lines; natural gas distribution lines; fire hydrants; street lights; and
traffic signals. ESSENTIAL SERVICES shall not include a central sewage
treatment plant, a solid waste disposal area or facility, commercial
communications towers, a power generating station, septic or sludge disposal,
offices, storage of trucks or equipment or bulk storage of materials.
   FAMILY. One or more individuals related by blood, marriage or adoption
(including persons receiving formal foster care) or up to four unrelated
individuals who maintain a common household and live within one dwelling unit.
A FAMILY shall also expressly include numbers of unrelated persons provided by
the group home provisions residing within a licensed group home, as defined
herein. Through those provisions and §
155.029(D)(5), the township’s intent is to comply with the Federal Fair Housing
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as amended.
   FARM. A lot used for the raising of agricultural commodities or dairy
products and/or the raising of livestock or poultry for commercial purposes.
This term may include one dwelling unit, buildings used for the agricultural
activities and the storage of equipment used for the agricultural activities.
   FENCE. A human-made barrier placed or arranged as a line of demarcation, an
enclosure or a visual barrier that is constructed of wood, chain-link metal,
vinyl or aluminum and/or plastic inserts. Human-made barriers constructed
principally of masonry, concrete, cinder block or similar materials shall be
considered a WALL.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An establishment primarily involved with loans and
monetary, not material, transactions and that has routine interactions with the
public.
   FLOODPLAIN. See definitions of this term and related terms in the township
floodplain regulations, as codified in Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
   FLOOR AREA, TOTAL.
      (1)   The total floor space within a building(s) measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls or from the centerlines of walls separating
buildings.
      (2)   FLOOR AREA shall specifically include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Fully enclosed porches; and
         (b)   Basement or cellar or attic space that is potentially habitable
and has a minimum head clearance of at least six and one-half feet.
      (3)   FLOOR AREA shall not include unenclosed structures.
   FOREST TECHNICIAN. A person who has a two-year degree in forestry from a
two-year school of forestry associated with or accredited by the Society of
American Foresters.
   FORESTRY. The management of forests and timberlands when practiced in
accordance with accepted silvicultural principles, through developing,
cultivating, harvesting, transporting and selling trees for commercial
purposes, and which does not involve any land development. See TIMBER
HARVESTING.
   FORM OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA. The characteristics of the medical marijuana
recommended or limited for the particular patient, including the method of
consumption and any particular dosage, strain, variety and quantity or
percentage of medical marijuana or particular active ingredient.
   GARAGE SALE. The accessory use of any lot for the occasional sale or auction
of only common household goods and furniture and items of a closely similar
character.
   GLARE. A sensation of brightness within the visual field which causes
annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual performance, visibility and/or ability
to focus.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITY, OTHER THAN TOWNSHIP-OWNED. A use owned by a government,
government agency or government authority for valid public health, public
safety, recycling collection or similar governmental purpose, and which is not
owned by the township or an authority created solely by the township. This term
shall not include uses listed separately in the table of uses in §§
155.068 through
155.075, such as publicly owned recreation. This term shall not include a
prison.
   GROUP HOME.
      (1)   A dwelling unit operated by a responsible individual, family or
organization with a program to provide a supportive living arrangement for
individuals where special care is needed by the persons served due to age,
emotional, mental, developmental or physical disability. This definition shall
expressly include facilities for the supervised care of persons with
disabilities subject to protection under the Federal Fair Housing Act as
amended. Group homes must be licensed where required by any appropriate
government agencies, and a copy of any such license must be delivered to the
Zoning Officer prior to the initiation of the use. A GROUP HOME typically
involves an individual residing on the premises for more than 30 days at a
time.
      (2)   GROUP HOMES shall be subject to the same limitations and
regulations by the township as the type of dwelling unit they occupy.
      (3)   It is the express intent of the township to comply with all
provisions of the Federal Fair Housing Act, as amended, and regulations
promulgated thereunder, in the construction of this term.
      (4)   A GROUP HOME shall not include a treatment center.
      (5)   (a)   *Note: The Federal Fair Housing Act Amendments defined
HANDICAP as follows:
            1.   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
            2.   A record of having such an impairment; or
            3.   Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term
does not include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance
as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802.
         (b)   This definition was subsequently adjusted by § 512 of the
Americans With Disabilities Act to address certain situations related to
substance abuse treatment.
   GROWER/PROCESSOR. A person, including a natural person, corporation,
partnership, association, trust or other entity, or any combination thereof,
which holds a permit from the Pennsylvania Department of Health to grow and
process medical marijuana.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
      (1)   A product or waste, or combination of substances that because of
the quantity, concentration, physical or infectious characteristics, if not
properly treated, stored, transported, used or disposed of, or otherwise
managed, would create a potential threat to public health through direct or
indirect introduction into ground water resources and the subsurface
environment which includes the soil and all subsequent materials located below.
      (2)   Such hazardous material includes, but is not limited to, materials
which are included on the latest edition of one or more of the following lists:
         (a)   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES as defined pursuant to § 311 of the Federal
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1321, or its successor provisions; and
         (B)   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES as defined pursuant to the Federal
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq., or its successor provisions.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES, EXTREMELY. Hazardous substances included on the list
of extremely hazardous substances in 40 C.F.R. Part 355, or its successor
provisions and that are stored or used in quantities above the threshold
reportable limits in such regulations.
   HEIGHT. See BUILDING HEIGHT. To measure the height of any structure that is
not a building, it shall be the total vertical distance from the average
elevation of the proposed ground level to the highest point of a structure. For
height of signs, see §§
155.135 through
155.146.
   HELIPORT. An area used for the take-off and landing of helicopters, and
related support facilities. A PRIVATE HELIPORT shall be limited to 15 total
take-offs and landings in any seven-day period, and which is not open to the
general public. A PUBLIC HELIPORT is one that does not meet the definition of a
PRIVATE HELIPORT.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   A routine, accessory and customary nonresidential use conducted
within or administered from a portion of a dwelling or its permitted accessory
building and that meets all of the HOME OCCUPATION requirements.
      (2)   A MINOR HOME OCCUPATION shall be a HOME OCCUPATION that meets the
additional requirements for a MINOR HOME OCCUPATION. The term MINOR HOME
OCCUPATION includes, but is not limited to, the term no-impact home occupation
as defined in the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§
10101 et seq.
      (3)   A MAJOR HOME OCCUPATION shall be a HOME OCCUPATION that does not
meet the requirements for a MINOR HOME OCCUPATION.
      (4)   Note: in most cases, under §
155.068, a MINOR HOME OCCUPATION is permitted by right, while a MAJOR HOME
OCCUPATION typically needs special exception approval from the Zoning Hearing
Board.
   HOSPITAL. A use involving the diagnosis, treatment or other medical care of
humans that includes, but is not limited to, care requiring stays overnight. A
medical care use that does not involve any stays overnight shall be considered
an OFFICE. A HOSPITAL may involve care and rehabilitation for medical, dental
or mental health, but shall not primarily include housing or treatment of the
criminally insane or persons actively serving an official sentence after being
convicted of a felony. A HOSPITAL may also involve medical research and
training for health care professionals.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or buildings including rooms rented out to
persons as clearly transient and temporary living quarters. Any such use that
customarily involves the housing of persons for periods of time longer than 90
days shall be considered a boarding house and shall meet the requirements of
that use. See BED AND BREAKFAST USE. A HOTEL or MOTEL may also include a
restaurant, meeting rooms, nightclub, newsstand, amusement arcade, gift shop,
swim club, exercise facilities, tavern and similar customary accessory
amenities, and provided any such use shall only be allowed as a principal use
of the property if such use is allowed by the applicable district regulations.
   HUNTING AND FISHING CLUB. Land owned by an organized group of persons formed
as a club that is used for hunting, fishing and similar types of passive
recreation, and which involves no buildings except those for the recreational,
lodging, eating and sanitary facilities for members and invited guests and
routinely accessory storage buildings.
   IDENTIFICATION CARD. A document issued by the Pennsylvania Department of
Health that permits access to medical marijuana.
   IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE.
      (1)   The percentage that results from dividing the land area on a lot
covered by all impervious surfaces by the total land area of the lot.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACES shall be defined as areas covered by buildings, paving or
concrete, or other human-made surfaces that have a runoff coefficient of 0.85
or greater. Areas of stone regularly used for vehicle parking and movement
shall be considered impervious for the purposes of restricting impervious
coverage under the zoning ordinance.
      (2)    For a townhouse development, the MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE may
be measured as a maximum for the entire development after completion, after the
deletion of street rights-of way (or cartway where a street right-of-way does
not exist), as opposed to regulating each individual townhouse lot.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. The I Zoning District.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream whose water flow normally occurs in the wetter
parts of the year (October through April) or following major streams events.
   JUNK.
      (1)   Any discarded, unusable, scrap or abandoned human-made or human-
processed material or articles stored outside of a completely enclosed building
and which covers over 200 square feet of land area.
      (2)   Examples of JUNK include: scrap metal; used furniture; used
appliances; used motor vehicle parts; worn-out machinery and equipment; used
containers; and scrap building materials.
      (3)   JUNK shall not include:
         (a)   Solid waste temporarily stored in an appropriate container that
is routinely awaiting imminent collection and proper disposal;
         (b)   Toxic substances;
         (c)   Yard waste or tree trunks;
         (d)   Items clearly awaiting imminent recycling at an appropriate
location;
         (e)   Building materials awaiting imminent use at an on-going
building; or
         (f)   Clean fill as defined by state environmental regulations.
   JUNK VEHICLE.
      (1)   Includes any vehicle or trailer that meets any of the following
conditions:
         (A)   Cannot be moved under its own power, in regards to a vehicle
designed to move under its own power, other than a vehicle clearly needing only
minor repairs;
         (b)   Cannot be towed, in regards to a trailer designed to be towed;
         (c)   Has been demolished beyond repair;
         (d)   Has been separated from its axles, engine, body or chassis; and/
or
         (e)   Includes only the axle, engine, body parts and/or chassis,
separated from the remainder of the vehicle.
      (2)   See the definition of UNLICENSED VEHICLE.
   JUNKYARD.
      (1)   Land or a structure used for the collection, storage, dismantling,
processing and/or sale, other than within a completely enclosed building, of
material of one or more of the following types:
         (a)   Junk (see definition) covering more than 1% of the lot area;
         (b)   Two or more “junk vehicles” that are partly or fully visible
from an exterior lot line, dwelling and/or public street. This shall not apply
to such vehicles stored as part of an auto repair garage or auto service
station within the requirements of §
155.073(B)(5) and (B)(6); and
         (c)   One or more mobile/manufactured homes that are not in a
habitable condition.
      (2)   Junk stored within a completely enclosed building for business
purposes shall be considered a WAREHOUSE.
      (3)   A JUNKYARD specifically shall include, but not be limited to, a
metal scrap yard or auto salvage yard. See any township code that regulates
unlicensed and inoperable vehicles on lots and the State Vehicle Code, being 75
Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq. for unlicensed vehicles parked on a street.
   KENNEL. The keeping of a greater number of dogs and/or cats than are
permitted under the keeping of animals or fowl provisions of §
155.075, and which may also include temporary keeping of other household pets.
In addition, in any case, if six or more dogs age six months or older are kept,
it shall be considered a KENNEL.
   LANDING. A place where logs are assembled for transportation in loads.
   LANDOWNER. The owner of a legal or equitable interest in land, including the
holder of a written, signed and active option or contract to purchase or a
person leasing the property (if authorized under the lease to exercise the
right of the landowner) or authorized officers of a partnership or corporation
that is a LANDOWNER.
   LIGHTING, DIFFUSED. Illumination that passes from the source through a
translucent cover or shade.
   LITTER. Discarded items not naturally occurring on the site (i.e., tires,
oil cans, etc.).
   LOGGING PLAN. A written description with a map of a specific logging
operation prepared before the operation commences.
   LOPPING. To cut tops and slash into smaller pieces to allow material to
settle close to the ground.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit. The term LOT shall mean a lot of record according to official county
records. If lands are separated by a street, then each side of the street shall
be considered a separate LOT. The area and depth of a lot shall be measured to
the legal right-of-way line of the street, and all lots shall front on public
or private streets.
   LOT AREA.
      (1)   The horizontal land area contained within the lot lines of a lot
(measured in acres or square feet).
      (2)   For the purposes of determining compliance with the MINIMUM LOT
AREA, the following shall be excluded:
         (a)   1.   Areas within the “existing” legal rights-of-way of:
               a.   Any proposed or existing public streets or alleys; or
               b.   Any proposed or existing commonly maintained private
streets that serve more than one lot.
            2.   Note: other sections of this chapter, such as townhouse
development, may specifically permit proposed streets to be included in
determining density for a specific use.
         (b)   Areas that are currently or will be required to be dedicated as
common or preserved open space on a separate lot. Note: other sections of this
chapter, such as conservation/open space development option, may specifically
permit proposed common open spaces to be included in determining density for a
specific use; and
         (c)   Features required to be excluded from LOT AREA under §§
155.065 through
155.075.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on two or more intersecting streets which has an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees at the intersection of right-of-way
lines of two streets.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot. Wherever a property line
borders a public street, for the purposes of determining setbacks, the lot line
shall be considered to be the street right-of-way line that will exist at the
time of completion of a subdivision or development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1094.jpg]
 
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE (STREET LINE). A lot line separating the lot from
the existing or proposed street right-of-way. For a corner lot, see §
155.092(B)(1).
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. Any lot line which is parallel to or within 45
degrees of being parallel to a front street right-of-way line. In the case of a
lot having no street frontage, or a lot of an odd shape, or a flag lot, only
the one lot line furthest from any street shall be considered a REAR LOT LINE.
Every lot shall have a rear yard.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the minimum prescribed front yard setback line, unless otherwise stated. In the
event of a curved lot line, such lot width at the minimum prescribed front yard
setback line shall be measured along the curve. Where buildings are permitted
to be attached, the lot width shall be measured from the center of the party
wall. Where a pie-shaped lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac, the minimum lot width
may be reduced to 75% of the width that would otherwise be required.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. A type of adult use that is an establishment that meets all
of the following criteria:
      (1)   Massages are conducted involving one person using his or her hands
and/or a mechanical device on another person below the waist, in return for
monetary compensation, and which does not involve persons who are related to
each other;
      (2)   The use does not involve a person licensed or certified by the
state as a health care professional or a massage therapist certified by a
recognized professional organization that requires a minimum of 80 hours of
professional training. Massage therapy by a certified professional shall be
considered “personal service”;
      (3)   The massages are not conducted within a licensed hospital or
nursing home or an office of a medical doctor or chiropractor or as an
incidental accessory use to a permitted exercise club or high school or college
athletic program; and
      (4)   The massages are conducted within private or semi-private rooms.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana for certified medical use as legally permitted
by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania under Act 16.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DELIVERY VEHICLE OFFICE. Any facility used to house
delivery vehicles for supplying marijuana plants or seeds to one or more
marijuana grower/processor and/or dispensaries.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA ORGANIZATION OR FACILITY. A dispensary or a grower/
processor of marijuana for medical purposes.
   MEMBERSHIP CLUB. An area of land or building routinely used by a
recreational, civic, social, fraternal, religious, political or labor union
association of persons for meetings and routine socializing and recreation that
is limited to members and their occasional guests, and persons specifically
invited to special celebrations, but which is not routinely open to members of
the general public and which is not primarily operated as a for-profit
business.
      (1)   This use shall not include a target range for outdoor shooting of
firearms, boarding house, tavern, restaurant or retail sales unless that
particular use is permitted in that district and the requirements of that use
are met.
      (2)   See also AFTER HOURS CLUB and HUNTING AND FISHING CLUBS, which are
distinct uses.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal from the surface or beneath the surface of
the land of bulk mineral resources using significant machinery. This use also
includes accessory stockpiling and processing of mineral resources. MINERAL
EXTRACTION includes, but is not limited to, the extraction of sand, gravel,
topsoil, limestone, sandstone, oil, coal, clay, shale and iron ore. The routine
movement of and replacement of topsoil during construction shall not by itself
be considered to be mineral extraction.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME. See under DWELLING TYPES.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A lot under single ownership which includes
two or more mobile/manufactured homes for residential use. The individual
manufactured homes may be individually owned. A development of mobile/
manufactured homes that is subdivided into individual lots shall be regulated
in the same manner as a subdivision of site-built homes, and shall not be
considered to be a MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. An automobile, recreational vehicle, truck, bus, motorcycle,
all-terrain vehicle or similar means of transportation designed to operate
carry persons or cargo on roads and that is powered by mechanized means.
    MUNICIPALITIES PLANNING CODE or STATE PLANNING CODE. The Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, as reenacted and amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101
et seq.
   NIGHTCLUB. An establishment that offers amplified live music performances or
amplified music for dancing after 12:00 a.m. midnight, sells alcoholic
beverages primarily for on-site consumption, includes hours open to patrons
after 12:00 a.m. midnight, and has a building capacity of over 200 persons.
   NON-COMMERCIAL TIMBER STAND IMPROVEMENT. A practice in which the quality of
the residual forest stand is improved by removing the less desirable trees,
vines, and occasionally large shrubs to obtain the preferred stocking of the
best quality trees. It can also include such practices as tree pruning. A non-
commercial timber stand improvement is involved with the removal of the above-
mentioned trees, etc. but does not yield a net income, usually because the
trees cut are too small, poor quality, or not marketable.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot which does not conform with the minimum lot width
or area dimensions specified for the district where such lot is situated, but
was lawfully in existence prior to the effective date of this chapter, or
amendments hereinafter enacted.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure or part of a structure that does not
comply with the applicable lot coverage, dimensional and other provisions in
this chapter, as amended, where such structure lawfully existed prior to the
enactment of such ordinance or applicable amendment(s). Such NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, signs.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use, whether of land or of a structure, which does not
comply with the applicable use provisions in this chapter or amendment(s),
where such use was lawfully in existence prior to the enactment of this chapter
or applicable amendment(s). A use granted by variance is not a NONCONFORMING
USE.
   NURSING HOME. A facility licensed by the state for the housing and
intermediate or fully skilled nursing care of three or more persons.
   OFFICE. A use that involves administrative, clerical, financial,
governmental or professional operations and operations of a similar character.
This use shall include neither retail nor industrial uses, but may include
business offices, medical offices, laboratories, photographic studios, and/or
television or radio broadcasting studios.
   OPEN SPACE, PRESERVED OR COMMON. A parcel or parcels of land within a tract
which meets all of the following standards:
      (1)   Is designed, intended and suitable for active or passive recreation
by residents of a development or the general public;
      (2)   Is covered by a system that ensures perpetual maintenance, if not
intended to be publicly owned;
      (3)   Will be deeded to the township and/or preserved by a deed
restriction or conservation easement to permanently prevent uses of land other
than “preserved open space” and noncommercial recreation; and
      (4)   Does not use any of the following areas to meet minimum preserved
open space requirements:
         (a)   Existing street rights-of-way;
         (b)   Access easements and rights-of-way;
         (c)   Vehicle streets or driveways providing access to other lots;
         (d)   Land beneath building(s) or land within 20 feet of a building
other than agricultural buildings and a farmstead which are permitted within
land approved by the township for agricultural preservation);
         (e)   Off-street parking (other than that clearly intended for use to
access the open space area);
         (f)   Area(s) needed to meet a requirement for an individual lot;
         (g)   For land intended to be open to the public, that does not have
provisions for entry with a 50-foot minimum width by pedestrians from a street
open to the public or from adjacent preserved open space that has access to
such a street;
         (h)   Land that includes any stormwater management facilities (other
than a stormwater management system required by an agricultural conservation
plan for the agricultural use);
         (i)   Portions of land that have a width or length less than 100 feet,
and an area of less than 21,780 square feet (one-half acre);
         (j)   Areas that are under water during normal weather conditions
(streams, creeks, wetlands, floodways); and
         (k)   Areas that are under electric transmission lines that are
designed for a capacity of 35 kilovolts or greater.
      (5)   Each square foot of preserved open space that is of 25% or greater
slopes and each square foot within the 100-year floodplain shall only count as
one-quarter square foot for the purposes of determining the amount of PRESERVED
OPEN SPACE.
   PA. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   PARKING. Off-street parking and aisles for vehicle movement unless otherwise
stated.
   PENNDOT. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, or its successor,
and its subparts.
   PENNSYLVANIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH. DOH.
   PERMITTED BY RIGHT USES. Allowed uses in which zoning matters may be
approved by the Zoning Officer, provided the application complies with all
requirements of the zoning chapter. A nonconforming use shall not be considered
to be a PERMITTED BY RIGHT USE, a special exception use or a conditional use.
   PERSONAL CARE HOME OR CENTER. Means assisted living facility.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. An establishment that provides a service oriented to
personal needs of the general public and which does not involve primarily
retail or wholesale sales or services to businesses. PERSONAL SERVICES include
barber and beauty shops, photography studios, travel agency, shoe repair shops,
household appliance repair shops and other similar establishments, but shall
not include any adult uses, as herein defined.
   PETS, KEEPING OF. The keeping of domesticated animals of types that are
normally considered to be kept in conjunction with a dwelling for the pleasures
of the resident family. This shall include dogs, cats, small birds, gerbils,
rabbits and other animals commonly sold in retail pet shops.
   PICNIC GROVE, COMMERCIAL. An area of open space and pavilions that is not
publicly owned and is used for group picnics and related outdoor recreation,
and which is used on a commercial basis.
   PLACES OF WORSHIP. Buildings, synagogues, churches, religious retreats,
monasteries, seminaries and shrines used primarily for religious and/or
spiritual worship for more than ten persons at a time and that are operated for
nonprofit and noncommercial purposes. If a religious use is primarily
residential in nature, it shall be regulated under the appropriate dwelling
type.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A principal structure which is also a building.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The structure in which the principal use of a lot is
conducted. Any structure that is physically attached to a principal structure
shall be considered part of that PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE.
   PRINCIPAL USE. A dominant use(s) or main use on a lot, as opposed to an
accessory use.
   PRISON. A correctional institution within which persons are required to
inhabit by criminal court actions or as the result of a criminal arrest.
   PROFESSIONAL FORESTER. A person who has a B.S. or higher degree in forestry
from a four-year school of forestry associated with or accredited by the
Society of American Foresters.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Notice required by the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. (See definition in § 107 (53 P.S. §§
10107) of such law.)
   PUBLICLY OWNED RECREATION. Leisure facilities owned, operated or maintained
by governmental entities for use by the general public. PUBLICLY OWNED
RECREATION is a distinct use from indoor recreation or outdoor recreation.
   RECREATION. The offering of leisure-time activities to unrelated persons.
This term shall not include any adult use. For the purposes of this chapter,
recreation facilities shall be permitted by right as an accessory use when
clearly limited to residents of a development and their occasional invited
guests.
      (1)   INDOOR RECREATION. A type of recreation use that:
         (a)   Does not meet the definition of outdoor recreation; and
         (b)   Is used principally for active or passive recreation, such as a
bowling alley, roller skating, ice skating, commercial batting practice use and
similar uses.
      (2)   OUTDOOR RECREATION.
         (a)   A type of “recreation” use that:
            1.   Has a total building coverage of less than 15%; and
            2.   Is used principally for active or passive recreation, such as
a golf driving range, miniature golf course, amusement park and similar uses.
         (b)   This term shall not include any use listed separately as a
distinct use by §§
155.065 through
155.075, such as a firearms target range.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER. A use for collection and temporary storage of
more than 500 pounds of common household materials for recycling, but that does
not involve processing or recycling other than routine sorting, baling and
weighing of materials. This term shall not include the indoor storage of less
than 500 pounds of household recyclables and their customary collection, which
is a permitted by right accessory use in all zoning districts, without
additional regulations. A RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER is also a permitted by
right accessory use to a public or private primary or secondary school, a place
of worship, a township-owned use or an emergency services station.
   REGISTRY. The registry established by the Pennsylvania Department of Health
for all medical marijuana organizations and practitioners.
   RELATED or RELATIVE. Persons who are related by blood, marriage, adoption or
formal foster relationship to result in one of the following relationships:
spouse; brother; sister; parent; child; grandparent; great-grandparent;
grandchild; great-grandchild; uncle; aunt; niece; nephew; sister-in-law;
brother-in-law; or parent-in-law. This term specifically shall not include
relationships such as second, third or more distant cousins. See definition of
DWELLING UNIT.
   REPAIR SERVICE. Shops for the repair of appliances, watches, guns, bicycles
and other household items.
   RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (INCLUDES BUILDING) OR USE. A use or
structure that is clearly accessory, customary and incidental to a principal
residential use on a lot, including the following uses and uses that are very
similar in nature: garage (household); carport; tennis court; garage sale;
basketball backboard; household swimming pool; gazebo; storage shed;
greenhouse; children’s playhouse; or children’s play equipment. No business
shall be conducted in a household garage or storage shed that is accessory to a
dwelling, except as may be allowed as a home occupation.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT(S). The CON, R-A, S-R, VR and RS-R Zoning Districts.
   RESIDENTIAL LOT LINES. The lot line of a lot that:
      (1)   Contains an existing primarily residential use on a lot of less
than ten acres; or
      (2)   Is undeveloped and zoned as a residential district.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   An establishment that sells ready to consume food or drink and that
routinely involves the consumption of at least a portion of such food on the
premises.
      (2)   A restaurant may include the accessory sale of alcoholic beverages.
However, if such sale is a primary or substantial portion of the total trade,
the requirements of a “tavern” or nightclub as applicable must be met.
      (3)   See DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE.
   RETAIL STORE. A use in which merchandise is sold or rented to the general
public, but not including the following: sales of motor vehicles or boats;
adult movie theater; adult bookstore; manufacturing; tavern; car wash; auto
service station; auto repair garage; convenience store; or any restaurant.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area or strip of land which is reserved for use by or as a
street or by one or more utilities or by the public or by others. The term
RIGHT-OF-WAY by itself shall mean the STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY, unless another
meaning is otherwise stated or clearly implied from the context in which it is
used.
      (1)   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY, EXISTING OR LEGAL. The official established
street right-of-way that either the township or the state presently own or hold
another interest in the land, or will own after the completion of any proposed
subdivision, land development or development of a use under this chapter,
whether by dedication or otherwise.
      (2)   See RIGHT-OF-WAY, FUTURE OR ULTIMATE in the subdivision and land
development ordinance, §
154.031 of this code of ordinances.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PRIMARY OR SECONDARY SCHOOL. An educational
institution primarily for persons between the ages of five and 19 that
primarily provides state-required or largely state-funded educational programs.
This term shall not include trade schools.
   SCREENING. Year-round plant material of substantial height and density
designed to provide a buffer.
   SELF-STORAGE DEVELOPMENT. A building or group of buildings divided into
individual separate access units which are rented or leased for the storage of
personal and small business property.
   SETBACK LINE. A line separating a yard from the area within which a building
or use is allowed.
   SEWAGE SERVICE, CENTRAL. Sanitary sewage service to a building by a
township-approved sewage collection and disposal system that serves five or
more lots, and which includes an appropriate mechanism to ensure long-term
professional operation and maintenance of the system.
   SEWAGE SERVICE, ON-LOT. Sanitary sewage service to a building that does not
meet the definition of central sewage service, such as, but not limited to, an
individual on-lot septic system.
   SEWAGE SERVICE, PUBLIC. Central sanitary sewage service by a system owned
and/or operated by a municipality or a municipal authority.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area required to be kept free of certain visual
obstructions to traffic. See §
155.092.
   SIGN. The definition in §
155.136 shall apply.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISE. The definition in §
155.136 shall apply.
   SINGLE AND SEPARATE OWNERSHIP. The ownership of a lot by one or more
persons, partnerships or corporations, which ownership is separate and distinct
from that of any abutting or adjoining lot.
   SITE ALTERATIONS. This term shall include one or more of the following
activities:
      (1)   Filling of lakes, ponds, marshes or floodplains or alteration of
watercourses; and
      (2)   Clearing and regrading of more than one-half acre, other than
selective thinning of existing vegetation or trees.
   SKIDDING. Dragging trees on the ground, by any means, from the stump to the
landing.
   SLASH. Woody material left after logging, including logs, chunks, bark,
branches, stumps, and broken understory trees or brush.
   SOLID WASTE-TO-ENERGY FACILITY. An area where municipal solid waste and
similar materials are incinerated or otherwise processed to result in usable
energy for off-site use.
   SOLID WASTE LANDFILL. An area where municipal solid waste and similar
materials is deposited on land, compacted, covered with soil and then compacted
again, and which has a permit from DEP to operate as a sanitary landfill.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSFER FACILITY. Land or structures where solid waste is
received and temporarily stored, at a location other than the site where it was
generated, and which facilitates the bulk transfer of accumulated solid waste
to a facility for further processing or disposal. Such facility may or may not
involve the separation of recyclables from solid waste. Such facility shall not
include a junkyard, leaf composting, clean fill, or septage or sludge
application.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use for which the Zoning Hearing Board may grant
permission following a public hearing and findings of fact consistent with this
chapter, provided the use complies with the conditions and standards required
by this chapter. See §
155.034.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. One or more of the following:
      (1)   Human male genitals in a visible state of sexual stimulation;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral sex or sodomy;
and/or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals. See definition
of ADULT USE.
   STAND PRESCRIPTION. The type of forest management treatment, if any, to be
applied to a particular stand to achieve the stated management objectives. The
stand prescription should include, but not be limited to, detailed instructions
on how that treatment is to be carried out on the ground, the desired residual
stand, and details on any other treatments to be applied.
   STAND REGENERATION TREATMENT. A selection, natural, shelterwood, seed tree,
or clear-cut that is designated to replace the existing stand with a new stand
of young trees.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and its agencies.
   STORY. A level of a building routinely accessible to humans having an
average vertical clearance from floor to ceiling of six and one-half feet or
greater shall be considered a FULL STORY, except as follows. If the floor of a
basement level is more than six feet below the finished grade level for more
than 50% of the total building perimeter, it shall not be regulated as a STORY.
Any level of a building having an average vertical clearance from floor to
ceiling of less than six and one-half feet shall be considered a HALF-STORY.
   STREAM. Any channel of conveyance of surface water having a defined bed and
banks, whether natural or artificial, with perennial or intermittent flow.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which provides the principal means
of vehicle access to three or more lots or that is an expressway, but not
including an alley or a driveway. The terms STREET, HIGHWAY and ROAD have the
same meaning and are used interchangeably.
   STREET CLASSIFICATION. The functional classification of streets, roads and
highways that is provided in the Township Comprehensive Plan shall apply. For
the purposes of this chapter, such CLASSIFICATIONS may be revised by written
resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made object having a stationary location on, below or
in land or water, whether or not affixed to the land. Any STRUCTURE shall be
subject to the principal or accessory setbacks of this chapter, as applicable,
unless specifically exempted or unless a specific setback is established for
that particular type of structure by this chapter. For the purposes of this
chapter, utility poles, stormwater basins, wells, paving and septic systems
shall not be considered STRUCTURES, and shall not be subject to minimum zoning
setback requirements unless stated otherwise.
   SUBDIVISION. The definition in the subdivision and land development
ordinance shall apply. See §
154.031 of this code of ordinances.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE or SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE. The
Upper Milford Township subdivision and land development ordinance, as amended
and as codified in Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   SWIMMING POOL, HOUSEHOLD OR PRIVATE. A human-made area with walls of human-
made materials intended to enclose water at least 30 inches deep for bathing or
swimming and that is intended to serve the residents of only one dwelling unit
and their occasional guests.
   SWIMMING POOL, NON-HOUSEHOLD. A human-made area with walls of human-made
materials intended to enclose water at least 30 inches deep for bathing or
swimming and that does not meet the definition of a household swimming pool.
   TAVERN. A place where alcoholic beverages are served as a primary or
substantial portion of the total trade and which does not meet the definition
of an AFTER-HOURS CLUB or a NIGHTCLUB. The sale of food may also occur. See the
definition of RESTAURANT.
   THEATER. A building or part of a building devoted to the showing of motion
pictures or theatrical or performing arts productions as a principal use, but
not including an outdoor drive-in theater or adult movie theater.
   TIMBER HARVESTING (INCLUDES TREE HARVESTING/LOGGING). The cutting down and
removal of trees and logs to be converted to any forest product or for sale to
others.
   TIRE STORAGE, BULK. The storage of more than 20 used tires on a lot, except
that a tire retail store may include the temporary storage of up to 100 used
tires awaiting disposal without being regulated by this term.
   TOPS. The upper portion of a felled tree not merchantable because of small
size, taper, or defect.
   TOWNHOUSE. See DWELLING TYPES.
   TOWNSHIP. Upper Milford Township, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania.
   TRADE/HOBBY SCHOOL or TRADE SCHOOL.
      (1)   A facility that:
         (a)   Is primarily intended for education of a work-related skill or
craft or a hobby; and
         (b)   Does not primarily provide state-required education to persons
under age 16.
      (2)   Examples include a dancing school, martial arts school, cosmetology
school or ceramics school.
   TRADESPERSON. A person involved with building trades, such as but not
limited to: plumbing; electrical work; building construction; building
remodeling; and roofing.
   TREATMENT CENTER.
      (1)   A use (other than a prison or a hospital) providing housing for
three or more unrelated persons who need specialized housing, treatment and/or
counseling because of:
         (A)   Criminal rehabilitation, such as a criminal halfway house;
         (B)   Current addiction to a controlled substance that was used in an
illegal manner or alcohol; and/or
         (C)   A type of mental illness or other behavior that causes a person
to be a threat to the physical safety of others.
      (2)   Also, a group home that exceeds the number of residents allowed by
this chapter within a group home shall be regulated as a TREATMENT CENTER,
unless approved otherwise under §
155.029(D).
   TREE. A perennial woody plant having a main trunk with a diameter of one and
one-half inches or greater, unless a differing measurement is provided for a
specific purpose of this chapter.
   TROUT STREAM. Any cold water stream which supports a trout fishery that is
managed, stocked, or regulated by the Pennsylvania Fish Commission.
   UNIT FOR CARE OF RELATIVE. A dwelling unit that:
      (1)   Is especially created for and limited to occupancy by a close
“relative” of the permanent residents of the principal dwelling unit;
      (2)   Is necessary to provide needed care and supervision to such
relative; and
      (2)   Meets the requirements for such use.
   UNLICENSED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or trailer that does not display a
license plate with a current registration sticker or does not have a valid
state safety inspection sticker. The requirement for a safety inspection
sticker shall not apply to vehicles (such as licensed antique cars and trailers
of less than 3,000 pounds aggregate gross vehicle weight) for which state
regulations do not require such a sticker. The term shall not include a motor
vehicle displaying an inspection sticker that expired less than 30 days
previously.
   USE. The purpose, activity, occupation, business or operation for which land
or a structure is designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained. USES
specifically include, but are not limited to the following: activity within a
structure; activity outside of a structure; any structure; recreational vehicle
storage; or parking of commercial vehicles on a lot.
   VARIANCE. The granting of specific permission by the Zoning Hearing Board to
use, construct, expand or alter land or structures in such a way that
compliance is not required with a specific requirement of the zoning chapter.
Any VARIANCE shall only be granted within the limitations of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq. See §
155.029.
   WALL. See FENCE.
   WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings primarily used for the indoor
storage, transfer, and distribution of products and materials, but not
including retail uses or a truck terminal, unless such uses are specifically
permitted in that zoning district.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel or conveyance of surface water having a defined bed
and banks, whether natural or artificial, with perennial or intermittent flow.
   WATER SERVICE, CENTRAL. Water supply service to a building by a township-
approved water supply system that serves 20 or more lots, and which includes an
appropriate mechanism to ensure long-term professional operation and
maintenance of the system.
   WATER SERVICE, ON-LOT. Water supply service to a building that does not meet
the definition of central water service, such as, but not limited to, an
individual on-lot well.
   WATER SERVICE, PUBLIC. Central water service by a system owned and/or
operated by a municipality or a municipal authority.
   WETLANDS. An area of land and/or water meeting one or more definitions of a
wetland under federal and/or state law and/or regulations.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. A structure, partially or wholly
exterior to a building, used for transmitting or re-transmitting electronic
signals through the air, and that does not meet the definition of a standard
antenna. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES shall include, but are not limited
to, antennas used for transmitting commercial radio or television signals, or
to receive such signals for a cable system, or to re-transmit wireless
telecommunications. A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY tower shall be a
structure over 30 feet in height that is primarily intended to support one or
more antenna. See standards in §
155.074(E)(46). This term shall not include a standard antenna.
      (A)   LATTICE TOWER. A wireless communications tower that is guyed or
self-supporting with an open steel-frame structure.
      (B)   MONOPOLE TOWER. A wireless communications tower that involves a
single shaft as its structural support.
   YARD.
      (1)   An open area unobstructed from the ground to the sky that is not
permitted to be covered by buildings and principal structures and that is on
the same lot as the subject structure or use. A MINIMUM YARD is also known as a
minimum setback. Each REQUIRED YARD shall be measured inward from the abutting
lot line or existing street right-of-way (as exists after completion of any
subdivision or land development). Regulations of each district prohibit
principal and accessory structures within the specified MINIMUM YARDS.
      (2)   Private streets: for a building setback measured from a private
street, the setback shall be measured from the existing street right-of-way/
easement or 15 feet from the center of the cartway, whichever is more
restrictive.
   YARD, FRONT or FRONT SETBACK. A yard measured from and running parallel to
the front lot line or street right-of-way line (as exists after the completion
of any subdivision or land development) the full width of the lot from side lot
line to side lot line.
      (1)   The FRONT YARD shall be on a side that faces towards a public
street.
      (2)   See §
155.092 concerning yards along corner lots.
   YARD, REAR or REAR SETBACK.
      (1)   A yard extending the full width of the lot and which is measured
from along the rear line and which establishes the minimum setback for the
subject structure, and which stretches between the side lot lines parallel to
the rear lot line.
      (2)   A principal building shall not extend into the required REAR YARD
SETBACK for a principal building, and an accessory structure shall not extend
into the required REAR YARD for an accessory structure, except as provided in
this chapter.
      (3)   Every lot shall include a rear lot line and a REAR YARD.
   YARD, SIDE or SIDE SETBACK.
      (A)   A yard which establishes the minimum setback for the closest
portion of the subject structure, and which is measured from along the entire
length of the side lot line, and which extends from the front setback line to
the rear lot line.
      (B)   A structure shall not extend into the applicable minimum side yard
setback, except as provided for in this chapter.
      (C)   See CORNER LOT provisions.
      (D)   A triangular lot shall include one SIDE YARD. All other lots shall
include at least two SIDE YARDS, except for a corner lot.
   YIELD PLAN. A plan required to be submitted to the township by the applicant
under certain provisions of the zoning chapter. The YIELD PLAN shall accurately
show the maximum number of dwelling units that would be possible under current
township ordinances if certain optional development provisions would not be
used, and instead the provisions for conventional development under the current
zoning district would be used. A YIELD PLAN shall be completed to an accurate
scale, including accurately showing the existing feature map information. The
YIELD PLAN shall show potential lots, streets and retention/detention pond
locations.
   ZONING MAP. The Official Zoning Map of Upper Milford Township, Lehigh
County, Pennsylvania.
   ZONING OFFICER. The person charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions
of the zoning chapter, and any officially designated assistant.
   ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICT. A special purpose zoning district that is
superimposed over an existing zoning district(s), and, as such, the provisions
of an overlay district shall serve as a supplement to the underlying district
provisions in such designated area(s). An OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT may encompass
mor than one zoning district or may encompass only a portion of a zoning
district. Where there happens to be any conflict between the provisions of
requirements of a zoning overlay district and its underlying district, the
provisions of the overlay zoning district shall apply. In the absence of a
specific standard for a zoning overlay district, the provisions of the
underlying zoning district shall apply.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013; Ord. 140, passed 5-7-
2015; Ord. 153, passed 8-17-2017; Ord. 157, passed 9-6-2018; Ord. 161, passed
4-18-2019; Ord. 168, passed 8-18-2022; Ord. 170, passed - -2023)
DISTRICTS, PERMITTED USES AND YARD REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.065 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, zoning districts are hereby
established as follows:
AC       Agricultural Conservation
R-A      Rural Agricultural
RS-R     Rural Suburban Residential
S-R      Suburban Residential
C        Commercial
I        Industrial
CON      Conservation
VC       Village Commercial
VR       Village Residential
COSDO-OD Conservation/Open Space Development Option Overlay
CZAMB-OD Coordinated Zoning Along Municipal Borders Overlay District
 
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the zoning districts named in
division (A) above shall be of the number, size, shape and location shown on
the Official Zoning Map.
   (C)   The following zoning districts are intended to serve the following
purposes, in addition to the overall purposes and objectives of this chapter
and the Comprehensive Plan:
      (1)   CON Conservation District. To provide for very low-intensity
development in areas with significant important natural features, such as
wetlands, flood-prone lands and very steeply sloped areas. To recognize that
many of these areas have limited road access. To protect the water quality and
habitats along creeks and their headwaters and promote ground water recharge.
To provide incentives and a certain amount of flexibility in lot layout so that
development can be clustered on the most suitable portion of a tract of land,
while still avoiding overly intense development;
      (2)   AC Agricultural Conservation District. To promote the continuation
and preservation of agricultural activities in those areas most suitable for
such activities. This zone also intends to protect and stabilize the township’s
viable agricultural economy by minimizing uses that are incompatible with
farming, but permitting limited agricultural support businesses. Consequently,
residential uses are limited and any future inhabitants in this zone must be
willing to accept the impacts associated with normal farming practices;
      (3)   R-A Rural Residential District. To provide for rural types of
development at a low overall density. To avoid conflicts with agricultural uses
and recognize sewage limitations. To protect the water quality and habitats
along creeks, and promote ground water recharge. To provide incentives and a
certain amount of flexibility in lot layout through a conservation/open space
development option so that development can be clustered on the most suitable
portions of a tract of land, while avoiding overly intense development;
      (4)   RS-R Rural Suburban Residential District. To provide for low
density residential neighborhoods that are primarily composed of single-family
detached dwellings. To protect these areas from incompatible uses;
      (5)   S-R Suburban Residential District. To provide for medium density
residential neighborhoods with a mix of housing types at a medium density. To
protect these areas from incompatible uses. To meet requirements of state law
to provide opportunities for various housing types;
      (6)   VR Village Residential District. To provide for residential uses
that are similar in character to existing homes in the older villages of the
township;
      (7)   VC Village Commercial District. To provide for a mix of housing and
light business uses in a manner that avoids conflicts between homes and
intensive commercial uses. To primarily provide for smaller-scale uses that
will not be obtrusive in the landscape and that will not overload the road
system;
      (8)   C Commercial District. To provide for a wide range of commercial
uses. To carefully locate commercial areas and commercial driveways to minimize
traffic safety and congestion problems along roads; and
      (9)   I Industrial District. To provide for a range of industrial uses in
a manner that minimizes conflicts with homes and avoids serious nuisances and
hazards and to avoid additional conflicts through a Coordinated Zoning Along
Municipal Borders Development Option so that existing residential areas have a
seamless, rather than shock, transition between uses.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 140, passed 5-7-2015; Ord. 157, passed 9-6-
2018; Ord. 168, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 155.066 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law or specifically in this chapter, no
land or building or structure shall be used or occupied except for a use
permitted in the zoning district within which the land or building or structure
is located.
   (B)   The regulations set by this chapter shall apply uniformly to each
class or kind of structure or land, except as provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered and no building or
structure or part thereof shall hereafter be used or occupied unless it is in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the use and district in
which it is located.
   (D)   No part of yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading
space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter, shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   (E)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (F)   Any territory, which may hereafter be annexed to the township, shall
be classified as the zoning district of the township most similar to the zoning
of such territory before annexation (as determined by the Zoning Hearing Board)
until otherwise classified.
   (G)   No more than one principal use shall be permitted on a lot, unless
specifically permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.067 ZONING MAP AND RULES FOR INTERPRETING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   A map entitled, “Zoning Map for the Township of Upper Milford”
accompanies this chapter and is declared a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Chairperson of the Board of Supervisors attested by the Township Secretary, and
shall bear the adoption date of this chapter and the seal of the township under
the following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map
adopted March 18, 2010 as part of the Upper Milford Township Zoning Ordinance
of 2010".
   (C)   Changes of any nature to the Official Zoning Map shall be made in
conformity with the amendment procedures set forth in this chapter. All changes
shall be noted by date with a brief description of the nature of the change.
      (1)   The base information on the Zoning Map may be periodically revised
to reflect approved subdivisions.
      (2)   The Zoning Map shall reflect that the Mast Engineering survey line
shall act as the boundary line between both Upper Milford Township and Upper
Saucon Township, and Upper Milford Township and Lower Milford Township,
pursuant to the Order of Court dated October 22, 1990, indexed at Case No. 15-
R-87 in the Court of Common Pleas of Lehigh County, Pennsylvania - Criminal
Division (by Ordinance, June 3, 1992).
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map, which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map
shall be located at the township office and shall be the final authority on
boundaries and districts. The Zoning Officer shall have a certified copy of the
Official Zoning Map for official use.
   (E)   (1)   If the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or
difficult to interpret because of changes and additions, the Board of
Supervisors may, by resolution, adopt a new Official Zoning Map, which shall
supersede the prior Official Zoning Map.
      (2)   The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or
omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall
include an amendment thereof.
      (3)   The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signatures
of the Board of Supervisors, attested to by the Township Secretary, and bearing
the following words: “This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map
supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted March 18, 2010 as part
of the Upper Milford Township zoning chapter.”
      (4)   Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any part or parts thereof remaining shall
be preserved together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment.
   (F)   Zoning boundaries drawn approximately following the centerlines of
streams, drainage ways, streets, alleys, railroads or other rights-of-way shall
be construed to follow such centerlines. In the event of any change in the
centerline, the zoning boundary shall be construed as moving with the actual
centerline.
   (G)   Boundaries approximately following property lot lines shall be
construed as following such property lot lines.
   (H)   Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall
be determined by the scale of such map.
   (I)   Where physical features existing on the ground vary with those shown
on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not covered by divisions
(A) through (C) above, the Zoning Hearing Board shall interpret the district
boundaries.
   (J)   Where a lot is situated in more than one district, then the zoning
requirements of the less dense district shall be applied.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 157, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 155.068 TABLE OF ALLOWED USES IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following abbreviations shall
have the following meanings:
 
P = Permitted by right use (zoning decision by Zoning Officer)
SE = Special exception use (zoning decision by Zoning Hearing Board)
N = Not permitted
(§
155.073) = See additional requirements in §
155.073 for a permitted by right use or §
155.074 for a special exception use
(§
155.074) = See additional requirements in §
155.074
(§
155.075) = See additional requirements in §
155.075
 
   (B)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by state or federal law or
specifically stated in this chapter, any land or structure shall only be used
or occupied for a use specifically listed in this chapter as permitted in the
zoning district where the land or structure is located. Such uses shall only be
permitted if the use complies with all other requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   See §
155.024(B) which generally provides a process for approval of a use that is not
listed, based upon similarity to permitted uses and other criteria. Except as
provided in such §
155.024(B), any other principal use that is not specifically listed as P or SE
in the applicable district in this table is prohibited in that district.
      (3)   For temporary uses, see §
155.022(G).
Table 155.068(B)(4): Allowed Uses in Primarily Residential Zoning
Districts
Table 155.068(B)(4): Allowed Uses in Primarily Residential Zoning Districts
*1   =   This use shall be limited to a building that was constructed prior
to January 1, 1940, in addition to any customary additions to such building
P   = Permitted by use right (zoning decision by Zoning Officer)
SE   = Special exception use (zoning decision by Zoning Hearing Board)
N   = Not permitted
(§
155.073) = See additional requirements in §
155.073 for a permitted by right use or §
155.074 for a special exception use
(§
155.074) = See additional requirements in §
155.074
(§
155.075) = See additional requirements in §
155.075
 
                                              Zoning Districts (See names of districts in
Types of Uses (See definitions of uses in §  §
155.051)                                      155.065)
                                              CON R- RS- S- AC VR
                                                  A  R   R
                                                                                Zoning Districts (See names of
Types of Uses (See definitions of uses in §                                    districts in §
155.051)                                                                        155.065)
                                                                                CON R-A RS- S- AC  VR
                                                                                        R   R
Accessory Uses
See list of additional permitted uses in division (C) below such as
“Residential Accessory Structure or Use”
See additional requirements in §
155.075 for specific accessory uses
Bees, keeping of                                                                P   P   P   P  P   P
Bus shelter at a public bus route stop (§                                      N   N   N   P  N   P
155.075)
Composting, other than leaves or materials generated on-site (§                SE  SE  N   N  SE  N
155.075)
Day care center accessory to and on the same lot as an existing lawful place of P   P   P   P  P   P
worship
Day care (§
155.075) as accessory to a dwelling:
   - Day care of a maximum of 3 adults or youth, in addition to “relativesP oP   P   P  P   P
the caregiver
   - Group day care home                                                     N   N   N   SE N   SE
   - Family day care home                                                    SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
Farm-based business (§                                                         SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
155.075)
Home occupation, major (§                                                      SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
155.075)
Home occupation, minor (§                                                      P   P   P   P  P   P
155.075)
Horses - see under pets in §
155.075 
Retail sales of agricultural commodities (§                                    P   P   P   P  P   P
155.075)
Temporary retail sales - shall only occur if allowed by §
155.022(G)
Timber harvesting                                                               P   P   P   P  P   P
Unit for care of relative (§                                                   SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
155.075)
Commercial Uses
Airport, private or public (§                                                  N   SE  N   N  N   N
155.074)
Bed and breakfast inn (§                                                       SE* SE* N   N  SE* SE
155.074)                                                                        1   1          1
Campground (§                                                                  SE  SE  N   N  N   N
155.074), not including recreational vehicle campground
Golf course (§                                                                 N   P   P   P  N   P
155.073), with a minimum lot area of 25 acres
Gun club/outdoor target range, for firearms (§                                 SE  SE  N   N  N   N
155.074)
Kennel (§                                                                      N   SE  N   N  SE  N
155.074)
Plant nursery or tree farm, with any on-site retail sales limited to trees and
shrubs primarily grown on the premises, and with a 5% maximum building coverage P   P   P   P  P   P
and a 2 acre minimum lot area
Timber harvesting                                                               P   P   P   P  P   P
Wireless communications facility (§
155.074)
   - Meeting §                                                              P   P   P   P  P   P
155.074 pertaining to antenna placed on certain existing structures
   - Other than above (such as freestanding towers)                          SE  N   N   N  N   N
Institutional/Semi-Public Uses
Cemetery (not including crematorium, which is listed separately) (§            P   P   P   P  P   P
155.073)
Church - see place of worship below under Public/Semi-Public
College or university - educational and support bldgs. (other than              N   N   N   N  N   N
environmental education center)
Community recreation center or library                                          N   N   P   P  P   P
Cultural center or museum                                                       N   N   N   N  N   N
Day care center, adult (§                                                      N   N   N   N  N   N
155.073)
Day care center, child (§                                                      N   N   N   N  N   N
155.073) (see also as an accessory use)
Emergency services station (§                                                  N   SE  SE  SE N   SE
155.074)
Hospital                                                                        N   N   N   N  N   N
Hunting and fishing club, with a 5% maximum building coverage. This term shall  P   P   P   P  P   P
not include uses listed separately in this section
Maintenance facilities for residential property owners associations, which      N   P   P   P  P   N
shall be required to be separated by landscaped screening from any dwellings
Membership club meeting and noncommercial recreational facilities, provided
that an “after hours club”, “tavern” or uses listed separately in this sNctiSE  N   N  N   SE
shall only be allowed if so listed in this table and if the requirements for
that use are also met
Miscellaneous Uses
Animal husbandry (§                                                                           
155.073)
   - Not intensive                                                           P   P   P   P  P   P
   - Intensive                                                               N   SE  SE  SE SE  N
Commercial stable or riding academy (§                                         P   P   SE  SE P   SE
155.073)
Crop farming                                                                    P   P   P   P  P   P
Forestry                                                                        P   P   P   P  P   P
Greenhouse, wholesale, with a 10 acre minimum lot area                          P   P   P   P  P   P
Ground water or spring water withdrawal, averaging more than 10,000 gallons per
day removed from a tract for off-site consumption (§                           SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
155.073) (See also requirements for food and beverage bottling and processing
under industrial uses)
Nature preserve or environmental education center, with a 10 acre minimum lot   P   P   P   P  P   P
area for any use involving a principal building
Parking lot for carpooling                                                      N   N   N   N  N   N
Parking lot as the principal use of a lot                                       N   N   N   N  N   N
Timber harvesting                                                               P   P   P   P  P   P
Sewage sludge/biosolids, land application of                                    SE  SE  N   N  SE  N
Sewage treatment plant                                                          SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
Wind turbine, which shall be required to have a setback equal to the total                     
height from all lot lines to the tip of the extended rotor
   - Maximum of one wind turbine per lot as an accessory use that is primarilP   P   P   P  P   P
intended for generating on-site electricity (§ 155.075)
   - Other than above, such as 2 or more wind turbines per lot (§ 155.074)  N   N   N   N  SE  N
All uses that will be unable to comply with the performance standards of this
ordinance. See the “environmental protection” requirements of §§          N   N   N   N  N   N
155.110 through
155.124
Public/Semi-Public
Government facility, other than uses listed separately in this section          SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
Nursing home or personal care home/assisted living (§                          N   N   N   SE N   N
155.073)
Place of worship (§                                                            SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
155.073) (includes church)
Public utility facility other than uses listed separately in this section (see  SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
also § 155.032)
Publicly owned or operated recreation park                                      P   P   P   P  P   P
School, public or private, primary or secondary                                 N   SE  SE  SE N   SE
Swimming pool, non-household (§                                                SE  SE  SE  SE SE  SE
155.073)
Timber harvesting                                                               P   P   P   P  P   P
Township government uses, other than uses listed separately in this section     P   P   P   P  P   P
U.S. postal service facility, which may include a leased facility               N   N   N   N  N   N
Residential Uses
Age-restricted residential development under compliance with §                 N   P   P   P  N   P
155.071
Apartments (§                                                                                 
155.073), not including conversions of an existing building:
   - Only 2 dwelling units in a building (duplex or two-family detached      N   N   N   P  N   N
dwelling)
   - 3 or more dwelling units in a building                                  N   N   N   P  N   N
Boarding house (includes rooming house) (§                                     N   N   N   N  N   N
155.073)
Conservation/open space development option in compliance with §                    P
155.076
Conversion of an agricultural building that included more than 500 square feet  P   P   P   P  P   P
of floor area prior to 1985 into one dwelling unit ***
Conversion of an existing building to result in an increased number of dwelling
units, other than above (see also “unit for care of relative” under accessorN   N   N   N  N   N
uses)
Group home within a lawful existing dwelling unit (§                           P   P   P   P  P   P
155.073), not including a treatment center
Manufactured/mobile home park (§                                               N   N   N   SE N   N
155.073)
Single-family detached dwelling (Note: manufactured/mobile homes shall also     P   P   P   P  P   P
meet the additional requirements of § 155.073)
Timber harvesting                                                               P   P   P   P  P   P
Townhouse (rowhouse) (§                                                        N   N   N   P  N   N
155.073)
Twin dwelling (side-by-side)                                                    N   N   P   P  N   P
 
Table 155.068(B)(5): Allowed Uses in Primarily Business Zoning Districts
Table 155.068(B)(5): Allowed Uses in Primarily Business Zoning Districts
*2   = With a maximum floor area of 2,000 square feet for each retail
establishment
**   = However, in the VC district, an auto repair use shall be allowed if it
meets all of the following additional requirements:
a) it involves a maximum building floor area of 5,000 sq. ft.;
b) it does not involve auto body work, spray painting of vehicles or sale of
fuel;
c) it does not involve vehicle repair between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m.; and
d) it does not involve repair of vehicles with an aggregate gross vehicle
weight of greater than 17,000 pounds
***   = See definition of Agriculture Building in §
155.051 but with the additional condition that it was not originally built
with metal exterior walls
P = Permitted by use right (zoning decision by Zoning Officer)
SE = Special exception use (zoning decision by Zoning Hearing Board)
N = Not permitted
(§
155.073) = See additional requirements in §
155.073 for a permitted by right use or §
155.074 for a special exception use
(§
155.074) = See additional requirements in §
155.074
(§
155.075) = See additional requirements in §
155.075
 
Types of Uses (See definitions of uses in §  Zoning Districts
155.051)
                                              VC C I
Types of Uses (See definitions of uses in §                                       Zoning
155.051)                                                                           Districts
                                                                                   VC  C  I
Accessory Uses
See list of additional permitted uses in division (C) below, such as “Residential
Accessory Structure or Use” See Additional Requirements in §                          
155.075 for specific accessory uses
Bees, keeping of                                                                   P   P  P
Bus shelter (§                                                                    P   P  P
155.075) along a public bus route
Composting (§
155.075), other than leaves, tree bark or materials generated on-site which are    N   SE SE
permitted by right
Day care center accessory to and on the same lot as an existing lawful place of    P   P  P
worship, with a minimum lot area of 2 acres
Day care (§
155.075) as accessory to an existing dwelling:
   - Day care of a maximum of 3 adults or youth, in addition to “relatives” Pf tPe P
caregiver
Day care (§
155.075) as accessory to a dwelling:
   - Family day care home                                                       P   P  SE
   - Group day care home                                                        P   P  SE
Farm-based business (§                                                            P   P  P
155.075)
Home occupation, major (§                                                         SE  SE P
155.075)
Home occupation, minor (§                                                         P   P  P
155.075)
Outdoor storage and display as accessory to a business use shall also comply with
§§                                                                               P   P  P
155.092 and
155.093
Parking lot for carpooling (see also miscellaneous uses below)                     P   P  P
Retail sales of agricultural commodities (§                                       P   P  P
155.075)
Temporary retail sales - see §                                                    P   P  P
155.022(g)
Timber harvesting                                                                  P   P  P
Unit for care of relative (§                                                      P   P  P
155.075)
Commercial Uses
Academic clinical research center                                                      SE SE
Adult use (§                                                                      N   N  SE
155.074)
After hours club - to the extent the use is not prohibited by State Act 219 of     N   N  N
1990
Airport, private or public (§                                                     N   N  SE
155.074) (see also “Heliport”)
Amusement arcade                                                                   N   P  N
Amusement park or water park                                                       N   P  N
Animal cemetery (§                                                                N   SE SE
155.074)
Auditorium (commercial), arena, performing arts center or exhibition - trade show  N   P  N
center
Auto, boat or mobile/manufactured home sales (§                                   N   P  N
155.073)
Auto repair/body shop or auto service station (§                                  N** P  N
155.073)
Bakery, retail                                                                     P   P  P
Bed and breakfast inn, which shall meet regulations listed for the use in §       P   P  P
155.074
Betting use, beyond gambling that is allowed under state law through the lottery   N   N  N
or small games of chance
Beverage distributor (wholesale and/or retail)                                     P   P  P
Bus maintenance or storage yard                                                    N   P  P
Bus stop for inter-city bus service (other than bus maintenance or storage yard)   P   P  P
Bus stop for local bus service                                                     P   P  P
Campground (§                                                                     SE  P  P
155.073) other than recreational vehicle campground
Campground, recreational vehicle (§
155.073), which may include an accessory camp store that is primarily for use by   N   SE SE
campers
Car wash (§                                                                       N   P  N
155.073)
Catering, custom, for off-site consumption                                         P   P  P
Conference center                                                                  P   P  P
Construction company or tradesperson’s headquarters (including but not limited to
landscaping, building trades or janitorial contractor). See also as home
occupation. Accessory outdoor storage shall be permitted provided it meets the     P   P  P
buffer requirements of §
155.092(D)
Crafts or artisan’s studio (see also as home occupation)                         P   P  P
Custom printing, copying, faxing, mailing or courier service                       P   P  P
Dispensary                                                                             SE SE
Exercise club                                                                      P   P  P
Financial institution (includes banks), with any “drive-through” facilities
meeting §                                                                         P   P  P
155.075
Flea market/auction house                                                          P   P  P
Funeral home                                                                       P   P  P
Garden center, retail                                                              P   P  P
Gas station - see auto service station
Golf course (§                                                                    P   P  P
155.073)
Gun club/outdoor target range, for firearms (§                                    N   N  SE
155.074)
Heliport (see provisions in § 155.074 under airport or heliport)                  N   N  SE
Hotel or motel (§                                                                 P   P  P
155.073)
Kennel (§                                                                         N   SE SE
155.074)
Laundromat                                                                         P   P  P
Laundry, commercial or industrial                                                  N   P  P
Lumber yard                                                                        N   P  P
Medical marijuana delivery vehicle office                                              SE SE
Motor vehicle racetrack (§                                                        N   N  SE
155.074)
Nightclub (§                                                                      N   SE N
155.073)
Office (may include medical labs, see also home occupations)                       P   P  P
Pawn shop                                                                          N   P  N
Personal services (includes tailoring, custom dressmaking, haircutting/styling,
travel agency, drycleaning, shoe repair, “massage therapy, certified” and closePy  P  P
similar uses) (See also home occupation)
Picnic grove, commercial (§                                                       P   P  P
155.073)
Plant nursery (other than a retail garden center)                                  P   P  P
Propane retail distributor, other than pre-packaged sales, with a 150 feet minimum
setback required between any storage or dispensing facilities and any residential  N   N  SE
district, and with fire company review
Recording studio, music                                                            P   P  P
Recreation, commercial indoor (§
155.073 under “commercial indoor recreation”) (includes bowling alley, roller oSE  P  P
ice skating rink, batting practice, and closely similar uses); other than uses
listed separately in this section
Recreation, commercial outdoor (§
155.073, including miniature golf course, golf driving range, archery, paintball   SE  P  P
and closely similar uses); other than uses listed separately in this section
Repair service, household appliance                                                P   P  P
Restaurant or banquet hall (§
155.073)
   - With drive-through service (§                                             N   P  N
155.075)
   - Without drive-through service                                              P   P  N
Retail store (not including uses listed individually in this section) or shopping  P   P  N
center                                                                             *2
Self-storage development                                                           N   P  P
Target range, firearms, completely indoor and enclosed (see also gun club)         P   P  P
Tattoo or body piercing establishment (other than temporary tattoos or ear         N   P  N
piercing, which are personal service uses)
Tavern which may include a state-licensed micro-brewery or micro-distillery (not   SE  SE N
including an after hours club or nightclub)
Theater, indoor movie, other than an adult use                                     N   P  N
Timber harvesting                                                                  P   P  P
Trade/hobby school                                                                 P   P  P
Veterinarian office (§                                                            P   P  P
155.073)
Wireless communications facility (§
155.074)
   - Meeting §                                                                 P   P  P
155.074 pertaining to antenna placed on certain existing structures
   - Other than above (such as freestanding towers)                             N   N  SE
Wholesale sales - see under industrial uses                                              
Industrial Uses
Asphalt plant                                                                      N   N  SE
Assembly or finishing of products using materials produced elsewhere (such as      N   N  P
products from plastics manufactured off-site)
Building supplies and building materials, wholesale sales of                       N   N  P
Distribution as a principal use (other than trucking company terminal)             N   N  P
Grower/processor                                                                       SE SE
Industrial equipment sales, rental and service, other than vehicles primarily      N   P  P
intended to be operated on public streets
Junk - outdoor storage, display or processing of, other than within an approved    N   N  N
junkyard or solid waste disposal area
Junkyard (§                                                                       N   N  SE
155.074)
Liquid fuel storage, bulk, for off-site distribution, other than: auto service
station, retail propane distributor as listed separately, pre-packaged sales or    N   N  SE
fuel tanks for company vehicles
Manufacture and/or bulk processing of the following, provided manufacturing occurs       
only indoors:
   - Agricultural chemicals, fertilizers or pesticides                          N   N  SE
   - Apparel, textiles, shoes and apparel accessories (see also crafts studio)  N   N  P
   - Cement manufacture                                                         N   N  SE
   - Ceramics products (other than crafts studio)                               N   N  P
   - Chemicals, manufacture or bulk processing of toxic or “extremely hazardous
substances” in amounts in excess of the U.S. EPA threshold planning quantity or  N   N  SE
substances with similar characteristics
   - Chemical products, other than pharmaceuticals and types listed separately  N   N  SE
(see above)
   - Clay, brick, tile and refractory products                                  N   N  P
   - Computers and electronic and microelectronic products                      N   N  P
   - Concrete, cement, lime and gypsum products, other than actual manufacture oN   N  SE
cement
   - Electrical equipment, appliances and components                            N   N  P
   - Explosives, fireworks or ammunition                                        N   N  N
   - Fabricated metal products (except explosives, fireworks or ammunition) and/Nr  N  P
machine shops
   - Food (human) and beverage products, at an industrial scale as opposed to a
clearly retail scale, including but not limited to processing, bottling and        N   P  P
related trucking of water removed from a site (not including uses listed
individually in this section)
   - Food products for animals                                                  N   N  P
   - Gaskets                                                                    N   N  P
   - Glass and glass products (other than crafts studio)                        N   N  P
   - Incineration, reduction, distillation, storage or dumping of slaughterhouse
refuse, rancid fats, garbage, dead animals or offal (other than within an approved N   N  N
solid waste facility)
   - Jewelry and silverware                                                     N   N  P
   - Leather and allied products (other than crafts studio or tannery)          N   N  P
   - Machinery                                                                  N   N  P
   - Manufactured or modular housing manufacture                                N   N  P
   - Medical equipment and supplies                                             N   N  P
   - Metal products, primary                                                    N   N  SE
   - Mineral products, non-metallic (other than mineral extraction)             N   N  SE
   - Paper and paper products (including recycling, but not including manufacturN   N  P
of raw paper pulp)
   - Paper - raw pulp                                                           N   N  SE
   - Paving materials, other than bulk manufacture of asphalt                   N   N  SE
   - Pharmaceuticals and medicines                                              N   N  P
   - Plastics, polymers, resins, vinyl, coatings, cleaning compounds, soaps,    N   N  SE
adhesives, sealants, printing ink or photographic film
   - Products from previously manufactured materials, such as glass, leather,   N   N  P
plastics, cellophane, textiles, rubber or synthetic rubber
   - Prototypes, as accessory to a research and development principal use       N   P  P
   - Roofing materials and asphalt saturated materials or natural or synthetic  N   N  SE
rubber
   - Scientific, electronic and other precision instruments                     N   N  P
   - Sporting goods, toys, games, musical instruments or signs                  N   P  P
   - Transportation equipment                                                   N   N  P
   - Wood products and furniture (not including raw paper pulp)                 N   P  P
   - See §
155.024 for uses that are not listed in mineral extraction (§                     N   SE SE
155.073) and related processing, stock-piling and storage of materials removed
from the site, but including ground water or spring water withdrawals
Packaging                                                                          N   P  P
Package delivery services distribution center                                      N   N  P
Petroleum refining                                                                 N   N  SE
Photo processing, bulk                                                             P   P  P
Printing or bookbinding                                                            P   P  P
Recycling center, bulk processing, provided all operations of an industrial scale
occur within an enclosed building (this use does not include a solid waste         N   SE P
disposal or transfer facility)
Research and development, engineering or testing facility or laboratory (other     N   P  P
than medical laboratories, which is considered an office use)
Sawmill/planing mill                                                               N   P  P
Slaughterhouse, stockyard or tannery, with a 400 feet minimum setback from all lot N   N  SE
lines
Solid waste landfill (§                                                           N   N  SE
155.073)
Solid waste transfer facility or waste to energy facility (§                      N   N  N
155.073)
Timber Harvesting                                                                  P   P  P
Trucking company terminal (§                                                      N   N  SE
155.073)
Warehousing or storage as a principal use                                          N   N  P
Warehousing or storage as an on-site accessory use                                 P   P  P
Welding                                                                            N   P  P
Wholesale sales (other than motor vehicles)                                        N   P  P
Institutional/Semi-Public Uses
Cemetery (§                                                                       P   P  P
155.073, see crematorium listed separately)
College or university - educational and support buildings (other than              P   P  P
environmental education center)
Community recreation center (limited to a government sponsored or non-profit       P   P  P
facility) or library
Crematorium                                                                        N   SE SE
Cultural center or museum                                                          P   P  P
Day care center, adult (§                                                         P   P  P
155.073)
Day care center, child (§                                                         P   P  P
155.073) (see also as an accessory use)
Dormitory as accessory to a college, university or primary or secondary school     N   SE N
Emergency services station (§                                                     SE  SE SE
155.074)
Hospital (§                                                                       N   SE SE
155.074)
Hunting and fishing club. This term shall not include uses listed separately in    P   P  P
this section
Maintenance facilities for on-site grounds maintenance which shall be required to  P   P  P
separated by landscaped screening from any dwellings
Membership club meeting and noncommercial recreational facilities, provided that
an “after hours club”, “tavern” or uses listed separately in this section sPallP  P
only be allowed if so listed in this table and if the requirements for that use
are also met
Nursing home or personal care home/assisted living                                 P   P  N
Place of worship (§                                                               P   P  P
155.073) (includes church)
School, public or private, primary or secondary                                    P   P  P
Timber harvesting                                                                  P   P  P
Treatment center (§                                                               N   SE SE
155.074)
Miscellaneous Uses
Animal husbandry (§                                                                     
155.073):
   - Intensive                                                                  N   SE SE
   - Not intensive                                                              SE  SE P
Commercial stable or riding academy (§                                            SE  P  P
155.073)
Crop farming and wholesale greenhouses                                             P   P  P
Forestry                                                                           P   P  P
Ground water or spring water withdrawal, averaging more than 10,000 gallons per
day removed from a tract for off-site consumption (§                              N   SE SE
155.073) (see also requirements for food and beverage bottling and processing
under industrial uses)
Nature preserve or environmental education center                                  P   P  P
Parking lot or structure as an accessory use                                       P   P  P
Parking lot or structure as a principal use that does not primarily serve tractor- P   P  P
trailer trucks or trailers
Parking lot or structure as a principal use that primarily serves tractor-trailer  N   N  SE
trucks or trailers
Sewage sludge/biosolids, land application of                                       SE  SE SE
Sewage treatment plant                                                             SE  SE SE
Timber harvesting                                                                  P   P  P
Wind turbine, maximum of 1 per lot, which shall be required to have a setback
equal to the total height to the extended tip of the rotors from all lot lines of  P   P  P
existing dwellings and residential districts (§
155.075)
All uses that will be unable to comply with the performance standards of this
ordinance. See the “Environmental protection” requirements of §§             N   N  N
155.110 through
155.124
Public/Semi-Public
Township government uses, other than uses listed separately in this section        P   P  P
Government facility, other than uses listed separately in this section             SE  SE SE
Prison or similar correctional institution                                         N   N  SE
Publicly owned or operated recreation park                                         P   P  P
Public utility facility (see also §                                               SE  SE SE
155.032) other than uses listed separately in this section
Timber harvesting                                                                  P   P  P
Swimming club or non-household swimming pool (§                                   P   P  P
155.073)
U.S. postal service facility, which may include a leased facility                  P   P  P
Residential Uses
Apartments (§                                                                     N   N  N
155.073), other than conversions of an existing building
Boarding house (includes rooming house) (§                                        N   SE N
155.073)
Conversion of an existing building to result in an increased number of dwelling    SE  SE N
units (see also “unit for care of relative” under accessory uses)
Coordinated Zoning along Municipal Borders Development Option (§                  N   N  P
155.077)
Group home within a lawful existing dwelling unit (§                              P   P  P
155.073), not including a treatment center
Manufactured/mobile home park (§                                                  N   N  N
155.073)
Single-family detached dwelling (note - manufactured/mobile homes shall meet the   P   P  N
additional requirements of § 155.073)
Timber harvesting                                                                  P   P  P
Townhouse (rowhouse) (§                                                           N   N  N
155.073)
Twin (or two-family) dwelling (side-by-side)                                       N   N  N
 
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses in all districts. An accessory use of a
dwelling is only permitted if such use is customarily incidental to the
residential use and is specifically permitted by this chapter. The following
are permitted by right as accessory uses to a lawful principal use in all
districts, within the requirements of §
155.075 and all other requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Standard antennas, including antennas used by contractors to
communicate with their own vehicles (see standard for each in §
155.075);
      (2)   Fence or wall (see standard for each in §
155.075);
      (3)   Garage, household;
      (4)   Garage sale;
      (5)   Pets, keeping of (see standard for each in §
155.075);
      (6)   Parking or loading, off-street, only to serve a use that is
permitted in that district;
      (7)   Recreational facilities, limited to use by: residents of a
development or students at a primary or secondary school or center for the care
and treatment of youth, and their occasional invited guests;
      (8)   Residential accessory structure (see definition in §
155.051) (see standard for each in §
155.075);
      (9)   Signs, as permitted by §§
155.135 through
155.146;
      (10)   Swimming pool, household (see standard for each in §
155.075); and
      (11)   Such other accessory use or structure that the applicant proves to
the satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing Board is clearly customary and
incidental to a “permitted by right” or “special exception principal use”.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses to business and institutional uses. The
following are permitted by right accessory uses only to a permitted by right or
special exception commercial, industrial or institutional use, provided that
all requirements of this chapter are met:
      (1)   Storage of fuels for on-site use or to fuel company vehicles;
      (2)   The following accessory uses, provided that the use is clearly
limited to employees, patients, residents and families of employees of the use
and their occasional invited guests:
         (a)   Internal cafeteria without drive-through service;
         (b)   Day care center; or
         (c)   Recreational facilities.
      (3)   Bus shelters meeting §
155.075;
      (4)   Automatic transaction machine; and
      (5)   Storage sheds meeting the requirements of §
155.069.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013; Ord. 140, passed 5-7-
2015; Ord. 153, passed 8-17-2017; Ord. 157, passed 9-6-2018; Ord. 161, passed
4-18-2019; Ord. 168, passed 8-18-2022; Ord. 170, passed - -2023)
§ 155.069 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS IN EACH DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. The following area, yard and building requirements shall
apply for the specified zoning district, unless a more restrictive requirement
for a specific use is required by §§
155.073,
155.074 or
155.075 or another section of this chapter. All measurements shall be in feet
unless otherwise stated. See definitions of terms (such as lot width) in §
155.051.
                    Min. Lot
                    Width    Min.               Min. Side
Zoning    Min. Lot  Measured Front    Min. Rear Yard       Maximum  Maximum
District: Area (sq. at Min.  Yard     Yard      Setback ** Percent  Percent
Type of   ft.)      Building Setback  Setback   (each)     Building Impervious
Use       (Note E)  Setback  (ft.)    (ft.) **  (ft.)      Coverage Coverage
                    Line     (Note D)
                    (ft.)
                                                                                                                                   Min. Lot Min.
                                                                                                                                   Width    Front   Min.    Min. Side
                                                                                                                                   Measured Yard    Rear    Yard      Maximum  Maximum
Zoning District: Type of Use                                         Min. Lot Area (sq. ft.) (Note E)                              at Min.  Setback Yard    Setback   Percent  Percent
                                                                                                                                   Building (ft.)   Setback ** (each) Building Impervious
                                                                                                                                   Setback  (Note   (ft.)   (ft.)     Coverage Coverage
                                                                                                                                   Line     D)      **
                                                                                                                                   (ft.)
CON Conservation District                                            87,120 (2 acres), unless a larger lot area is required by §  200      50      50      25        10%      15%
                                                                     155.112
AC Agricultural Conservation District                                The provisions of §
                                                                     155.070 shall apply
R-A Rural Agricultural District                                      87,120 (2 acres), unless a larger lot area is required by §
See the option for conservation/open space development option in §  155.112                                                       175      35      50      25        15%      20%
155.076
RS-R Residential Suburban Residential District
Single-family detached dwelling without township-approved central    43.560 (1 acre)                                               120      30      50      15        20       40%
water service and without township-approved central sewage service
Single-family detached dwelling with township- approved central      39,000                                                        120      30      50      15        20       40%
water but without township- approved central sewage service
Single-family detached dwelling with township- approved central      27,000                                                        120      30      25      10        30       50%
sewage service but without central water service
Single-family detached dwelling with both township-approved central  12,000                                                        70       30      25      10        30       50%
water and township- approved central sewage services
                                                                                                                                   22 per                   10,
                                                                                                                                   interior                 except 0
                                                                                                                                   dwelling                 at the
Townhouse, which shall only be allowed in a open space development                                                                 unit,                    shared
if both township-approved central water and township- approved       Minimum average lot area of 7,000 per dwelling unit (Note C)  and 45   25      25      lot line  40%      50%
central sewage services are provided                                                                                               for each                 of
                                                                                                                                   end unit                 lawfully
                                                                                                                                   (Note B)                 attached
                                                                                                                                                            dwellings
                                                                                                                                                            10,
                                                                                                                                                            except 0
                                                                                                                                                            at the
Twin dwelling, which shall only be allowed if both township-approved                                                               60 per                   shared
central water and township-approved central sewage services are      7,000 per dwelling unit                                       dwelling 30      25      lot line  30       50%
provided                                                                                                                           unit                     of
                                                                                                                                                            lawfully
                                                                                                                                                            attached
                                                                                                                                                            dwellings
Other allowed principal use                                          43,560 (1 acre)                                               120      30      50      15        20       50%
All dwellings shall have a minimum principal building width and length of 20 feet (not including unenclosed structures)
S-R Suburban Residential District
                                                                                                                                                            10,
                                                                                                                                                            except 0
                                                                                                                                                            at the
Apartments (including two-family detached dwellings) which shall                                                                                            shared
only be allowed if both township-approved central water and          Minimum average lot area of 6,500 per dwelling unit (Note C)  120      25      25      lot line  40%      50%
township- approved central sewage services are provided                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                                            lawfully
                                                                                                                                                            attached
                                                                                                                                                            dwellings
Single-family detached dwelling without township-approved central    43,560                                                        150      25      25      15        20%      40%
water service and without township-approved sewage services
Single-family detached dwelling with township- approved central      39,000                                                        150      25      25      15        20%      40%
water but without township- approved central sewage services
Single-family detached dwelling with township- approved central      27,000                                                        100      25      25      10        30%      50%
sewage service but without central water service
Single-family detached dwelling with both township-approved central  7,500                                                         75       25      25      10        30%      50%
water and township- approved central sewage services
                                                                                                                                   20 per                   10,
                                                                                                                                   interior                 except 0
                                                                                                                                   dwelling                 at the
Townhouse: which shall only be allowed if both township-approved                                                                   unit,                    shared
central water and township- approved central sewage services are     Minimum average lot area of 7,000 per dwelling unit (Note C)  and 40   25      25      lot line  40%      50%
provided                                                                                                                           for each                 of
                                                                                                                                   end unit                 lawfully
                                                                                                                                   (Note B)                 attached
                                                                                                                                                            dwellings
                                                                                                                                                            10,
                                                                                                                                                            except 0
                                                                                                                                                            at the
Twin dwelling which shall only be allowed if both township-approved                                                                35 per                   shared
central water and township- approved central sewage services are     6,000                                                         dwelling 25      25      lot line  40%      50%
provided                                                                                                                           unit                     of
                                                                                                                                                            lawfully
                                                                                                                                                            attached
                                                                                                                                                            dwellings
Other allowed principal use                                          40,000                                                        100      25      25      15        30%      50%
Manufactured home parks shall meet the requirements for such use as stated in §§
154.090 through
154.093 instead of the requirements of this section
VC Village Commercial and VR Village Residential District 
Single-family detached dwelling without township-approved central    43,560 (1 acre)                                               120      20      20      5         40%      60%
water service and without township-approved sewage services
Single-family detached dwelling with township- approved central      39,000                                                        120      20      20      5         40%      60%
water but without township- approved central sewage services
Single-family detached dwelling with township-approved central       27,000                                                        120      20      20      5         40%      60%
sewage service but without central water service
Single-family detached dwelling with both township-approved central  9,000                                                         60       20      20      5         40%      60%
water and township- approved central sewage services
                                                                                                                                                            5, except
                                                                                                                                                            0 at the
Twin dwelling, which shall only be allowed if both township-approved                                                               50 per                   shared
central water and township-approved central sewage services are      7,000 per dwelling unit                                       dwelling 20      20      lot line  40%      60%
provided                                                                                                                           unit                     of
                                                                                                                                                            lawfully
                                                                                                                                                            attached
                                                                                                                                                            dwellings
Other allowed principal use                                          43,560 (1 acre)                                               120      20      20      5         40%      60%
                                                                                                                                   150,
                                                                                                                                   except
                                                                                                                                   80 for a
                                                                                                                                   lot that
                                                                                                                                   will not
                                                                                                                                   have its                           25%,
                                                                                                                                   own                                except   60%,
                                                                                                                                   vehicle                            35% for  except 75%
                                                                                                                                   access                             a lot    for a lot
                                                                                                                                   directly                           that is  that is
                                                                     40,000, except 10,000 if a lot is served by both central      onto             40      20 (Note  served   served by
C Commercial District                                                water and central sewage services                             Route 29 50      (Note   A)        by both  both
                                                                                                                                   or Route         A)                central  central
                                                                                                                                   100 and                            water    water and
                                                                                                                                   that                               and      central
                                                                                                                                   will                               central  sewage
                                                                                                                                   have                               sewage   services
                                                                                                                                   central                            services
                                                                                                                                   water
                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                   central
                                                                                                                                   sewage
                                                                                                                                   services
                                                                                                                                                    50      15 (Note
I Industrial District                                                40,000                                                        120      50      (Note   A)        30%      75%
                                                                                                                                                    A)
   See the option for Coordinated Zoning along Municipal Borders Development Option in compliance with §
155.077 .
Corner lot setback, see §
155.092(B)(1)
** = The following exceptions shall apply:
      - For accessory structures and uses, see division (C) below
      - Structures shall not obstruct minimum sight clearance at intersections
      - See §
155.092(B) pertaining to corner lots
      - See §
155.096 regarding extension of nonconforming setbacks
(Note A) = Except 40 feet side and 50 feet rear for a principal business use from a directly abutting principal residential lot in a residential district. A side or rear yard shall be
increased to 100 feet for any new or expanded portion of an industrial building or tractor-trailer truck loading dock from the lot line of a primarily residential use in a residential
district.
(Note B) = Except if 2 or more side-by-side off-street parking spaces are located in the front yard of a townhouse or if garage door(s) for 2 or more vehicles face onto the street in
the front of the townhouse, then the minimum building width per dwelling along such street shall be a minimum of 24 feet. A maximum of 50% of the land area between the front of each
townhouse and the right-of-way line shall be used for vehicle parking and driveways.
(Note C) = These provisions are intended to allow flexibility in the placement of individual dwelling units, regardless of whether the homes are condominium or fee-simple, and
regardless of whether public streets, private streets, or parking courts are used.
   - The minimum average lot area per dwelling unit establishes the maximum number of units permitted on a tract of land.
   - The minimum average lot area per dwelling unit shall be calculated after deleting existing street right-of-way of existing streets and alleys, but shall include: right-of-way of
proposed streets and alleys and areas of parking courts, common open space, and stormwater detention basins.
   - Land areas of a golf course (not including areas covered by buildings or paving) may be counted towards the overall tract size for the purposes of calculating density if the golf
course includes more than 20 acres of land (which may include abutting land in another municipality), and if all areas used to count towards the density are preserved by a permanent
conservation easement that is enforceable by Upper Milford Township.
(Note D) = Setbacks shall be measured from the future/ultimate right-of-way. An unenclosed front porch or deck may intrude up to 10 feet into the minimum front yard. This porch or deck
may be covered by a roof.
(Note E) = See natural feature regulations, including §
155.112 for steep slopes. The minimum lot area is per dwelling unit unless otherwise stated.
Abbreviations:
sq. ft. = square feet
min. = minimum
max. = maximum
ft. = feet
 
   (B)   Height. Except as provided in §
155.091, or as specified otherwise in this chapter for a particular use, the
following maximum structure height shall apply in all zoning districts:
      (1)   Any structure that is accessory to a dwelling and that does not
meet the setbacks for a principal building shall have a maximum of two stories
(with the second story limited to non-habitable storage areas) or 25 feet,
whichever is more restrictive; and
      (2)   The maximum height for any other structure shall be three stories
or 40 feet, whichever is more restrictive.
   (C)   Accessory structures and uses.
      (1)   Accessory structures and uses shall meet the minimum yard setbacks
provided for in division (A) above, unless otherwise provided for in this
chapter, including this division (C).
      (2)   The minimum side and rear yard setback apply for a permitted
detached structure that is
accessory to a dwelling shall be ten feet in the CON or R-A districts and five
feet in other districts, except in the following cases.
         (a)   The minimum rear setback shall be reduced to three feet for a
residential accessory storage shed having a total floor area of less than 150
square feet.
         (b)   A side yard setback is not required for a structure that is
accessory to a dwelling from a lot line along which two dwellings are attached
(such as a lot line shared by twin dwellings). However, such structure shall
still meet the minimum side yard on a lot line where the dwellings are not
attached.
         (c)   A residential porch or deck that is unenclosed may extend a
maximum of 15 feet into the required rear setback. Such porch or deck may be
covered by a roof or awning. Space under an unenclosed porch may be used for
household storage. See Note D above considering front yard setbacks.
         (d)   See §
155.075 for “noncommercial swimming pools”.
         (e)   If any accessory building or pool is constructed adjacent to a
street (such as a rear yard on a lot that is adjacent to a street along the
front lot line and another street along the rear lot line), then the building
or pool shall be separated from such street by a buffer yard meeting §
155.092.
      (3)   No accessory building and no swimming pool shall be allowed in the
minimum front yard.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013; Ord. 140, passed 5-7-
2015; Ord. 157, passed 9-6-2018; Ord. 168, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 155.070 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS WITHIN THE AC AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION
DISTRICT.
   (A)   Lot area and lot width.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 50,000 square feet, except ten acres for any lot
that is beyond the number of lots allowed under division (E) below.
      (2)   Maximum lot area:
         (a)   For a single-family detached dwelling that is not on a principal
agricultural lot, two acres maximum lot area;
         (b)   The maximum lot area shall not apply if the applicant can
demonstrate by credible evidence that the area proposed for the lot:
            1.   Does not include more than two acres of Class I, II and/or III
soils, as identified in official federal soils mapping or a more accurate
professional study; or
            2.   Where additional lot area is needed to improve septic or water
supply facilities for the lot, in the determination of the Sewage Enforcement
Officer.
         (c)   The largest amount of Class I, II and III agricultural soils
that is feasible shall be included on one principal agricultural lot.
      (3)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
   (B)   Minimum yards for principal and accessory buildings. Minimum yards for
principal and accessory buildings, except for animal husbandry, the regulations
provided in §
155.073 for such use shall apply.
      (1)   Front: 35 feet.
      (2)   Each of two sides: 15 feet.
      (3)   Rear: 30 feet.
      (4)   A smaller setback may be allowed for accessory buildings under §
155.075(C).
      (5)   The minimum lot width may be met at the proposed principal building
setback line instead of the minimum building setback line if the applicant
proves that such modification would result in a greater amount of preservation
of agricultural land than would otherwise occur. This may allow a minimum 20
feet wide extension of a lot including a driveway between the bulk of the lot
and a street. This provision applies in place of the limitations on flag lots
in the subdivision and land development ordinance.
   (C)   Maximum impervious coverage. 50%.
   (D)   Maximum height. Three stories or 40 feet, whichever is more
restrictive. No maximum height shall apply to agricultural structures.
   (E)   Limitations on subdivision and land development in the AC District.
      (1)   To preserve agricultural tracts, the AC District regulations limit
the subdivision of lots from farms and establishes a maximum lot size to allow
the retention of tracts of sufficient size to be productive for agriculture.
This section is based upon § 604(3) and other provisions of the Pennsylvania
Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. § 10604(3).
      (2)   Each tract existing on March 18, 2010 shall be permitted to
subdivide new lots from the tract or establish new principal uses on the tract
based upon the lot area of the tract as it existed on March 18, 2010, as
follows:
Lot Area (Acres) Number of Total Lots Of Less than 15 Acres Which May Result
                 (including the existing/remainder lot):
Lot Area (Acres)          Number of Total Lots Of Less than 15 Acres Which May
                          Result (including the existing/remainder lot):
At least 2.6 less than 10 2
At least 10 less than 20  3
At least 20 less than 30  4
At least 30 less than 40  5
At least 40 less than 50  6
At least 50 less than 60  7
At least 70               8, plus 1 lot for every 10 acres over 80 acres
 
      (3)   The condition of the tract on March 18, 2010, or on the date on
which the tract was first zoned AC District, shall be the basis from which the
maximum development set forth in this division (E) above shall be calculated.
      (4)   No subdivision shall be permitted which shall increase the lot size
of a lot used for residential purposes in excess of the maximum lot size,
except as provided in division (E)(2) above.
      (5)   A subdivision, the sole purpose of which is to transfer land to
increase the size of a tract
being used for agricultural purposes, where both the tract from which the land
is taken and the tract to which the land is added will be 20 acres or greater
after such subdivision, shall not be included when computing the permissible
number of lots to be subdivided from a tract as set forth in division (E)(2)
above.
      (6)   A subdivision to create a lot which will be transferred to the
township, or a municipal authority created by the township, or that is deed
restricted or restricted by a conservation easement so that the lot can never
be used for a principal use shall not be included when computing the
permissible number of lots to be subdivided from a tract as set forth in
division (E)(2) above. For example, if a lot is created solely for the purposes
of stormwater management or a water supply well, it shall not be limited by
division (E)(2) above.
      (7)   Any subdivision or land development plan hereafter filed with the
applicable approving body for subdivision or land development of a parent tract
shall specify which lot or lots shall carry with it a right of further
subdivision or establishment of principal uses, if any such right remains from
the quota allocated to the parent tract on March 18, 2010, or on the date when
such land was first included within the AC District. The right of further
subdivision or establishment of principal uses shall also be included in the
deed for the newly-created lot. If the designation of the right of further
subdivision or establishment of principal uses was not included on a
subdivision or land development plan of a parent tract, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the largest lot remaining after subdivision shall
carry the right of further subdivision or establishment of principal uses.
      (8)   In the event that a tract which was not classified as part of the
AC District on March 18, 2010, or was thereafter classified as part of the AC
District, the size and ownership of the tract and the development existing on
the tract on the effective date of the change in zoning classification shall
determine the number of lots which may be subdivided from, or the number of
principal uses which may be established on such tract.
      (9)   The number of lots which may be created or principal uses which may
be established shall be fixed according to the size of the parent tract. This
number shall not be increased by the subdivision of such parent tract. Any
subsequent owner of a parent tract, land remaining in the parent tract after
subdivision or land which was formerly part of a parent tract shall be bound by
the actions of his or her predecessor.
      (10)   In submitting an application for a subdivision/land development
for a dwelling unit within the AC District, the applicant shall demonstrate
that measures have been used to:
         (a)   Minimize the loss of valuable farmland;
         (b)   Cluster residential lots on the subject property and, if
applicable, with those lots contained on adjoining farms;
         (c)   Minimize the length of property lines shared by all residential
lots and adjoining farms;
         (d)   Assure adequate vehicular access to future residences not
currently proposed; and
         (e)   Assure that the proposed plan can comply with the township’s
subdivision and land development ordinance.
      (11)   Agricultural nuisance disclaimer: the following notice, or similar
text pre-approved by the township, is required to be placed on every deed of
any new lot that is created within the AC District, and such notice shall be
disclosed to any buyer of such a lot prior to sale:
“Lands within the AC District are in an area where the township has given
priority to commercial agricultural production. Owners, residents and other
users of this property may be subjected to inconvenience, discomfort and the
possibility of injury to property and health arising from normal and accepted
agricultural practices and operations, including but not limited to noise,
odors, dust, the operation of machinery of any kind including aircraft, the
storage and disposal of manure, the application of fertilizers, soil
amendments, herbicides and pesticides. Owners, occupants and users of this
property should be prepared to accept such inconveniences, discomfort and
possibility of injury from normal agricultural operations, and are hereby put
on official notice that the Pennsylvania “Right to Farm Law” and/or
agricultural security area designation may bar them from obtaining a legal
judgment against such normal agricultural operations.”
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.071 AGE RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   This section provides a density bonus, where allowed by §
155.068(B), for a residential development that is age restricted in compliance
with the federal requirements for “housing for older persons” as specified in
the United States Code. (Note: as of 2008, such provisions were in 42 U.S.C. §
3607.) This provision shall not change the allowed dwelling types in the
district. This option is available as a by right bonus in any zoning district
where dwellings are allowed.
   (B)   (1)   In order to be approved by the township as age restricted
residential development, every dwelling unit (except one dwelling unit for one
manager) on a tract of land shall be permanently restricted by deed, by any
lease and by notes on the recorded plan to the following occupancy limitations:
         (a)   A minimum of one head of household of each dwelling unit shall
be age 55 years or older or who is physically disabled as defined by Social
Security disability regulations; and
         (b)   No person under age 18 shall live in the dwelling unit for more
than 60 days in any calendar year, unless such person has a disability as
defined under federal fair housing regulations.
      (2)   Any violation of such age restrictions shall be a violation of this
zoning chapter. In addition, in order to be approved as age restricted
development, the applicant shall establish an appropriate legal entity, such as
a property owners association that has the duty, authority and responsibility
to enforce such age restrictions over time. If a household met this requirement
at the time of initial occupancy, it shall not be required to move in case of
death, divorce or separation of a resident of that same household.
   (C)   If an entire residential development is approved under this section,
then the minimum lot area or the minimum average lot area per dwelling unit, as
applicable, shall be reduced by 15%. Alternatively, where density is stated in
terms of a maximum number of dwelling units per acre, the maximum density may
be increased by 15% under this section. The minimum side yards may also be
reduced by 15%. An age restricted residential development shall meet all other
requirements of township ordinances, including limitations on the housing types
allowed in that zoning district.
   (D)   This density bonus shall only be approved if the development includes
an appropriate system of sidewalks or pathways that is accessible under the
Americans With Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.072 HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Purposes. In addition to serving the overall purposes of this chapter,
this section is intended to:
      (1)   Promote the retention of community character through preservation
of the local heritage by recognition and protection of historic and
architectural resources;
      (2)   Establish a clear process to review and approve demolition of
designated historic buildings;
      (3)   Encourage continued use, appropriate rehabilitation and adaptive
reuse of historic buildings;
      (4)   Implement §§ 603(b) (53 P.S. §§ 10603(b)), 603(g) (53 P.S. §§ 10603
(g)), 604(1) (53 P.S. §§ 10604(1)) and 605(2) (53 P.S. §§ 10605(2)) of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code which address protecting and
facilitating the preservation of historic values through zoning and using
zoning to regulate uses and structures at or near places having unique
historic, architectural or patriotic interest or value;
      (5)   Strengthen the local economy by promoting heritage tourism,
improving property values and increasing investment in older buildings; and
      (6)   Carry out recommendations of the regional Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   This section shall apply to any principal building designed on any
adopted Historic Buildings Map. Such Historic Buildings Map shall serve as a
Historic Overlay District. Such Map is intended to be adopted as a future
amendment to this chapter.
      (2)   Any partial or complete demolition of a principal building
regulated by this section shall only occur in compliance with this section.
      (3)   (a)   DEMOLITION shall be defined as the dismantling, tearing down,
removal or razing of the exterior of a building, in whole or in part. This term
shall not include changes to the interior of a building, provided such changes
do not alter the structural integrity of the building.
         (b)   A partial demolition shall include, but not be limited to,
removal of an attached porch roof, removal of porch columns and removal of
exterior architectural features.
   (C)   Historic Buildings Map. A Historic Buildings Map may be adopted as
part of a later amendment of this zoning chapter.
   (D)   Approval of demolition.
      (1)   A building regulated by this section shall not be demolished, in
whole or in part, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Hearing Board as a special exception use that one or more of the following
conditions exists:
         (a)   The existing building cannot feasibly and reasonably be reused,
and that such situation is not the result of intentional neglect or demolition
by neglect by the owner;
         (b)   The denial of the demolition would result in unreasonable
economic hardship to the owner, and the hardship was not self-created;
         (c)   The demolition is necessary to allow a project to occur that
will have substantial, special and unusual public benefit that would greatly
outweigh the loss of the building regulated by this section. For example, a
demolition may be needed for a necessary expansion of an existing public
building or to allow a street improvement that is necessary to alleviate a
public safety hazard; or
         (d)   The existing building has no historical or architectural
significance and the demolition will not adversely impact upon the streetscape.
To meet this condition, the applicant may present information concerning the
proposed design of any replacement building or use to show that the proposed
building or use will result in a net improvement to the streetscape.
      (2)   For approval of a demolition, the standards of this section shall
apply in place of the general conditional use standards. In reviewing the
application, the Zoning Hearing Board shall consider the following:
         (a)   The effect of the demolition on the historical significance,
streetscape and architectural integrity of neighboring historic buildings and
on the historic character of the surrounding neighborhood; and
         (b)   The feasibility of other alternatives to demolition.
      (3)   A complete application for the demolition shall be submitted by the
applicant in writing. This application shall include the following:
         (a)   The name, address and daytime telephone number of the owner of
record and the applicant for the demolition;
         (b)   Recent exterior photographs of the building proposed for
demolition. If the applicant is alleging that the building cannot be reused or
rehabilitated, then interior photos and floor plans shall be provided as needed
to support the applicant’s claim;
         (c)   A site plan drawn to scale showing existing buildings and the
proposed demolition;
         (d)   A written statement of the reasons for the demolition; and
         (e)   The proposed use of the site, and a proposed timeline for
development of that proposed use.
      (4)   Evidence: the applicant shall provide sufficient credible evidence
to justify any claims that a building cannot feasibly be repaired or reused.
      (5)   Emergency: the Zoning Officer may issue a permit for the demolition
without compliance with this section if the Building Inspector certifies in
writing that the building represents a clear and immediate hazard to public
safety, and that no other reasonable alternatives exist to demolition.
      (6)   Where new construction or vehicle parking is proposed in place of
the demolished building, information about the proposed use shall be provided
prior to approval of the demolition.
      (7)   A separate demolition permit shall also be required under the
Township Construction Codes, and the applicant shall prove compliance with
State Department of Environmental Protection requirements for disposal of the
debris.
   (E)   Exceptions. Special exception use approval shall not be needed for the
following:
      (1)   Demolition of accessory buildings or structures;
      (2)   Interior renovations or removal of features (such as a rear porch)
that do not harm the structural stability of the building and that are not
visible from a public street (not including an alley);
      (3)   Removal of features that were added after 1945, such as a modern
porch or aluminum siding or carport; and
      (4)   Relocation of a building within the township, provided that the
relocation does not result in a partial or complete demolition that is
regulated by this section.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.073 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN PERMITTED BY RIGHT USES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Each of the following uses should also comply
with the additional requirements for that use listed in this section.
   (B)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Animal hospital.
         (a)   A minimum lot size of at least two acres shall be required for
those animal hospitals treating small animals (e.g., cats, birds and exotic
animals). A minimum lot size of at least three acres shall be required for
those animal hospitals treating large animals (e.g., cattle, horses and the
like).
         (b)   All buildings in which animals are housed or provided care shall
be located at least 100 feet from all lot lines. Buildings shall be adequately
soundproofed so that sounds generated within the buildings cannot be perceived
at the lot lines.
         (c)   Outdoor animal runs may be provided for small animals so long as
a double evergreen screen at least six feet in height is provided around the
runs. No animal shall be permitted to use the outdoor runs from 8:00 p.m. to 8:
00 a.m.
      (2)   Animal husbandry.
         (a)   The use shall be conducted on a lot at least ten acres in size.
         (b)   1.   Any new building used for the overnight confinement of
animals shall be setback a minimum of 200 feet from any lot line of a lot
occupied by a dwelling, unless the owner of record of that other lot provides a
written waiver allowing a smaller setback. Such setback shall only apply for
dwellings that existed at the time of the zoning application. A larger setback
is required in division (B)(2)(d) below for certain uses.
            2.   Manure storage facilities shall meet setbacks required by the
State Nutrient Management Act regulations. Where such Act does not require a
minimum setback from a lot line, then the minimum setback shall be 100 feet
from all lot lines for a manure storage facility.
         (c)   Any addition to an existing building used for the overnight
confinement of animals shall be setback a minimum of 150 feet from any lot line
of a lot occupied by a dwelling, unless the owner of record of that other lot
provides a written waiver allowing a smaller setback. Such setback shall only
apply for dwellings that existed at the time of the zoning application. A
larger setback is required in division (B)(2)(d) below for certain uses.
         (d)   Section
155.074(E)(5) shall apply for intensive animal husbandry uses.
      (3)   Auditorium.
         (a)   A 20-foot buffer yard shall separate an off-street parking area
from an adjoining lot line.
         (b)   No lighting shall be permitted which will shine on adjacent
property.
      (4)   Auto, motorcycle, boat or recreational vehicle sales. No vehicle on
display shall occupy any part of the street right-of-way, required yard areas
or required parking area.
      (5)   Auto repair garage or auto body shop.
         (a)   All repair and paintwork shall be performed within an enclosed
building.
         (b)   All provisions shall be made to prevent or minimize noise, odor,
vibration, light or electrical interference to adjacent lots.
         (c)   Outdoor storage of autos and other vehicles shall not exceed
three times the indoor repair area, shall only be back off the front yard line
and shall be no closer than 20 feet from side and rear lot lines.
         (d)   Any vehicle on the premises longer than 48 hours shall be deemed
a stored vehicle. No vehicle shall be stored in excess of 45 days.
      (6)   Auto service station.
         (a)   All activities except those performed at the fuel pumps shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building.
         (b)   Fuel pumps shall be at least 25 feet from any future street
right-of-way or 50 feet from the street centerline, whichever is greater.
         (c)   All automobile parts and dismantled vehicles are to be located
within a building.
         (d)   Full body paint spraying or body and fender work shall not be
permitted.
         (e)   Automobiles that are taken to a service station for outside
storage because of an accident may remain no longer than 60 days from the day
the car arrives at the station.
      (7)   Bus station.
         (a)   Shall be on a lot abutting an arterial or collector street (as
defined on the Official Street Classification Map); and
         (b)   Shall provide an area for the loading and unloading of buses
separate from required off-street parking areas.
      (8)   Car wash.
         (a)   Traffic flow and ingress-egress shall not cause traffic hazards
on adjacent streets.
         (b)   Access points shall be limited to two on each street abutting
the lot.
         (c)   On-lot traffic circulation channels and parking areas shall be
clearly marked.
         (d)   Signs and outdoor lighting shall be in accordance with this
chapter.
         (e)   Adequate provisions shall be made for the proper and convenient
disposal of refuse.
         (f)   Centralized sewage disposal facilities and centralized water
supply facilities shall be provided.
      (9)   Cemetery. Shall be on a lot at least two acres in area.
      (10)   Commercial indoor recreation.
         (a)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound that is perceptible within a dwelling on another lot.
         (b)   No lighting shall be permitted which will shine on adjacent
properties.
         (c)   The Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry shall approve
the design of the building.
      (11)   Commercial outdoor recreation.
         (a)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound that is perceptible within a dwelling on another lot.
         (b)   No lighting shall be permitted which will shine on adjacent
property.
      (12)   Commercial stable or riding academy.
         (a)   The use shall be conducted on a lot no smaller than ten acres in
size.
         (b)   No new agricultural buildings, animal shelters, stables, or feed
yards shall be located closer than 500 feet from all dwellings except the
dwelling of the owner or lessee, or from all residential district boundaries.
New manure storage locations and amounts shall be consistent with the Nutrient
Management Act.
         (c)   No additions to existing agricultural buildings, animal
shelters, stables, or feed yards shall be located closer than 150 feet from all
property lines, residential district boundaries and dwellings except the
dwelling of the owner or lessee. New manure storage locations and amounts shall
be consistent with the Nutrient Management Act.
      (13)   Community/cultural center. No outdoor recreation area shall be
located closer to any lot lines than the required front yard depth in the
zoning district.
      (14)   Emergency services station. Shall be located on a lot abutting an
arterial or collector street as defined by the Official Street Classification
Map.
      (15)   Financial establishment. Any drive-in window(s) shall be located,
along with attendant lane(s) for vehicles, to ensure that traffic conflicts and
hazards are avoided within the site and along the streets and highways
adjoining the financial establishment.
      (16)   Timber harvesting.
         (a)   It is the intent of this section to regulate timber harvesting
practices and to allow for and encourage proper forest management to ensure:
            1.   That long-term production of forest crops and benefits is
encouraged.
            2.   That the right to harvest trees is exercised with due regard
for the protection of the physical property of adjacent landowners.
            3.   That the potential for negative environmental impacts
resulting from improper tree harvesting is minimized.
         (b)   This section is not intended to prescribe specific cutting
practices, to prevent or hinder any landowner from realizing financial return
from the sale of trees, to prevent or hinder tree harvesting or forest industry
operators from pursuing their business, or to regulate timber harvesting for
home use, non-commercial timber stand improvement work or for the conversion of
forest land to other uses where forest management practices relating to timber
production and harvesting are no longer practical.
            1.   The provisions and requirements of this section shall apply to
all tree harvesting operations within the township, except that notification
and submission of plans shall be required only as specified in division (B)(16)
(b)3.f. and g. of this section.
            2.   It shall be the responsibility of each landowner on whose land
tree harvesting is to be carried out to have a professional forester or forest
technician develop or have developed the logging plan and submit notification
as required in this section. It is the joint responsibility of the landowner
and the operator of the timber harvest to comply with the provisions of the
logging plan.
            3.   Regulations.
               a.   A logging plan shall be prepared for each timber harvesting
operation within the township by a professional forester or forest technician.
               b.   The logging plan shall address all applicable erosion and
sedimentation control and stream crossing regulations under Chapter 102,
Erosion Control Rules and Regulations issued under the Act of June 22, 1937
(Clean Streams Law) and Chapter 105, Dam and Waterway Management Rules and
Regulations issued under the Act of 1978, P.L. 1375, No. 325 (Dam Safety and
Encroachments Act), as amended, or subsequent applicable legislation.
               c.   Points that shall be addressed by the logging plan shall
include the following at a minimum:
                  i.   Design of the road system.
                  ii.   Water control structures.
                  iii.   Stream crossings.
                  iv.   Log landings.
                  v.   Haul roads, skid roads, and skid trails.
                  vi.   Maintenance of items i. through v. above.
                  vii.   Road and log landing requirement.
                  viii.   General location of the anticipated operation in
relation to municipal and state roadways.
                  ix.   Location of property boundaries for the tract in which
the logging will take place and the boundaries of the proposed harvest area.
                  x.   A cutting practice or stand prescription for each stand
located in the proposed harvest area.
                  xi.   Copies of all required permits shall be submitted as an
appendix to the logging plan.
                  xii.   Copies of the timber sale map and erosion and
sedimentation plan.
               d.   The logging plan required by division (B)(16)(b)3.b. of
this section shall satisfy the requirements of this section if points c.viii.
through x. above are also addressed.
               e.   The logging plan, the timber sale map, and the erosion and
sedimentation plan shall be available at the timber harvesting site.
               f.   For all timber harvesting operations that are expected to
exceed five acres, the Township Enforcement Officer shall be notified in
writing both prior to the commencement of the operation and at the end of the
operation.
               g.   In addition to any notification required by division (B)
(16)(b)3.f. above, a copy of the written logging plan shall be on site and
submitted to the Township Enforcement Officer upon request.
               h.   The erosion and sedimentation control and stream crossing
requirement set forth in the logging plan shall be followed at all times during
the operation.
               i.   The following requirements shall govern all timber
harvesting operations:
                  i.   Felling or skidding on or across any public thoroughfare
is prohibited without the express written consent of the township or the
Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, whoever is responsible for
maintenance of the thoroughfare.
                  ii.   No tops or slash shall be left within 25 feet of any
public thoroughfare.
                  iii.   All tops and slash between a distance of 25 and 50
feet from a public thoroughfare shall be lopped to a maximum height of four
feet above the surface of the ground.
                  iv.   All tops and slash shall be cut to a minimum of five
above the surface of the ground unless otherwise prescribed in the logging
plan.
                  v.   All trees to be cut shall be marked above and below
stump height with tree marking paint prior to the start of logging.
                  vi.   No tops or slash shall be left on or across a property
boundary without the consent of the adjoining landowner.
                  vii.   All litter resulting from a logging operation shall be
cleaned up and removed from the site before it is vacated by the operator.
                  viii.   Logging within 75 feet of each side of a trout stream
is prohibited unless all of the following conditions have been met:
                     A.   The basal area of trees in that area within the 75
foot zone shall not be reduced below 50% of the basal area present before
cutting or below 65 square feet per acre, whichever is greater.
                     B.   Care should be taken not to remove only the highest
quality of trees in the area.
                     C.   The name and location of all trout streams which
cross the area to be logged shall be clearly indicated on the logging plan map.
            4.   Enforcement.
               a.   The Township Enforcement Officer may enter the site of any
tree harvesting operation before, during and/or after active timber harvesting
to review plans and other required documents to ensure that such plans and
documents are in compliance with the provisions of the Zoning Code and to
ensure that the actual operation is proceeding in compliance with those plans.
It is recommended that the landowner or landowner's representative be invited
to be present during any site visit.
               b.   Any timber harvesting operating found to be proceeding
without the required logging plan shall immediately cease operations and not
resume operations until a plan is submitted and approved by the Township
Enforcement Officer.
               c.   Whenever a timber harvesting operation violates any
provision of the Zoning Code, the township may seek enforcement remedies and
penalties as authorized by § 155.999.
               d.   In addition to the foregoing, whenever the Township
Enforcement Officer finds a condition in a timber harvesting operation to be
causing an immediate environmental risk, the Township Enforcement Officer shall
immediately order operations to cease, and contact the Lehigh County
Conservation District and request enforcement of the rules and regulations
referenced in this section.
      (17)   Golf course.
         (a)   No fairways, green or other use area shall be located closer
than 50 feet to a rear or side property line.
         (b)   No building shall be less than 100 feet from any lot line.
         (c)   Landscaping shall be used to distinguish golf course areas from
adjacent private residential properties.
      (18)   Group home.
         (a)   There shall be no more than six residents, unless specifically
approved otherwise under §
155.029.
         (b)   There shall be 24-hour supervision by people qualified by
training and experience in the field for which the group home is intended.
         (c)   The use shall be licensed under the applicable state program, as
applicable.
         (d)   Any medical or counseling services provided shall be done so
only for residents.
         (e)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for:
            1.   The supervisor;
            2.   Each additional employee per shift; and
            3.   Every two residents.
         (f)   The group home activity shall not be related to criminal
rehabilitation of either juveniles or adults.
         (g)   If the group home is an existing or new structure, located in a
residential district or subdivision, it shall be maintained and/or constructed
to ensure that it is similar in appearance, condition and character to the
other residential structures in the area.
         (h)   The group home shall register its location, number of residents
and sponsoring agency with the township and such information shall be available
to the public.
         (i)   If there is a change of sponsor, management or type of client in
the group home, the use shall be reconsidered by the township.
         (j)   A statement setting forth full particulars on the operation to
be conducted and to include the approvals of the Pennsylvania Department of
Health, Labor and Industry, State and Public Welfare, Human Relations
Commission as well as to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 2000d et seq. shall be filed with the township where applicable.
         (k)   The group home shall provide the township with a certificate of
certification on an annual basis.
         (l)   This use shall not include a treatment center.
      (19)   Greenhouse/nursery. Off-street parking shall be provided and
designed to prohibit vehicles from backing out onto a street or highway.
      (20)   Hotel/motel. A restaurant may be permitted as an accessory use to
a hotel or a motel.
      (21)   Laundry/laundromat. Centralized sewage disposal facilities and
centralized water supply facilities shall be provided.
      (22)   Manufactured (mobile) home.
         (a)   Shall be constructed in accordance with the safety and
construction standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development;
         (b)   Shall have a site graded to provide a level, stable and well-
drained area;
         (c)   Shall have wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed; and
         (d)   Shall be securely attached to the ground and installed in
accordance with the Construction Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings and the
manufacturer’s instructions:
            1.   The foundation system shall consist of ten inch diameter
concrete piers, concrete footing perpendicular to the main longitudinal frame,
or equivalent and shall be installed from ground level to below the frost line
(36 inches minimum). This foundation system shall be placed on eight feet
centers along each of the two main longitudinal frames for each section of the
home with no more than three feet overhang at each end of the section;
            2.   One-half inch diameter by 12 inch long eyebolts shall be cast
in place at each corner and at two midpoints in the concrete piers, concrete
footing or equivalent. Concrete blocks shall be used to support the home on the
foundation system and wood shims may be used for final leveling. The concrete
support blocks shall not be wider than the support foundation;
            3.   The manufactured home shall be securely anchored or tied down
with cable and turn buckles or equivalent connecting the frame to the cast in
place eyebolts on at least four corners and two midpoints. The tie down shall
also be in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations furnished with
each home;
            4.   Homes shall not be placed more than four feet above the
supporting ground area; and
            5.   Shall be enclosed from the bottom of the home to the ground or
stand using industry-approved skirting material compatible with the home, or a
material that has the appearance of a perimeter foundation.
      (23)   Nursery school/day care center.
         (a)   No outdoor play area shall be closer than 40 feet to any lot
line.
         (b)   The use shall comply with any applicable county, state and
federal regulations.
      (24)   Picnic grove.
         (a)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound beyond the boundaries of the property.
         (b)   No lighting shall be permitted which will shine on adjacent
properties.
      (25)   Place of worship. Shall be on a lot at least two acres in area.
      (26)   Restaurant.
         (a)   Shall screen all trash containers;
         (b)   Shall provide landscaping on all areas not covered by buildings,
structures, parking areas or access drives;
         (c)   May provide an outdoor menu board (which shall not be considered
a sign) if drive-up service is provided from within the building to customers
in their vehicles; and
         (d)   Shall provide a visual planting screen, in accordance with §
155.093(D), when adjacent to residential properties.
      (27)   Self-storage development,
         (a)   All storage units shall be fireproof and waterproof. Each shall
have separate ingress and egress secured by a locking device.
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be limited to recreational vehicles,
campers and boats on trailers parked on paved areas. All such items must be
licensed and inspected (if applicable), and in operable condition.
         (c)   Trash, garbage, refuse, explosive or flammable materials,
hazardous substances, animal, animal carcasses or skins, or similar items shall
not be stored.
         (d)   Nothing shall be stored in interior traffic aisles, off-street
parking areas, loading areas or driveway areas.
         (e)   Servicing or repairing of boats, vehicles, trailers, lawn mowers
or any similar equipment shall not be permitted.
         (f)   Adequate lighting shall be provided to illuminate the area, but
directed away or shielded to direct light away from adjacent uses.
      (28)   Swimming club or swimming pool, non-household.
         (a)   All pools shall be entirely enclosed with a good quality chain-
link or preferably a wooden or other equivalent fence of not less than six feet
in height.
         (b)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound that is perceptible within a dwelling on another lot.
         (c)   Lighting perceptible beyond the property line shall be minimized
in accordance with §
155.123.
      (29)   Truck terminal.
         (a)   There shall be a one-acre minimum lot size.
         (b)   A 20-foot buffer yard in accordance with the provisions of §
155.093(D) shall be provided along the side, rear and front lot lines, except
for vehicular and pedestrian access areas traversing the yard areas.
      (30)   Warehouse or wholesale.
         (a)   Truck parking and loading shall meet the minimum standards of
this chapter and in unique situations shall be provided according to maximum
standards of the industry for the specific type of warehouse, whole or
distribution activity to be conducted.
         (b)   Truck or rail access and operations shall not conflict with the
convenience and safety of auto traffic and parking.
         (c)   No storage of trash, garbage, refuse, explosive or flammable
materials, hazardous substances, animals, animal carcasses or skins, or similar
items shall be permitted.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 161, passed 4-18-2019; Ord. 170, passed - -
2023)
§ 155.074 SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES.
   (A)   Purpose. Before a zoning permit is granted for any use listed as a
special exception use in this chapter, a site plan shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission and approved by the Zoning Hearing Board. This procedure is
provided because of the considerable impact that these uses tend to have on a
community.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Zoning Officer shall deny a zoning permit for the proposed
development until written approval of the Zoning Hearing Board is obtained.
      (2)   All applicants for a special exception use shall submit three sets
of site plans for the proposed use to the Zoning Hearing Board as part of the
application for a zoning permit.
      (3)   All site plans shall contain the information required in §
155.022(D).
      (4)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall forward one copy of the site plan to
the Zoning Officer and one copy to the Planning Commission within five days of
receiving the submission.
      (5)   The Zoning Officer shall, prior to the next regularly scheduled
Zoning Hearing Board meeting, review the plan to determine compliance with this
chapter and submit a written report to the Zoning Hearing Board.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall, prior to the next regularly
scheduled Zoning Hearing Board meeting, review the plan to determine compliance
with this chapter and submit a written recommendation to the Zoning Hearing
Board.
      (7)   The Board shall not decide the case without reviewing the reports
received from the Zoning Officer and Planning Commission. Failure of either the
Zoning Officer or the Planning Commission to submit a written report prior to
the next regularly scheduled meeting shall not prevent the Board from hearing
and deciding the request.
      (8)   The Board shall hear and decide such request for a special
exception use under the procedures of this section.
      (9)   The decision of the Board shall be in writing and shall be
communicated to the applicant in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Approval of special exception uses.
      (1)   The Zoning Hearing Board shall approve any proposed special
exception use if it finds evidence that any proposed use will meet:
         (a)   All of the general standards listed in division (D) below; and
         (b)   All of the specific standards for the proposed use listed in
division (E) below.
      (2)   In granting a special exception, the Board may require such
reasonable conditions and safeguards (in addition to those expressed in this
chapter) as it may deem necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   General standards. Each special use shall comply with all of the
following general standards:
      (1)   In conformance with the spirit, purposes, intent and all applicable
requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   In conformance with all applicable provisions of all other township
ordinances;
      (3)   In accordance with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (4)   In conformance with all applicable state and federal laws,
regulations and requirements;
      (5)   Suitable for the particular location in question; and
      (6)   Not detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (E)   Additional standards. Each of the following special exception uses
shall also comply with the additional standards for that use listed in this
section.
      (1)   Academic clinical research center.
         (a)   Parking requirements shall follow the parking regulations found
in §
155.160 for college or university.
         (b)   An academic clinical research center may only grow medical
marijuana in an indoor, enclosed, and secure building which includes electronic
locking systems, electronic surveillance, and other features required by the
Department of Health. The portion of the academic clinical research center
where the medical marijuana is grown or processed shall not be located in a
trailer, cargo container, mobile or modular unit, mobile home, recreational
vehicle, or other motor vehicle.
         (c)   All external lighting serving an academic clinical research
center must be shielded in such a manner to not allow light to be emitted
skyward or onto adjoining properties.
         (d)   A buffer yard as required by §
155.092(D) with a solid, non-transparent fence at a height of six feet from
ground to peak is required where an academic clinical research center adjoins a
residential use or district.
         (e)   The clear sight triangle found in §
155.092(C)(2) must be provided and maintained.
         (f)   The access/driveway must be designed and improved to the
standards set forth in §
155.162(D).
         (g)   Entrances and driveways to an academic clinical research center
must be designed to accommodate the anticipated vehicles used to serve the
facility. All accesses must secure the appropriate highway occupancy permit and
all access to a township road must secure a driveway permit.
      (2)   Adult use, adult bookstore, adult movie theater, massage parlor or
cabaret (which shall mean any of the following uses).
         (a)   The regulations on adult uses are intended to serve the
following purposes, in addition to the overall objectives of this chapter.
            1.   To recognize the adverse secondary impacts of adult uses that
affect health, safety and general welfare concerns of the township. These
secondary impacts have been documented in research conducted across the nation.
These secondary impacts typically include, but are not limited to, increases in
criminal activity, increases in activities that increase the risk of
transmission of sexually transmitted diseases, increases in activities that
increase the risk of transmission of other communicable diseases, increases in
blight, decreases in the stability of residential neighborhoods, and decreases
in property values for surrounding homes, and decreases in the marketability of
nearby commercial business space. The research conducted across the nation
concludes that adult uses typically involve insufficient self-regulation to
control these secondary effects;
            2.   To limit adult uses to locations where these secondary impacts
can be minimized, particularly as they affect residential neighborhoods and
commercial revitalization; and
            3.   To not attempt to suppress any activities protected by the
“free speech” protections of the state and U.S. Constitutions, but instead to
control secondary effects.
         (b)   No adult use shall be located within 1,000 lineal feet from any
existing adult use.
         (c)   No adult use shall be used for any purpose that violates any
federal, state or municipal law.
         (d)   Pornographic and sexually explicit signs and displays shall be
prohibited that are visible from outside of the premises.
         (e)   The adult use shall not include the sale or display of “obscene”
materials, as defined by state criminal law, as may be amended by applicable
court decisions.
         (f)   An adult use shall be prohibited in all districts except where
specifically allowed under §
155.068. An adult use is a distinct use, and shall not be allowed under any
other use, such as a retail store or club.
         (g)   A minimum lot area of one acre is required.
         (h)   For public health reasons, private or semi-private viewing
booths of any kind are prohibited. This specifically includes, but is not
limited to, booths for viewing adult movies or nude dancers.
         (i)   No use may include live actual or simulated sex acts nor any
physical or sexual contact between employees and entertainers nor or between
employees or entertainers and customers. At an adult live entertainment use,
employees or entertainers shall maintain a minimum distance of three feet from
customers. This shall include, but not be limited to, a prohibition of “lap
dancing”.
         (j)   Only “lawful” massages as defined by state court decisions shall
be performed in a massage parlor.
         (k)   All persons within any adult use shall wear non-transparent
garments that cover their genitals and the female aerola, except within a
permitted lawful “adult live entertainment facility”.
         (l)   1.   Any application for such use shall state the names and home
addresses of:
               a.   All individuals intended to have more than a 5% ownership
in such use or in a corporation owning such use; and
               b.   An on-site manager responsible to ensure compliance with
this chapter on a daily basis.
            2.   A telephone number shall be provided where the on-site manager
can be reached during township business hours. Such information shall be
updated at the beginning of each year in writing to the Zoning Officer.
         (m)   The use shall not operate between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 7:00 a.m.
         (n)   As specific conditions of approval under this chapter, the
applicant shall prove compliance, where applicable, with the following state
laws, as amended: the Pennsylvania Liquor Code, being 47 P.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.,
Act 219 of 1990 (which pertains to sale or consumption of alcohol between 2:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m.), Act 207 of 1990 (which pertains to obscenity) and Act 120
of 1996 (which pertains to adult-oriented establishments and which limits
enclosed viewing booths among other matters).
         (o)   An adult use shall not be on the same lot as a use that sells
alcoholic beverages.
         (p)   No such use shall be located within 500 lineal feet of any
school, place of worship, day care center or residential district.
         (q)   No such use shall be located within 1,000 lineal feet of any
existing adult bookstore, adult movie theater, massage parlor or cabaret.
         (r)   A 20-foot wide buffer yard shall be provided, regardless of
zoning district, along the side and rear lot lines in accordance with §
155.092(D).
         (s)   No obscene material shall be placed in view of the general
public. Precautions shall be made to prohibit minors from entering the
premises.
      (3)   Airport, public or private and private heliport.
         (a)   The Pennsylvania Bureau of Aviation with the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation shall find the landing area safe and acceptable
for licensing for a private airstrip, private airport or heliport.
         (b)   The Federal Aviation Administration shall have granted approval
for the use of the air space.
         (c)   The use shall comply with any other applicable federal and state
regulations and requirements.
         (d)   Areas used for landings, take-offs and ground circulation shall
be located at least 300 feet away from adjacent property lines.
      (4)   Animal cemetery.
         (a)   All the regulations for a “cemetery” in this section shall
apply.
         (b)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer that the use will be conducted in such a manner that the public health
and ground water quality will not be threatened.
      (5)   Animal hospital. If the use involves a kennel, other than routine
keeping of sick animals, the requirements of a kennel shall also be met.
      (6)   Animal husbandry, intensive.
         (a)   The use shall be conducted on a lot at least ten acres in size.
         (b)   The provisions of §
155.073(B)(2)(b) shall apply.
         (c)   The provisions of §
155.073(B)(2)(c) shall apply.
         (d)   Intensive animal husbandry shall only be allowed if special
exception approval is granted and the use is in the R-A or AC District. Such
use shall be defined as raising of livestock or poultry that involves more than
five animal equivalent units of live weight of animals on the average per acre.
Such average shall be calculated based upon contiguous acreage that is owned or
leased by the operator of the animal husbandry use. Animal weights shall be
calculated as provided in state nutrient management regulations.
            1.   An intensive animal husbandry use shall only be allowed if new
buildings used for the overnight confinement of animals are setback a minimum
of 500 feet from the boundary of a residential district or the walls of a
dwelling that existed prior to the enactment of this section, unless the owner
of record of that other lot provides a written waiver allowing a smaller
setback.
            2.   The Zoning Hearing Board may modify such setbacks as part of a
special exception approval if necessary to allow reasonable expansion of a pre-
existing animal husbandry use or if such setback is shown to be pre-exempted by
state law.
      (7)   Auditorium.
         (a)   A 20-foot buffer yard shall separate an off-street parking area
from an adjoining lot line.
         (b)   Lighting which is perceptible beyond the property line shall be
minimized in accordance with §
155.123.
      (8)   Bed and breakfast use.
         (a)   In a residential district, no more than three guest rooms shall
be provided and no more than two adults and two children may occupy one guest
room.
         (b)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each guest
room. The off-street parking spaces shall be located either to the rear of the
main dwelling or screened from the roadway and adjoining properties by fencing
or natural vegetation.
         (c)   At least one bathroom shall be provided for use by guests.
         (d)   There shall be no use of show windows or any type of display or
advertising visible from outside the premises, except for a single sign no
larger than two square feet in size constructed and placed in accordance with
§§
155.135 through
155.146.
         (e)   No external alterations or changes to the exterior structure
shall be permitted except as required by the Pennsylvania Department of Labor
and Industry or for safety reasons as required by any other governmental
agency.
         (f)   Members of the immediate family, who must reside on the
premises, shall carry on the use.
         (g)   There shall be no separate kitchen or cooking facilities in any
guest room. Food served to guests on the premises shall be limited to breakfast
only.
         (h)   The maximum, uninterrupted length of stay at a bed and breakfast
shall be 14 days.
         (i)   The use of any amenities provided by the bed and breakfast, such
as swimming pool or tennis court, shall be restricted in use to the guests of
the establishment.
         (j)   The use may not be established until there is compliance with
all township rules and regulations.
         (k)   The existing sewage disposal system shall be recertified as
being adequate, in accordance with the state regulations.
      (9)   Boarding house. No additional standards.
      (10)   Bottling industry. Centralized sewage disposal facilities and
centralized water supply facilities shall be provided.
      (11)   Bus station.
         (a)   Shall be on a lot abutting an arterial or collector street (as
defined on the Official Street Classification Map).
         (b)   Shall provide an area for the loading and unloading of buses
separate from required off-street parking areas.
      (12)   Campground.
         (a)   Shall meet all applicable state regulations.
         (b)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound that can be heard within a dwelling on another lot.
         (c)   Lighting perceptible beyond the property line shall be minimized
in accordance with §
155.123.
      (13)   Cemetery. Shall be on a lot at least two acres in area.
      (14)   Commercial outdoor recreation.
         (a)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound that can be heard inside a dwelling on another lot.
         (b)   Lighting perceptible beyond the property line shall be minimized
in accordance with §
155.123.
      (15)   Community center/cultural center. No outdoor recreation area shall
be located closer to any lot lines than the required front yard depth in the
zoning district.
      (16)   Conversions of an existing building to result in an increased
number of dwelling units.
         (a)   The lot area shall not be reduced to less than the amount stated
for the district in which the structure is located.
         (b)   The yard, building area, off-street parking and other applicable
requirements for the district shall not be reduced.
         (c)   Adequate capacity of sewer, water and other utilities shall be
available and shall be certified.
         (d)   The resulting residential use shall be a permitted use in the
district.
      (17)   Day care center, child, as a principal use.
         (a)   No outdoor play area shall be closer than 40 feet to any lot
line.
         (b)   The use shall comply with any applicable county, state and
federal regulations.
      (18)   Dispensary.
         (a)   A medical marijuana dispensary must be legally registered in the
Commonwealth and possess a current valid medical marijuana permit from the
Department of Health.
         (b)   A medical marijuana dispensary may only dispense medical
marijuana in an indoor, enclosed, permanent, and secure building and shall not
be located in a trailer, cargo container, mobile or modular unit, mobile home,
recreational vehicle, or other motor vehicle.
         (c)   A medical marijuana dispensary may not operate on the same site
as a facility used for growing and processing medical marijuana.
         (d)   Medical marijuana dispensaries shall have a single secure public
entrance and shall implement appropriate security measures to deter and prevent
the theft of marijuana and unauthorized entrance into areas containing medical
marijuana.
         (e)   Permitted hours of operation of a dispensary shall be no earlier
than 8:00 a.m. to no later than 8:00 p.m. (of the same calendar day).
         (f)   A medical marijuana dispensary shall be no greater than 3,000
gross square feet, of which no more than 500 square feet shall be used for
secure storage of product, and shall have an interior customer waiting area
equal to a minimum of 25% of the gross floor area.
         (g)   A medical marijuana dispensary shall:
            1.   Have no drive-through service;
            2.   Not have outdoor seating areas;
            3.   Not have outdoor vending machines;
            4.   Prohibit the administering of, or the consumption of medical
marijuana on the premises; and
            5.   Not offer delivery service.
         (h)   A medical marijuana dispensary may dispense only medical
marijuana to certified patients and caregivers and shall comply with all
lawful, applicable health regulations.
         (i)   A medical marijuana dispensary may not be located within 1,000
feet of the property line of a public, private or parochial school or a day-
care center. This distance shall be measured in a straight line from the
closest exterior wall of the building or portion thereof in which the business
is conducted or proposed to be conducted, to the closest property line of the
protected use, regardless of the municipality in which it is located.
         (j)   A medical marijuana dispensary shall be a minimum of 1,000 feet
from the next nearest medical marijuana facility. This does not include
complementing or supporting businesses covered by different definitions. This
distance shall be measured in a straight line from the closest exterior walls
of the buildings or portions thereof in which the businesses are conducted or
proposed to be conducted, regardless of the municipality in which it is
located. This separation distance does not apply to the distance between the
grower/processor or academic clinical research centers and the specific
dispensary they serve, or with which they partner.
         (k)   Any medical marijuana dispensary lawfully operating shall not be
rendered in violation of these provisions by the subsequent location of a
public, private, or parochial school or a day-care center.
         (l)   All external lighting serving a medical marijuana dispensary
must be shielded in such a manner to not allow light to be emitted skyward or
onto adjoining properties.
         (m)   Parking requirements shall follow the parking regulations found
in §
155.160 for offices or clinic, medical/dental.
         (n)   A buffer yard required by §
155.092(D) with a solid, non-transparent fence at a height of six feet from
ground to peak is required where a medical marijuana dispensary adjoins a
residential use or district.
         (o)   Entrances and driveways to a medical marijuana dispensary must
be designed to accommodate the anticipated vehicles used to service the
facility.
            1.   All accesses must secure the appropriate highway occupancy
permit and all access to a township road must secure a driveway permit.
            2.   The clear sight triangle found in §
155.092(C)(2) must be provided and maintained.
            3.   The access/driveway must be designed and improved to the
standards set forth in §
155.160(D).
         (p)   Loading and off-loading areas within the structure are
preferred. If an external loading dock arrangement is designed, it should be
from within a secure environment.
      (19)   Drive-in (outdoor) theater.
         (a)   Shall be on a lot abutting an arterial or collector street (as
defined on the Official Street Classification Map);
         (b)   Shall have a lot area of at least ten acres;
         (c)   A buffer yard, which complies with the standards of §
155.092(D) shall be provided around the entire lot;
         (d)   Shall provide a driveway at least 300 feet in length between the
point where admission tickets are sold and the street right-of-way lines; and
         (e)   Shall comply with the provisions of §
155.123.
      (20)   Emergency services station. Shall be located on a lot abutting an
arterial or collector street as defined by the Official Street Classification
Map.
      (21)   Fuel oil company. Shall be in accordance with applicable federal,
state and local fire protection standards.
      (22)   Golf course.
         (a)   No fairways, green or other use area shall be located closer
than 50 feet to a rear or side property line.
         (b)   No building shall be less than 100 feet from any lot line.
         (c)   Landscaping shall be used to distinguish golf course areas from
adjacent private residential properties.
      (23)   Ground water or spring water withdrawal, as regulated under §
155.068.
         (a)   A study by a qualified professional shall be submitted to the
township to estimate the expected impacts upon neighboring wells, particularly
taking into account drought conditions.
         (b)   Minimum lot area: ten acres, plus five acres for each 50,000
gallons per day of permitted water removal.
         (c)   Special exception approval shall not be required for
agricultural uses.
         (d)   Bottling operations shall only be allowed in the I District.
         (e)   The applicant shall estimate the amount of truck traffic that
will serve the site, and provide a traffic impact study by a qualified
professional to assess the impacts.
      (24)   Group home.
         (a)   There shall be no more than six residents, unless specifically
approved otherwise under §
155.029.
         (b)   There shall be 24-hour supervision by people qualified by
training and experience in the field for which the group home is intended.
         (c)   The use shall be licensed under the applicable state program, as
applicable.
         (d)   Any medical or counseling services provided shall be done so
only for residents.
         (e)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for:
            1.   The supervisor;
            2.   Each additional employee per shift; and
            3.   Every two residents.
         (f)   The group home activity shall not be related to criminal
rehabilitation of either juveniles or adults.
         (g)   If the group home is an existing or new structure, located in a
residential district or subdivision, it shall be maintained and/or constructed
to ensure that it is similar in appearance, condition and character to the
other residential structures in the area.
         (h)   The group home shall register its location, number of residents
and sponsoring agency with the township and such information shall be available
to the public.
         (i)   If there is a change of sponsor, management or type of client in
the group home, the use shall be reconsidered by the township.
         (j)   A statement setting forth full particulars on the operation to
be conducted and to include the approvals of the Pennsylvania Department of
Health, Labor and Industry, State and Public Welfare, Human Relations
Commission as well as to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 2000d et seq. shall be filed with the township where applicable.
         (k)   The group home shall provide the township with a certificate of
certification on an annual basis.
         (l)   This use shall not include a treatment center.
      (25)   Grower/processor.
         (a)   A medical marijuana grower/processor may only grow medical
marijuana in an indoor, enclosed, and secure building which includes electronic
locking systems, electronic surveillance and other features required by the
Department of Health. The grower/processor facility shall not be located in a
trailer, cargo container, mobile or modular unit, mobile home, recreational
vehicle, or other motor vehicle.
         (b)   The floor area of a medical marijuana grower/processor shall not
exceed 20,000 square feet and shall include space for production, secure
storage of marijuana seeds, related finished product, and marijuana related
materials and equipment used in production and cultivation or for required
laboratory testing.
         (c)   There shall be no emission of dust, fumes, vapors, odors or
waste into the environment from any facility where medical marijuana growing,
processing or testing occurs.
         (d)   Marijuana remnants and byproducts shall be secured and properly
disposed of in accordance with the Department of Health policy and shall not be
placed within any unsecured exterior refuse containers.
         (e)   The grower/processor shall provide only wholesale products to
other medical marijuana facilities. Retail sales and dispensing of medical
marijuana and related products is prohibited at medical marijuana grower/
processor facilities.
         (f)   Grower/processors may not locate within 1,000 feet of the
property line of a public, private, or parochial school or day-care center.
         (g)   Parking requirements shall follow the parking regulations found
in §
155.160 for all industrial uses (including warehousing, distribution and
manufacturing).
         (h)   A buffer yard as required by §
155.092(D) with a solid, non-transparent fence at a height of six feet from
ground to peak is required where a medical marijuana grower/processor adjoins a
residential use or district.
         (i)   Entrances and driveways to a medical marijuana grower/processor
must be designed to accommodate the anticipated vehicles used to service the
facility.
            1.   All accesses must secure the appropriate highway occupancy
permit and all access to a township road must secure a driveway permit.
            2.   The clear sight triangle found in §
155.092(C)(2) must be provided and maintained.
            3.   The access/driveway must be designed and improved to the
standards set forth in §
155.162(D).
         (j)   A grower/processor must be legally registered in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and possess a valid, current medical marijuana
permit from the Department of Health.
      (26)   Gun club/outdoor target range.
         (a)   All outdoor target ranges shall have a barrier behind the target
area, which is of sufficient height and thickness to adequately provide for the
public safety.
         (b)   The use shall comply with National Rifle Association standards
for the type of weapons that will be used.
         (c)   The area used for shooting and for any target area shall be
setback a minimum of 450 feet from any occupied building on another lot.
      (27)   Home occupation, general. The provisions under “home occupation”
in §
155.075 shall apply.
      (28)   Hospital.
         (a)   Shall be located on a lot abutting an arterial or collector
street as defined by the Official Street Classification Map.
         (b)   More than one access road of at least 20 feet in width shall be
provided from such arterial or collector street.
         (c)   More than one fire exit shall be provided.
         (d)   All facilities shall be located on the ground floor, unless and
elevator sufficient to accommodate rolling beds or litters provides access to
other than ground floor levels.
      (29)   Junkyard (includes auto salvage yard).
         (a)   Storage of putrescent garbage that was not generated on-site
shall be prohibited.
         (b)   All junk should be at least 200 feet from any adjoining lot.
         (c)   All junk should be at least 200 feet from any public highway,
road or street.
         (d)   The site shall contain at least two points of vehicle access,
each of which is not less than 30 feet in width.
         (e)   The site shall be completely enclosed by a buffer yard,
regardless of zoning district, which complies with the standards of §
155.092(D).
         (f)   The burning or incineration of vehicles or junk shall be
prohibited unless said burning is carried out in a completely enclosed
incinerator approved by the DEP.
         (g)   All junkyards shall also comply with the provisions of township
Ord. 15, as codified in
Chapter 112 of this code of ordinances.
      (30)   Kennel.
         (a)   All buildings in which animals are housed and all runs shall be
located at least 100 feet from all lot lines.
         (b)   Buildings shall be adequately soundproofed so that sounds
generated within the buildings cannot be perceived at the lot lines.
         (c)   Outdoor runs may be provided so long as a double evergreen
screen at least six feet in height is provided around the runs. No animal shall
be permitted to use the outdoor runs from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
         (d)   A buffer yard meeting §
155.092(D) shall be required between any kennel and any lot occupied by a
dwelling unless existing mature trees covering land with a minimum width of 20
feet will be preserved between the kennel and the adjacent dwelling.
         (e)   If more than 50 dogs are kept on the lot at any one time, then a
minimum setback of 200 feet shall apply for any building or outdoor area used
for the keeping of dogs or outdoor pens or runs from any lot line of a lot
occupied by a dwelling that is not in common ownership with the kennel.
         (f)   If a kennel is required to obtain a state license as a kennel,
and such state license expires, is suspended or revoked, then the township
zoning permit for the kennel shall also automatically be invalid during such
period of time.
      (31)   Laundry/laundromat. Centralized sewage disposal facilities and
centralized water supply facilities shall be provided.
      (32)   Lumber yard. Shall be on a lot abutting an arterial or collector
street (as defined by the Official Street Classification Map).
      (33)   Manufactured (mobile) home park.
         (a)   Shall have a minimum tract size of five acres and a maximum
overall density of no more than five manufactured homes per acres;
         (b)   Shall have centralized sewer and water;
         (c)   Shall have a 20-foot buffer yard around the perimeter of the
site; and
         (d)   All applicable provisions of the township subdivision and land
development ordinance shall be complied with.
      (34)   Medical marijuana delivery vehicle office.
         (a)   A traffic impact study is required for a medical marijuana
delivery vehicle office.
         (b)   Parking requirements shall follow the parking regulations found
in §
155.160, other than above.
         (c)   All external lighting serving a medical marijuana delivery
vehicle service must be shielded in such a manner to not allow light to be
emitted skyward or onto adjoining properties.
         (d)   A buffer yard as required by §
155.092(D) with a solid, non-transparent fence at a height of six feet from
ground to peak is required where a medical marijuana delivery vehicle office
center adjoins a residential use or district.
         (e)   Entrances and driveways to a medical marijuana delivery vehicle
office must be designed to accommodate the anticipated vehicles used to enter
and exit the premises.
            1.   All accesses must secure the appropriate highway occupancy
permit and all access to a township road must secure a driveway permit.
            2.   The clear sight triangle found in §
155.092(C)(2) must be provided and maintained.
            3.   The access/driveway must be designed and improved to the
standards set forth in §
155.162(D).
         (f)   If a medical marijuana product is to be temporarily stored at a
medical marijuana delivery vehicle service office, the office must be secured
to the same level as a medical marijuana grower/producer and dispensary.
         (g)   Loading and off-loading areas within the structure are
preferred. If an external loading dock arrangement is designed, it should be
from within a secure environment.
      (35)   Mineral extraction.
         (a)   The activities and residual effects shall not create conditions
hazardous or otherwise adverse to the value and use of adjacent properties or
the well being of the surrounding area and its residents.
         (b)   The site shall be reclaimed to a non-hazardous state permitting
activities and resulting condition of the site will not result in environmental
degradation of the surrounding area.
         (c)   A buffer yard shall completely enclose the site, regardless of
zoning district, which complies with all of the standards of §
155.092(D) (except such buffer yard shall be at least 50 feet in width) and
shall be set back from adjacent properties by at least 100 feet and from
residential structures by at least 200 feet (or such greater distance as may be
required by site conditions to protect adjacent properties as determined
necessary by the Zoning Hearing Board).
         (d)   Unique or environmentally significant natural features and
significant historic or architectural structures and sites shall be protected
from disruption or adverse effects from quarrying and/or mining activities.
      (36)   Motor vehicle race track.
         (a)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound that is perceptible from within a dwelling on another lot.
         (b)   Lighting perceptible beyond the property line shall be minimized
in accordance with §
155.123.
         (c)   The use shall also meet the other performance standards of §§
155.121,
155.122 and
155.123.
         (d)   The area used for racing of vehicles shall be setback a minimum
of 250 feet from any residential lot.
      (37)   Paper/pulp mill. Minimum lot area: ten acres.
      (38)   Place of worship. Shall be on a lot at least two acres in area,
unless it is within the C Commercial District.
      (39)   Public or private primary or secondary school. Two acre minimum
lot size, plus one acre for each 100 students.
      (40)   Restaurant.
         (a)   Shall screen all trash containers;
         (b)   Shall provide landscaping on all areas not covered by buildings,
structures, parking areas or access drives; and
         (c)   May provide an outdoor menu board (which shall not be considered
a sign) if drive-up service is provided from within the building to customers
in their vehicles.
      (41)   Self-storage development.
         (a)   All storage units shall be fireproof and waterproof. Each shall
have separate ingress and egress secured by a locking device.
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be limited to recreational vehicles,
campers and boats on trailers parked on paved areas. All such items must be
licensed and inspected (if applicable), and in operable condition.
         (c)   Trash, garbage, refuse, explosive or flammable materials,
hazardous substances, animal, animal carcasses or skins, or similar items shall
not be stored.
         (d)   Nothing shall be stored in interior traffic aisles, off-street
parking areas, loading areas or driveway areas.
         (e)   Servicing or repairing of boats, vehicles, trailers, lawn mowers
or any similar equipment shall not be permitted.
         (f)   Adequate lighting shall be provided to illuminate the area, but
directed away or shielded to direct light away from adjacent uses.
      (42)   Slaughterhouse.
         (a)   There shall be a minimum of a ten acre lot size.
         (b)   The buildings where slaughter takes place shall not be located
closer than 200 feet from all property lines except the dwelling of the owner
or lessee, and no closer than 500 feet from an existing dwelling or an approved
residential subdivision.
         (c)   The slaughterhouse shall comply with all applicable state and
federal regulations.
      (43)   Solid waste disposal area/facility.
         (a)   This term shall include a solid waste transfer facility, solid
waste landfill or solid waste-to-energy facility.
         (b)   All solid waste storage, disposal, incineration or processing
shall be at least 200 feet from the following: public street right-of-way;
exterior lot line; 100-year floodplain; edge of a surface water body (including
a water filled quarry); or wetland of more than one-half acre in area.
         (c)   All solid waste storage, disposal, incineration or processing
shall be a minimum of 500 feet from any of the following: a RS-R District; a S-
R District; a residential district in another municipality; a perennial creek;
a publicly-owned park or any existing dwelling that the applicant does not have
an agreement to purchase.
         (d)   The use shall be served by a minimum of two paved access roads,
each with a minimum cartway width of 24 feet. One of these roads may be
restricted to use by emergency vehicles.
         (e)   No burning or incineration shall occur, except within an
approved waste to energy facility.
         (f)   The operation and day to day maintenance of the solid waste
disposal area shall comply with all applicable state and federal regulations as
a condition of the continuance of any permit of the township. Violations of
this condition shall also be considered to be violations of this chapter.
         (g)   Open dumps and open burning of refuse are prohibited.
         (h)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Hearing Board that the existing street network can handle the additional truck
traffic, especially without bringing extraordinary numbers of trash hauling
trucks through or alongside existing residential or residentially zoned areas
and especially considering the width and slopes of streets in the township.
         (i)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Hearing Board that the use would not routinely create noxious odors off of the
tract.
         (j)   A chain link or other approved fence with a minimum height of
eight feet shall surround active solid waste disposal areas to prevent the
scattering of litter and to keep out children, unless the applicant proves to
the satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing Board that this is unnecessary. The
Board shall require earth berms, evergreen screening and/or shade trees as
needed shall be used to prevent landfill operations from being visible from an
expressway or arterial streets or dwellings.
         (k)   A minimum lot area of 15 acres shall be required for the first
250 tons per day of capacity to treat or dispose of waste, plus one acre for
each additional 100 tons per day of capacity. A solid waste facility shall have
a maximum total capacity of 500 tons per day.
         (l)   Health hazards: any facility shall be operated in such a manner
to prevent the attraction, harborage or breeding of insects, rodents or
vectors.
         (m)   Attendant: an attendant shall be present during all periods of
operation or dumping.
         (n)   Gates: secure gates, fences, earth mounds, and/or dense
vegetation shall prevent unauthorized access.
         (o)   Emergency access: the operator of the use shall cooperate fully
with local emergency services. This should include allowing practice exercises
on the site and the provision of all information needed by the emergency
services to determine potential hazards. Adequate means of emergency access
shall be provided.
         (p)   Under authority granted to the township under Act 101 of 1988,
the hours of operation shall be limited to between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
         (q)   Any storage of used tires shall be divided into separate piles
so that each pile contains a maximum of 200 tires and that are separated by
other tires by a minimum of 50 feet. No tires shall be stored on site for more
than 30 days and shall be limited to storage of tires that are awaiting
imminent disposal or reuse. Unless the tires are shredded, the tires shall be
covered by a material that avoids the presence of standing water inside the
tires.
         (r)   Litter: the operator shall regularly police the area of the
facility and surrounding streets to collect litter that may escape from the
facility or trucks.
         (s)   Dangerous materials: no radioactive, hazardous, chemotherapeutic
or infectious materials may be stored, processed, disposed or incinerated.
INFECTIOUS MATERIALS are defined as medical wastes used or created in the
treatment of persons or animals with seriously contagious diseases.
         (t)   The applicant shall provide sufficient information for the
township to determine that the requirements of this chapter will be met.
         (u)   State requirements: nothing in this chapter is intended to
supersede any state requirements. It is the intent of this chapter that when
similar issues are regulated on both the township and state levels, that the
stricter requirement shall apply for each aspect, unless it is determined that
an individual state regulation preempts township regulation in a particular
aspect. The applicant shall provide the Zoning Officer with a copy of all
written materials and plans that are submitted to PennDEP at the same time as
they are submitted to DEP.
         (v)   For a solid-waste-to-energy facility or solid waste transfer
facility, all loading and unloading of solid waste shall only occur within an
enclosed building, and over an impervious surface drains to a holding tank that
is then adequately treated. All solid waste processing and storage shall occur
within enclosed buildings or enclosed containers.
      (44)   Commercial stable or riding academy.
         (a)   The use shall be conducted on a lot at least ten acres in size.
         (b)   No new agricultural buildings, animal shelters, stables, or feed
yards shall be located closer than 500 feet from all dwellings except the
dwelling of the owner or lessee, or from all residential district boundaries.
New manure storage locations and amounts shall be consistent with the Nutrient
Management Act.
         (c)   No additions to existing agricultural buildings, animal
shelters, stables, or feed yards shall be located closer than 150 feet from all
property lines, residential district boundaries and dwellings except the
dwelling of the owner or lessee. New manure storage locations and amounts shall
be consistent with the Nutrient Management Act.
      (45)   Swimming club or non-household swimming pool.
         (a)   All pools shall be entirely enclosed with a good quality chain-
link or preferably a wooden or other equivalent fence of not less than six feet
in height.
         (b)   No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted which
will project sound that can be heard inside a dwelling on another lot.
         (c)   Lighting perceptible beyond the property line shall be minimized
in accordance with §
155.123.
      (46)   Treatment center.
         (a)   See definition in §
155.051.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide a written description of all
conditions (such as criminal parolees, alcohol addiction) that will cause
persons to occupy the use during the life of the permit. Any future additions
to this list shall require an additional special exception approval.
         (c)   The applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Hearing Board that the use will involve adequate on-site supervision and
security measures to protect public safety.
         (d)   The Zoning Hearing Board may place conditions upon the use to
protect public safety, such as conditions on the types of residents and
security measures.
         (e)   If the use involves five or more residents, a suitable
recreation area shall be provided that is supervised by the center’s staff.
      (47)   Trucking company terminal.
         (a)   As a condition of special exception approval, the Zoning Hearing
Board may require additional earth berming, setbacks, landscaping and lighting
controls as it determines to be necessary to provide compatibility with
adjacent dwellings.
         (b)   These measures shall be designed to minimum glare, noise, soot,
dust, air pollutants and other nuisances upon dwellings.
      (48)   Warehouse or wholesale.
         (a)   Truck parking and loading shall meet the minimum standards of
this chapter and in unique situations shall be provided according to maximum
standards of the industry for the specific type of warehouse, whole or
distribution activity to be conducted.
         (b)   Truck or rail access and operations shall not conflict with the
convenience and safety of auto traffic and parking.
         (c)   No storage of trash, garbage, refuse, explosive or flammable
materials, hazardous substances, animals, animal carcasses or skins, or similar
items shall be permitted.
      (49)   Wind turbine(s). Other than is allowed as an accessory use by §
155.075 (including, but not limited to, two or more wind turbines per lot, or a
wind turbine as a principal use).
         (a)   The wind turbine shall be setback from the nearest occupied
principal building on another lot a distance not less than two times the
maximum height to the top of the turbine, unless a written waiver is provided
by the owner of such building. The turbine height shall be the distance from
the ground level to the highest point of the turbine rotor plane. The setback
shall be measured from the base of the turbine to the nearest part of the
occupied principal building. This provision shall apply to buildings that
existed prior to the application for a zoning permit.
         (b)   The audible sound from the wind turbine(s) shall not exceed 50 A
weighted decibels, as measured at the exterior of a occupied principal building
on another lot, unless a written waiver is provided by the owner of such
building.
         (c)   The owner of the facility shall completely remove all above
ground structures within 12 months after the wind turbine(s) are no longer used
to generate electricity.
         (d)   Wind turbines shall not be climbable for at least the first 12
feet above the ground level.
         (e)   All wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest public
street right-of-way a minimum distance equal to the total height to the top of
the turbine hub, as measured from the center of the wind turbine base.
         (f)   All wind turbines shall be set back from the lot line a minimum
distance equal to the total height to the top of the turbine hub, as measured
from the center of the wind turbine base, unless a written waiver is provided
by the owner of such lot.
         (g)   If guy wires are used, and they are not within a fence, they
shall be marked near their base with reflectors, reflective tape or similar
method.
         (h)   The turbine shall include automatic devices to address high
speed winds.
         (i)   Accessory electrical facilities are allowed, such as a
transformer.
         (j)   The site plan shall shows the proposed facilities with the
proposed total heights, existing buildings, lot lines, driveways, minimum
setbacks, areas of woods proposed to be cleared and existing and proposed
underground lines in the area of proposed activity.
      (50)   Wireless communications facilities.
         (a)   It is the intent of this division (E)(50) to strike a balance
between the needs of wireless providers but maintain local authority over
decisions regarding the placement, construction and modification of wireless
communications facilities.
         (b)   Towers and antennas shall be regulated or permitted pursuant to
this division (E)(50), and shall not be regulated or permitted as essential
services, public utilities or private utilities.
         (c)   Upon the effective date of this section, all new towers,
antennas added to existing towers and new wireless communications facilities
shall be subject to the provisions of this division (E)(50) except for any
tower, or antenna added to an existing tower which:
            1.   Is less than 70 feet in height and is owned and operated by a
federally licensed amateur radio station operator; or
            2.   Is used exclusively as a “receive only” antenna.
         (d)   Each application shall contain the following information:
            1.   A copy of the FCC license of all proposed users of the
facility;
            2.   A legal description of the subject tract or parcel;
            3.   A description of the tower including its design
characteristics, the numbers and types of antennas which are proposed to be
located on the tower, the color of the tower, whether the tower will be
illuminated and whether the tower, if constructed, will accommodate co-location
of additional antennas for future users and the number of such potential future
users;
            4.   Documentation from the FCC, FAA and Pennsylvania Aeronautics
Division, and any other federal or state entity which regulates the wireless
communication facility, that if constructed, it would be in compliance with
current regulations, including but not limited to the mandate of the Hearing
Aid Compatibility Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, or that the
facility is exempt from those regulations;
            5.   A statement identifying the entities providing the backhaul
network for the tower and any other cellular sites owned or operated by the
applicant in the township;
            6.   Certification from a registered professional engineer that the
tower, if constructed, has structural capability and would meet current
standards for steel antenna towers and antenna supporting structures
established by the Electrical Industrial Association/Telecommunications
Industrial Association and any other regulatory body;
            7.   An inventory of the applicant’s existing towers, antennas or
sites approved for towers or antennas within the township, including specific
information about the location, height and design of each tower, antenna or
site;
            8.   A site plan meeting the requirements of §
155.022(D), and also showing the setback distance of the antenna or tower from
all property lines, street right-of-way lines, its distance from the nearest
residential unit and other existing wireless communication facilities located
within the township using exact global positioning satellites;
            9.   A landscaping plan meeting the requirements of division (B)
(50)(j)6. below and all other requirements of the township;
            10.   Documentation from the Lehigh-Northampton Airport Authority
that it is aware of the intent to locate a wireless communication facility; and
            11.   Certification with appropriate documentation from an engineer
that an intermodulation analysis has been performed demonstrating that the
proposed wireless communication facility will not cause undue interference to
existing facilities or undue hardship to the health, safety and welfare of the
community.
         (e)   Each application shall be accompanied by a deposit of $5,000
which shall be used by the township to contract with an independent consultant
(s) to evaluate the application to determine whether the proposal meets all
state and federal requirements, whether the use of existing towers or other
structures would satisfy the functional requirements of the applicant and
whether the proposal meets the requirements of this division (E)(46).
         (f)   For purposes of this section only, in addition to the other
requirements imposed by §
155.030(A), notice shall be given to the applicant, the Zoning Officer, the
Commission, the Board of Supervisors, the property owners within 500 feet of
the proposed lot upon which the wireless communications facility will be sited
and any other person or group (including civic or community organizations) who
has made a timely request for such notice, by personally delivering or mailing
a copy of the published notice.
         (g)   The applicant shall demonstrate, using technological evidence,
that the wireless communications facility must be sited where proposed to
satisfy its functional requirements.
         (h)   To encourage the co-location of wireless communications
facilities, the applicant shall demonstrate that no existing tower or structure
will accommodate the functional requirements because of the following:
            1.   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area;
            2.   Existing towers or structures are of an insufficient height;
            3.   Existing towers or structures have insufficient structural
strength to support the proposed facilities;
            4.   The proposed facilities would cause unacceptable
electromagnetic interference because of other existing facilities; and
            5.   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required of the
applicant by the owner of an existing tower or structure to share or adopt an
existing tower or structure are unreasonable.
         (i)   The tower or antenna should be set back a distance equivalent to
200% of the height of the tower. The setback lines shall be measured from the
nearest property or lease lot lines and existing street right-of-way lines or
the distance measured to the nearest property or lease line equal to the fall
zone.
         (j)   The following requirements apply to proposed towers.
            1.   The applicant shall provide certification from a registered
professional engineer that the tower would meet the wind resistance
requirements, stated in the applicable version of the International
Construction Code. The registered professional engineer shall also certify to
the overall structural integrity of the tower.
            2.   For all towers exceeding 200 feet in height, the applicant
shall provide documentation of FAA approval. For towers of 200 feet or less,
the requirements of 14 C.F.R. Part 77.13(a), as amended, must also be met.
            3.   No tower shall be artificially lighted except when required
and approved by the FAA or other regulatory agency. Where lighting is required
by a regulatory agency, the applicant must provide written documentation that
the proposed lighting is the minimum mandated by that agency.
            4.   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided
for each tower.
            5.   The base of the tower shall be surrounded by a secure fence,
with an anti-climbing device, with a minimum height of eight feet.
            6.   Landscaping shall be required and shown on the site plan to
screen the fence surrounding the tower and any other ground level features,
including buildings or parking areas. The landscaping shall consist of
evergreen plantings with a minimum height of six feet at planting, a minimum of
four feet wide, planted ten feet on center maximum, and with an expected growth
of a minimum of 15 feet at maturity. Existing mature tree growth and natural
landforms on the site shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible.
            7.   The towers shall have a galvanized steel finish and be painted
a neutral color, unless the regulatory authorities have provided documentation
mandating to the contrary. All buildings and related structures shall, to the
extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping
that will blend into the natural setting and surrounding buildings and
structures.
            8.   There shall be a separation distance of at least one-half mile
between towers measured from the center of the base of the existing tower to
the center of the base of the proposed tower.
            9.   The fall zone shall be equal to 200% of the height of the
tower. No structures other than a communications equipment building shall be
placed within the fall zone.
         (k)   The following requirements apply to proposed antennas.
            1.   The applicant shall provide certification from a registered
professional engineer stating that the antenna meets the wind resistance
requirements stated in the most current version of the BOCA National Building
Code. The registered professional engineer shall also certify to the overall
structural integrity of the tower and antenna.
            2.   For any antenna resulting in a facility in excess of 200 feet
in height, documentation of FAA approval shall be provided. If the facility is
less than 200 feet in height, the antenna shall meet the requirements of 14
C.F.R. § 77.13(a), as amended.
            3.   No antenna shall be artificially lighted except when required
and approved by the FAA or other regulatory agency. Where lighting is required
by a regulatory agency, the applicant must provide written documentation that
the proposed lighting is the minimum mandated by that agency.
            4.   Where an antenna is to be installed on a structure other than
a tower, the antenna and any supporting electrical and mechanical equipment
must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or compatible with, the color
of the supporting structure.
            5.   Where an antenna is to be installed on a tower or mounted on a
utility or light pole, any communications equipment building proposed on the
lot shall be no greater than 200 square feet of gross floor area and no more
than ten feet in height. A dense planting screen with a planted height of at
least six feet shall screen the communications equipment building.
            6.   Where an antenna is to be mounted on a structure or rooftop,
any communications equipment building proposed on the lot shall be no greater
than 100 square feet of gross floor area and no more than ten feet in height.
If the structure or rooftop is less than 65 feet in height, any proposed
communications equipment building must be located on the ground. If the
communications equipment building is located on the rooftop, the area of the
communications equipment building shall be less than 20% of the total rooftop
area.
         (l)   No signs except those mandated by regulatory bodies shall be
permitted on the lot where the tower or antenna is to be located.
         (m)   Within 45 days of the decision of the Zoning Hearing Board, the
township shall provide an itemized statement of expenses incurred by its
independent consultant(s). Any used monies shall be returned to the applicant.
         (n)   As a condition to obtaining a zoning permit, the applicant
agrees to the following:
            1.   To carry with insurance companies with an A.M. Best rating of
at least A- or 6, liability insurance for its use and activities on the
proposed lot, which coverage shall be a minimum coverage of $500,000/$1,000,000
for personal injury, property damage and/or death, and shall furnish to the
township a certificate of insurance evidencing its compliance with this
requirement;
            2.   If the wireless communications facility is located on property
owned or leased by the township, then in that instance alone, to indemnify and
save harmless the township, its officers, agents and employees, from any and
all claims for damages asserted by anyone as a result of injury to person or
property, loss or damage resulting from it or in any way related to the
approval given or to the activities conducted on the proposed lot;
            3.   If the tower or antenna remains unused for a period of 12-
consecutive months, the applicant, owner and/or operator, shall dismantle and
remove the tower or antenna within 90 days of notice to do so by the township.
Security shall be posted, in a form acceptable to the township in its favor in
such amount to remove the wireless communications facility and site clean-up,
which security may be utilized by the township in the event the applicant,
owner and/or operator fails to remove it within 90 days of notification from
the township. If there are two or more users of a single tower, then this
condition shall not become effective until all users have abandoned the tower
or antenna. The amount of security shall be determined by the Zoning Officer
and shall be payable before the issuance of any permit;
            4.   Annually, the township, through its independent consultant,
shall inspect the wireless communications facility to verify that it is
constructed, maintained and functioning in accordance with the approval given
by the Zoning Hearing Board. The owner and/or operator shall be billed 60 days
in advance of the inspection date, and the failure to remit payment to the
township in advance of the inspection date shall be conclusive evidence that
the owner and/or operator has abandoned the use permitted by the special
exception; and
            5.   Within ten days of completion of the wireless communication
facility, a registered professional engineer shall certify, in writing, to the
township that the wireless communications facility has been constructed
pursuant to the approval given by the Zoning Hearing Board, and the
requirements of this zoning chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 153, passed 8-17-2017; Ord. 170, passed - -
2023)
§ 155.075 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   In general. An accessory use on the same lot and customarily
incidental to a permitted principal use is permitted by right.
   (B)   Yard requirements. Every accessory use shall comply with the yard
regulations for the district in which it is located, except as otherwise
specifically provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Special standards. Each accessory use shall comply with all of the
following standards listed for that use.
      (1)   Bus shelter. Bus shelters may be erected and maintained for the
convenience and safety of school children and resident commuters in any zoning
district of the township on the following terms and conditions.
         (a)   Shelters shall not exceed seven feet in width, eight feet in
length (depth), and seven feet in height and shall be set upon and firmly
anchored to reinforced concrete pads at least four inches thick. A mud-free
approach from the side of the street on which the shelter fronts to the shelter
itself shall be installed.
         (b)   Shelters shall in all cases be located on private property.
         (c)   No shelter shall be erected on private property without the
owner or owners of such private property having first given written permission
or lease authorizing the erection and maintenance of the shelter thereon.
         (d)   Shelters erected for the convenience of the school children
shall be erected only at locations designated as official school bus stops by
the Board of Directors of East Penn School District or the Board of Directors
of such other school district of which the township shall be a part. Shelters
erected for the convenience of resident commuters shall be erected only at
locations approved by the Board of Supervisors, upon Planning Commission
recommendation; provided, however, that there shall be a distance of at least
1,000 feet between shelters regardless of the purpose for which they are
erected.
         (e)   Shelters erected between intersections shall be located at least
one foot back from the legal right-of-way line (property line) of the street
intersection properties where the side of the shelter is less than 50 from the
legal right-of-way line (property line) of the street at the side of shelter
shall be set back at least 15 feet from the legal right-of-way line (property
line) of the street on which the shelter fronts. Shelters shall also be located
at least 15 feet away from the side property lines of the property on which the
shelter is located unless the owner of the adjoining property gives written
permission of consent to have said shelter placed closer than 15 feet from said
side property line.
         (f)   Shelters may bear advertising displays not exceeding 32 square
feet in size on each side of the shelter; provided, however, that advertisement
of intoxicating beverages or tobacco products shall not be displayed on any
shelter.
         (g)   Shelters shall at all time be properly maintained and kept in
repair by the owner thereof. They shall be kept clean, free of papers and
debris, and free of obscene writings and marking on any part thereof.
         (h)   The owner of each shelter shall cause the same to be covered by
liability insurance issued by a reputable insurance company insuring the owner
of the shelter, the owner of the land on which the shelter is erected, and the
township against any and all liability for personal injury, death or property
damage. The limits for coverage for such insurance policy shall be $250,000 to
$300,000 for each occurrence. The township shall be furnished a certificate by
the company issuing such policy certifying that such policy has been purchased,
that it is in full force and effect, and that the same will not be cancelled
without the township first being given ten days’ prior written notice of the
intention to cancel said policy.
         (i)   No shelter shall be erected until the Zoning Officer shall have
issued a permit authorizing such erection. Application for such permit shall be
made to the Zoning Officer on a form prescribed by him or her, which
application for shall be accompanied by:
            1.   A copy of a written lease signed by the owners of the ground
on which the shelter is to be erected authorizing such erection;
            2.   A picture or diagram of the proposed shelter indicating the
dimensions thereof;
            3.   A plot plan showing the location of the proposed shelter on
the private property and indicating the setback of said side street;
            4.   In the case of shelters erected for the convenience of school
children, a certification from the proper school district officials certifying
that the proposed location is an official school-bus stop; and
            5.   A permit fee of $2.50.
         (j)   1.   The Zoning Officer may order the removal of any shelter
which:
               a.   Is not properly maintained and kept in repair;
               b.   Is erected or maintained contrary to the terms of this
chapter;
               c.   Is no longer covered by insurance as herein required;
               d.   Is located on private property for which a valid lease is
no longer in existence; and
               e.   When the location at which the shelter is situated has
ceased to be an officially designated bus stop for a period of three years.
            2.   In the event that such removal is ordered, the shelter shall
be removed and the premises restored to its original condition within 30 days
of said order of removal.
         (k)   Upon removal of any shelter, whether such removal is voluntary
on the part of the owner thereof; or is ordered by the Zoning Officer as herein
provided, the same shall be completely dismantled and removed so that no part
of the same remains at its former location and the property on which it was
located shall be restored to the original condition in which it was immediately
prior to the time said shelter was first erected.
      (2)   Commercial or industrial outdoor storage and display.
         (a)   Location. Shall not occupy any part of the street right-of-way,
area intended or designed for pedestrian use, required parking area, or part of
the required front yard.
         (b)   Size. Shall occupy an area less than one-half the existing
building coverage. A special exception may be authorized by the Zoning Hearing
Board for no more than 25% of the lot area to be used for outdoor storage or
display.
      (3)   Drive-through facilities.
         (a)   The proposed traffic flow and ingress-egress shall not cause
traffic hazards on adjacent streets.
         (b)   On-lot traffic circulation and parking areas shall be clearly
marked.
         (c)   A drive-through use shall be designed with space for an adequate
number of waiting vehicles while avoiding conflicts with traffic onto, around
and off of the site. Any drive-through facilities shall be designed to minimize
conflicts with pedestrian traffic.
      (4)   Dwelling unit as an accessory use to a nonresidential use.
         (a)   No more than one dwelling unit shall be permitted for any
nonresidential principal use.
         (b)   The floor area of the dwelling unit shall not exceed the floor
area of the nonresidential use (if primarily within a building) of 50% of the
ground area of the nonresidential use (if primarily outdoor).
      (5)   Farm pond.
         (a)   The developer of any farm pond shall obtain all required state
and federal permits.
         (b)   No farm pond shall be of such a size or character as to create
any dangerous, noxious or objectionable condition.
      (6)   Farm-based business. This use may be approved on a lawful existing
lot with a minimum lot area of not less than ten contiguous acres in area, or
less than ten contiguous acres in area but has an anticipated yearly gross
income of at least $10,000.
         (a)   A farm-based business shall be defined as a low-intensity
commercial or industrial activity that functions as a customary accessory use
to an on-site principal agricultural use. Farm-based businesses are intended to
provide supplemental income to farmers to encourage the continuation of
farming, and to provide needed services to other farmers. Normal agricultural
operations as that term is defined in the Right-to-Farm Act are exempt from
this definition.
         (b)   A farm-based business shall be conducted by a resident or owner
of the property, his or her “relatives”, and a maximum total of four other
employees working on-site at one time, in addition to employees of the
agricultural use. In addition, a building that was constructed for agricultural
purposes prior to the adoption of this section may be leased to a nonresident
for a use meeting these standards.
         (c)   To the maximum extent feasible, a farm-related business should
use an existing building. Buildings that existed prior to the effective date of
this section may be used for a farm-related business. Any new building
constructed for a farm-related business and any new parking area for trucks
shall be set back equivalent to the underlying zoning district in which the
farm-based business is located; however, if animals are housed within a new
building, then the setback requirement shall be the greater of the underlying
zoning district or the requirements set forth in the Nutrient Management Act.
         (d)   The farm-based business shall not routinely require the
overnight parking of more than two tractor-trailer trucks, other than trucks
serving the agricultural use.
         (e)   Any manufacturing operations shall be of a custom nature and
shall be conducted indoors.
         (f)   The business shall not generate noxious odors, noise or glare
beyond amounts that are typically generated by agricultural operations. Non-
agricultural operations shall not routinely occur in a manner that generates
traffic or noise heard by neighbors between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.
         (g)   Any retail sales shall only be occasional in nature, and shall
occur by appointment or during a maximum of 20 hours per week (except customary
retail sales as part of a barber/beauty shop). This provision shall not
restrict permitted sale of agricultural commodities.
         (h)   Only one sign shall advertise a farm-based business, which shall
have a maximum sign area of ten square feet on each of two sides, and which
shall not be internally illuminated, and which shall have a maximum height of
six feet.
         (i)   1.   The following activities, and activities that the applicant
proves to the Zoning Hearing Board are closely similar, shall be permitted as
farm-based businesses:
               a.   Farm equipment or farm vehicle repair;
               b.   Occasional repair of one motor vehicle at a time, beyond
those vehicles owned or leased by a resident of the property or his or her
relative, but not including a junkyard, auto body shop or spray painting;
               c.   Welding and custom machining of parts;
               d.   Sale, processing or mixing of seeds, feed, chemical
fertilizers or wood/ leaves/bark compost;
               e.   Barber/beauty shops;
               f.   Construction tradesperson’s headquarters;
               g.   Music, hobby, trade or art instruction for up to ten
persons at a time;
               h.   Small engine repair;
               i.   Custom woodworking or wood refinishing;
               j.   Custom blacksmithing or sharpening services;
               k.   Rental storage of household items, vehicles, boats and
building materials;
               l.   Boarding of animals, not including a kennel or a commercial
stable or riding academy (which are separate uses);
               m.   Custom butchering, not including a commercial
slaughterhouse or stockyard;
               n.   Processing and storage of agricultural commodities;
               o.   Sawmill; or
               p.   Commercial farm tourism and special events, such as farm
tours and Halloween activities.
            2.   See also commercial stable or riding academy (§
155.068(B)(4) and (B)(5)) and retail sales of agricultural  commodities
(division (C)(13) below), which are treated as separate uses.
         (j)   This division (C)(6) shall not regulate agricultural uses that
are permitted under other provisions of this chapter.
         (k)   If an activity would be permitted as either a farm-based
business or a home occupation, then the applicant may choose which set of
provisions shall apply.
         (l)   One off-street parking space shall be provided per nonresident
employee, plus parking for any dwelling. In addition, the applicant shall prove
to the Zoning Officer that sufficient parking will be available for customers,
which is not required to be paved.
         (m)   All existing and new buildings shall maintain a residential or
agricultural appearance, as viewed from a public street.
         (n)   The use shall not involve the storage or use of highly
hazardous, toxic, radioactive, flammable or explosive substances, other than
types typically used in agriculture or a household.
         (o)   Landscaping shall be placed between any outdoor storage of non-
agricultural materials or products and any adjacent dwelling from which storage
would be visible.
         (p)   The lot shall have provisions for trucks to turn around on the
site without backing onto a public street. When special exception approval is
required, the Zoning Hearing Board shall consider the suitability of the
adjacent roads for the amount and weights of truck traffic that will be
generated.
      (7)   Heliport.
         (a)   The Pennsylvania Bureau of Aviation within the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation shall find the landing area safe and acceptable
for licensing a heliport.
         (b)   The Federal Aviation Administration shall have granted approval
for the use of the air space.
      (8)   Home occupation, major or minor.
         (a)   The home occupation shall not be conducted on the premises
outside of a building.
         (b)   The home occupation shall not exceed 25% of the floor area of
the principal dwelling unit.
         (c)   There shall be no outside storage of materials.
         (d)   There shall be no use of show windows or any type of display or
advertising visible from outside the premises, except for a single sign no
larger than two square feet in size constructed and placed in accordance with
§§
155.135 through
155.146.
         (e)   No more than one employee may work on the premises at the same
time who are not residents of the principal dwelling unit.
         (f)   No servicing by truck in excess of three times per week shall be
permitted.
         (g)   Uses permitted as a home occupation include: art studio, barber
shop, beauty shop, professional office and instruction of not more than four
pupils simultaneously (or in case of musical instruction, not more than three
pupils simultaneously).
         (h)   The following uses shall not be permitted as a home occupation:
animal hospital, commercial stable or riding academy, kennels, funeral parlor,
retail store or restaurant.
         (i)   No machinery or equipment shall be permitted that produces
noise, odor, vibration, light or electrical interference beyond the boundary of
the property.
         (j)   Parking and loading: adequate space for off-street parking and
loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
155.160 through
155.164.
         (k)   Building appearance: there shall be no reduction in the existing
outside residential appearance of the building or premises or other visible
evidence of the conduct of a home occupation. Outdoor storage of material and
equipment shall be prohibited.
         (l)   Nuisance: no machinery or equipment shall be permitted that
produces noise, odor, vibration, light or electrical interference beyond the
boundary of the property.
         (m)   Business vehicles: a maximum of two vehicles, which are used for
a home occupation shall be permitted on the lot of the home occupation. No one
vehicle shall exceed 10,000 pounds. Nor shall the combined vehicle (motorized
or non-motorized such as a trailer or equipment) that is attached together
exceed 10,000 pounds.
         (n)   In addition to the requirements listed in this division (C)(8),
the following additional requirements shall apply to a “minor home occupation”.
            1.   The use shall not routinely involve routine visits to the home
occupation by customers or more than one nonresident employee at a time.
            2.   The use shall only involve the following activities:
               a.   Work routinely conducted within an office;
               b.   Custom sewing and fabric and basket crafts;
               c.   Cooking and baking for off-site sales and use;
               d.   Creation of visual arts (such as painting or wood carving);
               e.   Repairs to and assembly of computers and computer
peripherals; and
               f.   A construction tradesperson, provided that no nonresident
employees routinely operate from the lot.
      (9)   Keeping animals or fowl. (Note: this does not pertain to animal
husbandry as a principal use which is regulated by § 155.073(B)(2).)
         (a)   The maximum number of animals permitted per acre, or for lots
less than one acre, per lot, shall be as follows.
 AC, R-A, CON District RS-R, C, I, V Districts S-R Districts
                     AC, R-A, CON District RS-R, C, I, V          S-R Districts
                                           Districts
Customary household
pets and domestic    5                     5                      5
animals*
                     1 per 3/4 acre of lot 1 per acre of lot with
Large animals****    with 10 maximum with  5 maximum with a       *****
                     a minimum lot size of minimum lot size of 2
                     1-1/2 acres           acres
Rabbits/large fowl** 25                    14                     14
Smaller fowl***      25 Pair               25 Pair                25 Pair
* Such as dogs, cats and the like
** Such as chickens, turkeys and the like
*** Such as pigeons and quail
**** Such as cattle, horses, goats, pigs and the like
***** Under special circumstances large animals may be permitted in the S-
R District as a special exception, pursuant to the provisions of §
155.074
 
         (b)   Six or more adult dogs or cats shall constitute a kennel.
         (c)   Commercial use: commercial breeding or use of animals shall not
be permitted under this use.
         (d)   Animals shall be kept under control on the owner’s property.
         (e)   No large animals or large fowl shall be housed within 100 feet
of an adjacent residential dwelling. Manure storage locations and amounts shall
be consistent with the Nutrient Management Act.
         (f)   No small fowl shall be housed or permitted to congregate within
the required front yard.
         (g)   No manure shall be stored within 100 feet of a private water
supply and no manure shall be spread on lawns.
      (10)   Noncommercial swimming pool. A commercial swimming pool designed
to contain a water depth of 24 inches or more shall not be located,
constructed, or maintained on any lot or land area except in conformity with
the following requirements.
         (a)   Permit. A zoning permit shall be required to locate, construct
or maintain a noncommercial swimming pool; the permit must be certified by the
Sewage Enforcement Officer.
         (b)   Location. Such pool shall be located in a rear or side yard
only. No above or in-ground pool shall be located within 15 feet of a side or
rear lot line or under any electrical lines, or over any lot sewage disposal
field or system.
         (c)   Fence. Every in-ground noncommercial swimming pool shall be
entirely enclosed with a childproof fence of not less than four feet in height
equipped with a self-closing and self-latching gate. Above ground pools shall
not require a fence, but shall require a self-closing and self-latching gate to
any pool access platform.
         (d)   Water. If the water for such pool is supplied from a private
well, there shall be no cross-connection with the public water supply system.
If the water for such pool is supplied from the public water system, the inlet
shall be above the overflow level of said pool.
         (e)   Drainage. The draining of all pools shall occur in a manner that
does not cause soil erosion and does not directly drain the water into a
perennial creek.
         (f)   Noise. No loudspeaker or amplifying device shall be permitted
which will project sound that can be heard inside a dwelling on another lot.
         (g)   Lighting. Lighting perceptible beyond the property line shall be
minimized in accordance with §
155.123.
      (11)   Recreational vehicle, parking of one. No recreational vehicle or
unit shall be stored for a period of three consecutive months within a front
yard or within ten feet of a side yard or a rear yard line.
      (12)   Residential accessory building, structure or use. Permitted
residential accessory buildings, structures or uses includes the following.
         (a)   Fences and walls.
            1.   Fences and walls in the required side and rear yard areas
shall not exceed six feet in height (except tennis court fences which shall not
exceed ten feet in height), and shall be at least two feet from a lot line or
easement line unless the abutting property owner agrees in writing to allow it
to be closer.
            2.   Fences or walls placed in the required front yard shall not
exceed six feet in height and shall be no closer than one feet to a property
line.
         (b)   Building.
            1.   An accessory building or a swimming pool shall not be allowed
in the minimum required front yard. If an accessory building intrudes into the
minimum rear or side yard for a principal building, then division (C)(12)(b)2.
below shall apply.
            2.   Accessory structures may be located within the required side
and rear yard as follows:
 
Size of Accessory Structure Height Requirements   Required Side and Rear Yards*
                                                  Located up to within 5 feet
Up to 144 square feet       Not to exceed 10 feet of a side or rear property
                                                  line
                                                  Located up to within 10 feet
Over 144 square feet        Not to exceed 20 feet of a side or rear property
                                                  line
*Note: In some zoning districts the above yards may be permitted at a lesser
distance if allowed by the particular zoning district.
 
      (13)   Retail sale of agricultural commodities.
         (a)   The use shall be an accessory use incidental to the agricultural
use, agricultural industry or orchard.
         (b)   A minimum of 25% of the products offered for sale shall have
been produced by the operator of the sales, his or her relatives and/or on
other farms within the township.
         (c)   The building or area where products are displayed or sold shall
be at least 50 feet from an intersection and shall be at least 20 feet from the
cartway.
         (d)   Parking shall be provided in compliance with the provisions of
§§
155.160 through
155.164.
      (14)   Seasonal roadside produce market. Roadside produce markets for the
sale of dairy, farm or nursery products are permitted with the following
restrictions.
         (a)   Size. The area where products are displayed or sold shall not
exceed 800 square feet.
         (b)   Location. The stand shall be at least 50 feet from an
intersection, and shall be at least 20 feet from the cart-way.
         (c)   Removal in off-season. The stand shall be portable, shall be
maintained in good condition and shall be removed during seasons when products
are not being offered for sale.
         (d)   Parking. Parking for vehicles shall be provided off the existing
and future right-of-way and in compliance with provisions of §§
155.160 through
155.164.
      (15)   Solar energy system. No solar energy system shall deny solar
access of existing active solar collection devices on adjacent lots. Solar
energy collectors attached to the roof of a building may exceed the maximum
height limit by ten feet.
      (16)   Temporary structure or use. A temporary permit may be issued by
the Zoning Officer for structures or uses necessary during construction or
other special circumstances of a nonrecurring nature subject to the following
additional provisions:
         (a)   Duration. The life of such permit shall not exceed one year and
may be renewed for an aggregate period of not more than two years.
         (b)   Removal. Such structure or use shall be removed completely upon
expiration of the permit without cost to the township. If not removed by the
owner upon expiration of the permit, the township may remove such structure or
use and recover the costs for the removal from the owner.
      (17)   Tennis court.
         (a)   A tennis court shall not be located in front of the principal
building and shall not be located within any required yard areas.
         (b)   No lighting shall shine directly beyond a boundary of the lot
where the tennis court is located.
         (c)   Noise levels shall comply with §
155.120.
         (d)   A tennis court shall not be located on a drainage field of a
sewage disposal system.
      (18)   Wind turbine, maximum of one per lot as accessory use, that is
primarily intended to generate electricity for on-site use.
         (a)   All wind turbines shall be set back from the lot line a minimum
distance equal to the total height to the top of the maximum extended turbine
blade, as measured from the center of the wind turbine base, unless a written
waiver is provided by the owner of such adjacent lot.
         (b)   The audible sound from the wind turbine shall not exceed 50 A
weighted decibels, as measured at the exterior of a occupied principal building
on another lot, unless a written waiver is provided by the owner of such
building.
         (c)   The owner of the facility shall completely remove all above
ground structures within 12 months after the wind turbine is no longer used to
generate electricity.
         (d)   A wind turbine shall not be climbable for at least the first 12
feet above the ground level.
         (e)   All wind turbines shall be set back from the nearest public
street right-of-way a minimum distance equal to the total height to the top of
the turbine hub, as measured from the center of the wind turbine base.
         (f)   If guy wires are used, and they are not within a fence, they
shall be marked near their base with reflectors, reflective tape or similar
method.
         (g)   The turbine shall include automatic devices to address high
speed winds, such as mechanical brakes and overspeed controls.
         (h)   In a CON, R-A, RS-R, S-R, VC or VR district, the maximum total
height above the ground level to the tip of the extended blade shall be 85
feet, except it may be 100 feet if the turbine will be setback more than 200
feet from any lot line. In any other district, such maximum height shall be 150
feet.
         (i)   All new electrical wiring leading from a wind turbine shall be
located underground.
         (j)   A plot plan shall be submitted which shows the proposed
facilities with the proposed total height, existing buildings, lot lines,
minimum setbacks, areas of woods proposed to be cleared and existing and
proposed underground lines in the area of proposed activity.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013; Ord. 170, passed - -
2023)
§ 155.076 CONSERVATION/OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT OPTION.
   (A)   Purposes. To allow reasonable amounts of flexibility in site planning
of residential development to:
      (1)   Protect environmentally sensitive areas and avoid severe soil
erosion and sedimentation;
      (2)   Avoid severely increased storm water flows and speeds;
      (3)   Preserve areas of prime farmland;
      (4)   Provide additional recreation land;
      (5)   Direct development to those areas that are more physically suited
for it;
      (6)   Avoid construction of steep roads that are difficult, time-
consuming, and expensive to maintain and plow snow upon;
      (7)   Avoid increased use of steep roads and driveways that are dangerous
to drive upon in snow and ice,
      (8)   Conserve forested areas that are an important part of the
ecological cycle, providing for groundwater recharge, air pollution reduction
and wildlife habitats,
      (9)   Reduce construction costs and municipal maintenance costs,
      (10)   Provide for transitional forms of development between residential
and agricultural or industrial areas or highways, with open space serving as a
buffer, and
      (11)   Allow each property owner a reasonable use of their land, related
directly to the features and location and accessibility of the land. This
option will encourage the establishment of significant areas of preserved open
space.
   (B)   Applicability. This section allows an applicant the option to reduce
the minimum lot areas on tracts of land if the applicant proves compliance with
all of the requirements of this section to the satisfaction of the township.
      (1)   The Conservation/Open Space Development Option Overlay District
(“COSDO-OD”) is an overlay established to permit conservation/open space
development design within the areas designated on the Official Zoning Map.
Conservation/open space development shall be permitted by right solely within
the COSDO-OD, in accordance with the minimum requirements set forth in this
section. In the absence of a specific standard for conservation/open space
development design appearing in this section, the provisions of the base zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   Uses. A COSDO shall only include the following uses: single family
detached dwellings, nature preserves, township-owned recreation, recreation
uses that the township approves to be within the preserved open space, crop
farming, raising and keeping of horses, customary keeping of livestock as
accessory to crop farming, utilities necessary to serve the development, and
customary permitted accessory uses. A manufactured home park shall not qualify
as a COSDO. In addition, a twin dwelling unit with the dwelling units separated
by a vertical wall shall be allowed as long as each unit is on a separate lot.
      (3)   A tract shall be eligible for approval for a COSDO if it includes a
minimum of 25 acres of lot area in common ownership. Such land area shall be
contiguous, except that portions of the tract may be separated only by existing
or proposed streets or creeks.
         (a)   The amount of preserved open space shall be based upon the total
lot area of all lots within the development, prior to subdivision.
            1.   Areas that were preserved by a conservation or agricultural
preservation easement or deed restriction prior to the submittal of the
subdivision plan shall not be counted towards the area of the tract in
calculating preserved open space or allowed density.
            2.   See the definition of “Open Space, Preserved” in §
155.051. That definition provides that certain features not count towards
preserved open space. Areas used for a principal non-residential use (other
than uses approved by the township to be part of the preserved open space, such
as an agricultural barn) shall not be included within the land area used to
calculate residential density.
         (b)   Conservation easements or deed restrictions shall be established
on lots as necessary to ensure that the maximum density requirement is met
overtime. Such conservation easements shall prevent the re-subdivision of lots
in a manner that would violate this section.
      (4)   A COSDO shall be designed as a unified, coordinated residential
development, and shall be approved with a single development plan proposed by a
single development entity. After final subdivision approval and within an
approved development agreement(s) and phasing plan, portions of the development
may be transferred to different entities, provided that there is compliance
with the approved development plan and this section.
      (5)   Procedures. Applicants must first submit a layout plan and an
existing features plan for review by the township for zoning compliance. The
applicant and township officials are strongly encouraged to walk the tract
after a detailed existing features map has been provided to the township, but
before the site layout has been finalized before completing detailed fully
engineered preliminary subdivision plans. This two-step process will allow the
township and the applicant to mutually agree upon the preserved open space and
development layout before large sums of money are spent by the applicant on
detailed engineering. Detailed stormwater, grading, utility, profile and
erosion control plans shall not be required at the zoning compliance review
stage if such matters will be submitted as part of the subdivision or land
development approval process.
   (C)   Density, open space and lot standards. The maximum number of dwelling
units on the tract shall be determined based upon an existing features map and
a yield plan.
      (1)   An existing features map shall be required to be submitted as part
of the application for a COSDO. This existing features ,ap shall accurately
show the locations of the following at a minimum: wetlands, 100-year
floodplains, areas of woodland, existing topography, existing buildings with a
description of any buildings over 70 years old, highlighting of 15% to 25%
slopes and 25% and greater slopes, and any major scenic views from within the
tract or from outside of the tract.
      (2)   A yield plan shall be submitted to the township by the applicant.
The yield plan shall accurately show the maximum number of dwelling units that
would be possible under current township ordinances if the conservation/open
space development provisions would not be used, and instead the provisions for
conventional development in the applicable zoning district would be used. The
yield plan shall be completed to an accurate scale, including accurately
showing the existing feature map information described above. The yield plan
shall show potential lots, streets, and retention/detention pond locations.
However, the yield plan shall not serve as, and is not required to contain, the
engineering detail requirements of a preliminary subdivision plan.
      (3)   The yield plan shall be reviewed by the Zoning Officer or the
Township Engineer, and then determined by the Planning Commission as to whether
it represents a reasonably accurate estimate of the number of dwelling units
possible on the site, both physically and legally. If such estimates are
determined to not be accurate, the applicant shall be required by the Zoning
Officer or the Township Engineer to revise the yield plan until it is accurate.
         (a)   The maximum number of dwelling units allowed on the tract
through COSDO shall be the same as the number of dwelling units that is
determined by the township to be possible under the township-accepted yield
plan.
         (b)   The allowed number of dwelling units may be rounded to the
nearest whole number.
         (c)   The yield plan shall not have any legal standing except for the
purposes of determining density for a COSDO.
      (4)   All provisions of this zoning ordinance and the applicable zoning
district shall apply, except for provisions that are specifically modified by
this section. For example, lots in a COSDO shall comply with any requirements
of this chapter to delete certain natural features from lot area of individual
lots. The following dimensional requirements shall apply, provided that the
total maximum density for the tract is not exceeded and central sewer and
central water services are provided:
         (a)   R-A District. The minimum lot area shall be 21,780 square feet
(one-half acre). The reduced dimensions in this division shall only apply if
central sewage and central water services are provided.
            1.   For single family detached dwellings the minimum lot area
shall be 21,780 square feet (see natural feature regulations including §
155.112 for steep slopes. The minimum lot area is per dwelling unit.) The same
dimensional requirements shall apply as are provided for in conventional
development in the R-A District, except that the minimum lot width shall be
reduced to 110 feet. The minimum front yard setback shall be reduced to 30
feet. The minimum side yard setback shall be reduced to 45 feet total with a
20-foot minimum on one side. The maximum percent of impervious cover shall
increase to 30%. These dimensions shall only apply if central sewage and
central water services are provided. A minimum of 50% of the total lot area of
the tract (prior to subdivision) shall be preserved as preserved open space.
            2.   For twin dwelling units, the following dimensional
requirements shall apply: The minimum lot area shall be 21,780 square feet (see
natural feature regulations including §
155.112 for steep slopes. The minimum lot area is per dwelling unit.) The
minimum lot width shall be 110 feet per dwelling unit. The minimum front yard
setback shall be 30 feet. The minimum rear yard setback shall be 50 feet. The
minimum side yard setback shall be 40 feet on one side and zero feet on the
other side where the shared lot line of the lawfully attached dwelling is. The
maximum percent of building coverage is 25%. The maximum percent of impervious
coverage is 25%. Only side-by-side dwellings shall be allowed. These reduced
dimensions shall only apply if central sewage and central water services are
provided.
      (5)   Utilities. Any lot with a lot area of less than one acre per
dwelling unit shall be served by township-approved centralized sewer service
and a township-approved centralized water system.
      (6)   Subdivision of part of a tract. This division (C)(6) addresses a
situation in which only part of a lot is proposed to be subdivided, and the
applicant at the present time does not intend to subdivide for the maximum
number of dwellings allowed by this section. In such case, the applicant shall
establish a permanent conservation easement covering preserved open space to
comply with this section. Because only part of the tract is being subdivided,
it may not be necessary to meet the preserved open space requirement based upon
the area of the entire tract.
         (a)   The land under the conservation easement shall be a shape that
is approved by the township and shall be located where it could adjoin land
that would be added as preserved open space in the future if the total allowed
number of dwellings would be developed.
         (b)   The following hypothetical example assumes a tract includes 50
acres, and the yield plan determines that the applicant for a COSDO is allowed
a total of 30 new dwellings. In this example, the applicant only wishes to
subdivide lots for ten new dwellings at the present time, which is one-third of
the total number of allowed dwellings. At the present time, only one-third of
the open space would need to be preserved, compared to if all of the allowed
housing units would be developed. However, the preserved open space would need
to be placed on the tract at a location where it could be joined by the
remaining acres of land under a conservation easement if the applicant in the
future decided to subdivide lots for the remaining 20 dwelling units that are
allowed.
      (7)   A minimum of 80% of the required preserved open space shall be in
one contiguous lot, except that the preserved open space may be separated by
creeks, water bodies, and a maximum of one street.
         (a)   As part of this type of development approval, the Board of
Supervisors may approve the following, if the applicant proves to the
satisfaction of the Board of Supervisors that such configuration would serve
the purposes of this section and be in the best interests of the township,
considering the unique circumstances of the tract:
         (b)   A reduction of the percentage of the preserved open space that
is in one lot; or
         (c)   The crossing of the preserved open space by two or more streets.
         (d)   An access way limited to emergency vehicles may also cross the
preserved open space.
      (8)   The Board of Supervisors may require that the majority of the
required preserved open space be placed:
         (a)   Adjacent to an existing or planned public or homeowner
association-owned recreation area,
         (b)   Adjacent to existing farmland,
         (c)   At the edge of a neighboring undeveloped lot, where the
preserved open space could be connected in the future to open space on that
neighboring lot, or
         (d)   Adjacent to an arterial street or expressway where the open
space will serve to buffer homes from the traffic.
   (D)   Conditions for approval. An COSDO shall only be approved if the
applicant proves to the satisfaction of the township that the following
additional conditions shall be met:
      (1)   That the open space development would clearly serve a valid public
purpose that would result in a development that would be superior to what would
result if the land would be developed as a conventional development. Such valid
public purposes include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   The permanent preservation of dense forests, steep slopes,
wetlands, creek valleys, mountain ridges, important wildlife corridors/
habitats, highly scenic areas or other sensitive natural features.
         (b)   The permanent preservation of a substantial area of land in
agricultural uses, in a tract of proper size and configuration that allows for
efficient agricultural use and that properly considers the issue of
compatibility between the agricultural uses and homes. In such case, new
dwellings shall be concentrated adjacent to existing dwellings and residential
zoning districts.
         (c)   The dedication of recreation land at a site deemed appropriate
by the Board of Supervisors and that involves land that is clearly suitable for
active and/or passive recreation.
         (d)   The provision of preserved open space in a location that will
allow homes to be buffered from highly-noxious, nuisance-generating uses, such
as a heavily traveled street or industrial uses. In such case, intensive
landscaping and/or planting for eventual re-forestation shall be provided.
      (2)   The applicant shall prove that the proposed COSDO has been designed
in full consideration of important natural features, including mature
woodlands, creek valleys, steep slopes and wetlands.
         (a)   At a minimum, the applicant shall prove that areas along
perennial creeks shall be preserved in their natural state, except for
landscaping, erosion control improvements, public recreation improvements and
needed utility, street and driveway crossings. Low-maintenance landscaping is
encouraged along creeks and other areas where maintenance would otherwise be
difficult.
         (b)   The natural features of the site shall be a major factor in
determining the siting of dwelling units and streets.
      (3)   The township may require the use of conservation easements within
an open space development to limit the disturbance of natural slopes over 15%,
wetlands, mature forests, creek valleys and other important natural features.
   (E)   Preserved open space.
      (1)   Preserved open space. The minimum amount of “preserved open space”
shall be provided, which shall meet the requirements of this section and the
definition in §
155.051 of “Open Space, Preserved.”
         (a)   The preserved open space requirements of this section shall be
in addition to the recreation land or fee-in-lieu of land requirements of the
Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance (SALDO), unless the applicant proves
to the satisfaction of the Board of Supervisors that the proposed preserved
open space would include suitably improved land that will meet the intent of
the recreation land requirements of the SALDO.
      (2)   Open space standards. Required preserved open spaces shall meet all
of the following requirements:
         (a)   Preserved open space shall be permanently deed-restricted or
protected by an appropriate conservation easement to prevent the construction
of buildings or the use for any non-agricultural commercial purposes. Forestry
shall meet township requirements and removal of healthy mature trees shall be
limited to selective cutting following a township-approved forest management
plan that follows best management practices. Land approved as required
preserved open space shall only be used for noncommercial passive recreation, a
nature preserve, crop farming and/or another township-approved agricultural
use.
         (b)   Improvements to open spaces. Where preserved open space is
proposed to be used for recreation and/or dedicated to the township, the
application shall include a detailed and legally binding (if approved)
description of what improvements the applicant will make to any land to make it
suitable for its intended purpose.
            1.   Examples of such improvements include preservation and
planting of trees, development of trails, stabilization of creek banks, removal
of invasive vegetation, and grading of land for recreation.
            2.   Type of maintenance. The final subdivision plan shall state
the intended type of maintenance of the open space, such as lawn areas that are
regularly mowed, or natural areas for passive recreation that are intended for
minimal maintenance.
            3.   All proposed preserved open space shall be cleared of
construction debris, materials from illegal dumping and any rocks that were not
naturally on the land, unless those rocks are incorporated into landscaping
improvements.
            4.   The applicant shall prove that all required preserved open
space would be suitable for its intended and township-approved purposes. The
township may require the provision of a trail easement and/or the construction
of a recreation trail through preserved open space. If a developer installs a
trail, it shall be completed prior to the final sale of any adjacent
residential lots.
            5.   Lots and preserved open spaces shall be located to promote
pedestrian and visual access to preserved open spaces whenever possible.
            6.    Sufficient access points from each preserved open space shall
be provided to streets for pedestrian access and maintenance access. The Board
of Supervisors may require that maintenance and/or pedestrian access points be
paved and be up to eight feet in width, meeting township standards for a bike
path. Maintenance access points shall be of a slope that is suitable for access
by vehicles and equipment.
      (3)   Open space ownership. The method(s) to be used to own, preserve and
maintain any preserved open space shall be acceptable to the township. The
township shall only approve a COSDO if the applicant proves there will be an
acceptable method to ensure permanent ownership, preservation and maintenance
of land that will not be included in individual home lots.
         (a)   The method of ownership and use of any required preserved open
space shall be determined prior to preliminary subdivision or land development
approval. The township should be given right of first refusal at the time of
such review to accept proposed open space as public open space. The township
shall only accept ownership of open space if the Board of Supervisors has
agreed in writing in advance to accept such ownership. If the preserved open
space will not be owned by the township, then the preserved open space shall be
permanently preserved by one or a combination of the following methods that are
found to be acceptable to the Board of Supervisors:
            1.   Dedication to the county as public open space, if the County
Commissioners agree in writing to such dedication.
            2.   Dedication to the School District if such Board of Education
agrees in writing to accept such dedication and to use and maintain the land
for school recreation, public recreation, environmental education and/or
related open space.
            3.   Dedication to a homeowners association as preserved open
space, with the homeowners legally bound to pay fees for the maintenance and
other expenses of owning such land, and with such homeowners association being
incorporated with covenants and bylaws providing for the filing of assessments
and/or municipal liens for the nonpayment of maintenance costs for preserved
open space that is not publicly-owned. Such responsibilities shall be specified
as part of each deed prior to sale of each lot or dwelling unit. The township
may delay a dedication of maintenance responsibilities by a developer to a
homeowners association until such association is incorporated and able to
maintain such land.
            4.   Dedication of the land to an established nature conservation
organization acceptable to the Board of Supervisors for maintenance as a nature
preserve or passive recreation area.
            5.   Dedication of a permanent conservation easement that results
in the land being used for a township-approved agricultural use, such as crop
farming, a tree farm, or a horse farm, and which may include one of the allowed
dwelling units on the lot.
            6.   Dedication to the State Game Commission, State Fish and Boat
Commission or similar public agency, if such agency agrees in writing in
advance to accept the dedication and to maintain the land for public
recreation.
            7.   Preservation of the preserved open space as part of one
privately-owned lot that is restricted against subdivision by a conservation
easement, if the applicant proves that none of the other alternatives are
feasible. In such case, the preserved open space shall be in addition to the
land area that would needed to meet the requirements for any dwelling on the
lot. The conservation easement shall control alteration of natural features on
the lot and shall limit nonresidential use/non-agricultural use of the lot.
Legal documents providing for ownership and/or maintenance of required
preserved open space shall be reviewed by the Township Solicitor and be subject
to approval by the Board of Supervisors prior to recording of the final plan. A
legally binding system shall be established to oversee and maintain land that
will not be publicly-owned. The applicant shall prove compliance with state law
governing homeowner associations. Proper notations shall be required on the
recorded plan. For example, if the preserved open space is intended to be owned
by a homeowner association as recreation land, a statement should be included
that the designated open space “shall not be further subdivided and shall not
be used for the construction of any non-recreation buildings.”
         (b)   Changes in open space uses. If the required preserved open space
is proposed to be used for purposes that were not authorized in the township
approval, then a revised approval shall be required for the changed use.
      (4)   Steep slopes. Within an open space development, the steep slope
provisions of §
155.112 shall still apply.
      (5)   Phasing. The development shall include a phasing system that shall
be approved by the Board of Supervisors. Such phases shall ensure that the
requirements of this section will be met after the completion of any one phase,
and that the development could properly function without the construction of
additional phases.
      (6)   Landscaping plan. An application for an open space development
involving over ten acres shall include a landscape planting and preservation
plan prepared by a registered landscape architect.
         (a)   Such plan shall show the locations, general species and initial
sizes of landscaping to be planted within the preserved open space and
throughout the tract.
         (b)   Such plan shall also show that existing substantial healthy
trees will be preserved to the maximum extent reasonable. The methods to ensure
preservation during construction shall be described.
         (c)   Landscaping shall also be used as appropriate to filter views of
denser housing from any adjacent housing that is less dense.
(Ord. 157, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 155.077 COORDINATED ZONING ALONG MUNICIPAL BORDERS DEVELOPMENT OPTION.
   (A)   Purposes. To coordinate zoning uses along municipal borders to:
      (1)   Reduce environmental impacts or potential nuisances including but
not limited to glare, odor, vibration and noise;
      (2)   Aid in reducing heavy truck traffic from the most vulnerable
residential, natural and agricultural uses;
      (3)   Coordinate land uses at municipal borders to yield the most
harmonious region-wide results between developed, cultivated and undeveloped
lands;
      (4)   Consider density, population projections and surrounding
developments when reviewing new land development proposals to allow for
seamless, rather than shock, transition between the different uses;
      (5)   Direct development to those areas that are more physically suited
for residential use;
      (6)   Accommodate future housing demand, housing supply and diversity;
      (7)   Maintain neighborhood character;
      (8)   Encourage a mix of housing of varying sizes and densities to avoid
overdependence and excessive uniformity of residential development within an
area;
      (9)   Maintain appropriate distances between conflicting land uses
(generally industrial or high-traffic commercial) versus housing and
agriculture;
      (10)   Provide for transitional forms of development between residential,
agricultural and industrial areas;
      (11)   Develop zoning and subdivision and land development regulations
that, whenever possible, ensure screening, buffering or other methods of
separating intensive uses;
      (12)   Encourage industrial freight traffic to the most appropriate and
efficient roadways and to avoid traffic impacts on local roads;
      (13)   Allow each property owner a reasonable use of their land related
directly to the features and location and accessibility of the land;
      (14)   Encourage maintaining the character of adjoining residential
neighboring zoning districts.
   (B)   Applicability. This section allows an applicant the option for
residential use on industrial tracts of land as designated on the Official
Zoning Map solely within the CZAMB-OD where the surrounding land uses are
primarily residential if the applicant proves compliance with all of the
requirements of this section to the satisfaction of the township.
      (1)   The Coordinated Zoning Along Municipal Borders Overlay District
("CZAMB-OD") is an overlay established to permit residential development design
within the areas designated on the Official Zoning Map. Coordinated Zoning
Along Municipal Borders Development shall be permitted by right solely within
the CZAMB-OD, in accordance with the minimum requirements set forth in this
Part. In the absence of a specific standard for the Coordinated Zoning Along
Municipal Borders development design appearing in this Part, the provisions of
the base zoning district shall apply.
      (2)   Uses. A CZAMB shall only include the following uses: single family
detached dwellings, recreation uses that the Township approves to be within
open space, and utilities necessary to serve the development. A manufactured
home park shall not qualify as a CZAMB. In addition, a twin dwelling unit with
the dwelling units separated by a vertical wall shall be allowed as long as
each unit is on a separate lot.
      (3)   A CZAMB shall be designed as a unified, coordinated residential
development, and shall be approved with a single development plan proposed by a
single development entity. After final subdivision approval and within an
approved development agreement(s) and phasing plan, portions of the development
may be transferred to different entities, provided that there is compliance
with the approved development plan and this section.
      (4)   Procedures, Applicants must first submit a layout plan for review
by the township for zoning compliance before the site layout has been finalized
and before completing detailed fully engineered preliminary subdivision plans.
This process will allow the township and the applicant to review the project
and mutually agree upon the general development layout meeting the purposes as
described in §
155.077(A) prior to detailed engineering. At this time the applicant and
township shall also review and determine how the applicant will address Section
1007 of the Upper Milford Township Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance
relating to recreation areas and fees. The applicant shall also consult the
U.S. Postal Service for requirements for mail delivery receptacles and
incorporate that into the layout plan. The Township would prefer centralized
mail delivery receptacles in new residential developments. Detailed development
plans containing stormwater, grading, utility, profile and erosion control
plans, and the like shall be submitted for review and approval as part of the
subdivision or land development approval process.
      (5)   Applicants shall dedicate, in fee, to a homeowners association such
property as may be necessary for all Stormwater Best Management Practices
required by the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Permit as part of the
Land Development/Subdivision approval process. The homeowners shall be legally
bound to pay fees to the homeowners association for the maintenance and other
expenses of owning such land, and with such homeowners association being
incorporated with covenants and by-laws, approved by the township prior to the
recording of the record plan, providing for the filing of assessments and/or
municipal liens for the non-payment of maintenance costs. The Stormwater Best
Management Practices shall not be built upon property required to meet the
minimum lot area of §
155.077(C)(3)(a)1. and (C)(3)(b)1.
   (C)   Uses and lot standards.
      (1)   All provisions of this zoning ordinance and the applicable zoning
district shall apply, except for provisions that are specifically modified by
this section. For example, lots in the CZAMB-OD shall comply with any
requirements of this chapter to delete certain natural features from lot area
of individual lots.
      (2)   Requirements for accessory uses and miscellaneous uses in §
155.068 under the RS-R (Rural Suburban Residential District) heading shall
apply if the CZAMB Development Option is used.
      (3)   The following dimensional requirements shall apply, provided that
central sewer and central water services are provided:
         (a)   Single Family Detached Dwellings.
            1.   The minimum lot area shall be 9,000 square feet. (See natural
feature regulations including §
155.112 for steep slopes. The minimum lot area is per dwelling unit.)
            2.   The minimum lot width shall be 75 feet measured at minimum
building setback line.
            3.   The minimum front yard setback shall be 25 feet.
            4.   The minimum side yard setback shall be 15 feet per side.
            5.   The minimum rear yard setback shall be 35 feet.
            6.   The maximum percent building coverage shall be 35%.
            7.   The maximum percent of impervious coverage shall be 45%.
         (b)   Twin dwelling units.
            1.   The minimum lot area shall be 6,500 square feet. (See natural
feature regulations including §
155.112 for steep slopes. The minimum lot area is per dwelling unit.)
            2.   The minimum lot width shall be 55 feet measured at minimum
building setback line.
            3.   The minimum front yard setback shall be 25 feet.
            4.   The minimum side yard setback shall be 15 feet on one side and
0 feet on the other side where the shared lot line of the lawfully attached
dwelling is.
            5.   The minimum rear yard setback shall be 35 feet.
            6.   The maximum percent building coverage shall be 40%.
            7.   The maximum percent of impervious coverage shall be 50%.
      (4)   A lot within the CZAMB-OD shall not include more than one principal
use and shall not include more than one principal building.
      (5)   A minimum 20 foot buffer yard including plant screening meeting the
requirements of §
155.092(D)(2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) shall be required along the rear and side
lot lines that abut another lot with a non-residential use when the CZAMB-OD
residential option is used.
      (6)   As a minimum standard the cartway width within a CZAMB-OD
residential use shall be 30 feet with curbs on both sides and on street parking
on one side.
      (7)   Fences and walls proposed in the required side yard setback area
shall be designed to not restrict access to the rear of the dwelling for future
utility or emergency purposes. This requirement shall also be included within
the covenants and bylaws of the homeowners association.
(Ord. 168, passed 8-18-2022)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.090 FRONTAGE ONTO IMPROVED STREETS; NUMBER OF USES OR BUILDINGS; MINIMUM
SIZE OF DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Frontage required onto improved street. Each proposed new lot, each
land development and each proposed principal building shall be on a lot which
directly abuts a public street, a street proposed to be dedicated to the
township by the subdivision plan which created or creates such lot, or a
private street which meets all of the requirements of the township subdivision
and land development ordinance. In the case of townhouses, manufactured/mobile
home park or apartments, each unit may have access onto a parking court which
then has access onto a public or private street meeting township standards.
   (B)   Number of principal uses and principal buildings per lot.
      (1)   A lot in a commercial or industrial district may include more than
one permitted principal use per lot and/or more than one permitted principal
building per lot, provided that all of the requirements are met for each use
and each building. If differing dimensional requirements apply for different
uses on the lot, then the most restrictive requirement shall apply.
         (a)   For example, if use one requires a one acre lot area and use two
on the same lot requires a two acre lot area, then the lot shall have a minimum
lot area of two acres.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit a site plan that demonstrates that
each structure would meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   The uses and buildings shall be in common ownership. However, a
condominium form of ownership of individual buildings, with a legally binding
property owners association, may be established if the applicant proves to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Officer, based upon review by the Township
Solicitor, that there will be appropriate legal mechanisms in place.
      (2)   A lot within a residential or R-A District shall not include more
than one principal use and shall not include more than one principal building
unless specifically permitted by this chapter.
         (a)   A manufactured/mobile home park, condominium residential
development or apartment development may include more than one principal
building per lot, provided all other requirements of this chapter are met.
         (b)   A lot may include a dwelling unit and one allowed nonresidential
use, such as a Christmas tree farm.
         (c)   A condominium form of ownership of individual dwelling units,
with a legally binding homeowners association, may be established if the
applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer, based upon review
by the Township Solicitor, that there will be appropriate legal mechanisms in
place and compliance with applicable state law. Each principal condominium
building shall be laid out so that each building would be able to meet the
dimensional requirements of this chapter as if the building was on its own fee
simple lot.
      (3)   An applicant may prove to the Zoning Hearing Board that a use
listed as a principal use in this chapter is actually functioning as an
accessory use.
      (4)   If differing dimensional requirements apply for different uses on
the lot, then the most restrictive provision shall apply.
   (C)   Minimum size of dwellings. Each dwelling unit shall include a minimum
of 500 square feet of enclosed habitable, indoor, heated floor area, which
shall be primarily above the ground level.
   (D)   Maximum occupancy. No recreational vehicle shall be occupied on a lot
for more than 30 days in a calendar year, except as may be approved within a
campground with suitable central water and sewage service. No mobile/
manufactured home shall be occupied on a lot as a dwelling unless it meets all
of the requirements for a dwelling.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.091 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The maximum structure height specified for each district shall not
apply to: antenna that meet the requirements of this chapter; water towers,
clock or bell towers; steeples and religious symbols attached to places of
worship; electrical transmission lines; elevator shafts; wind turbines
(provided they meet §
155.074); skylights; agricultural silos and related equipment; solar energy
collectors and mounting devices; chimneys; heating/ventilation/air conditional
equipment; industrial mechanical equipment areas that are not occupied by
humans; or other appurtenances usually required to be and customarily placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
   (B)   See also definition of “height” in §
155.051 and provisions in §
155.069.
   (C)   However, structures approved to exceed the height requirement shall
not restrict solar access to active solar collection panels on another lot.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.092 SPECIAL LOT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS, SIGHT DISTANCE AND BUFFER YARDS.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   No lot, structure or use shall be created or developed in such a
way that it would result in another lot, building or use not being able to meet
the requirements of this chapter. This includes, but is not limited to: setback
areas; non-impervious areas; and off-street parking areas.
      (2)   Emergency access: all uses and structures shall have adequate
provisions for access by emergency vehicles and fire ladders. Such access shall
be maintained in a passable condition by the owner of the lot, or where
applicable by the property owners association.
   (B)   Exceptions to minimum lot areas, lot widths and yards.
      (1)   Corner lots. For a corner lot, each yard that abuts a public street
shall be considered a front yard and meet the requirements for minimum depth of
a front yard. See definition of “lot, corner” in §
155.051.
      (2)   Projections into required yards.
         (a)   Cornices, footers, eaves, roof overhangs, sills or other similar
architectural features, exterior stairways, unenclosed fire escapes or other
required means of egress, rain leads, chimneys, “Bilco”-type doors for basement
access, window awnings, chaise for heating;
         (b)   Pipes or other similar structures that do not include space
usable by persons may extend or project into a required yard not more than
three feet, except as may be required within a drainage or utility easement;
         (c)   Steps, stoops, fire escapes, handicapped ramps, and landings
necessary to provide entrance to a building may be located within a required
setback area; and
         (d)   For decks and porches, see §
155.069.
      (3)   Lot widths around curves. Around the bulb of a cul-de-sac street or
on the outside of the curve of a street with a radius of less than 300 feet,
the minimum lot width at the minimum building setback line may be reduced to
40% of the width that would otherwise be required.
   (C)   Sight clearance at intersections.
      (1)   At the intersection of two streets, and at the intersection of a
commercial driveway and a street, a clear sight triangle shall be provided.
Within this triangle, no visual obstructions shall be allowed between the
height of two feet and ten feet above the ground level, except for utility
posts, mailboxes, single sign posts and the trunks of canopy trees. The
triangle shall be measured along the street centerlines, and a third diagonal
leg connecting the two legs to form a triangle. Two legs that are each 150 feet
long shall extend from the intersection of street centerlines if either street
is an arterial street. Two legs that are each 100 feet long shall extend from
the intersection of the street centerlines if either street is a collector
street and no arterial streets are involved. The two legs shall be 75 feet from
the intersection of the street centerlines if both streets are local streets.
         (a)   However, in place of the above sight triangle, where a local
street intersects an arterial or collector street with a stop sign only at the
local street, the leg of the triangle along the arterial or collector street
shall be increased to 300 feet and the leg along the local street shall be
decreased to 15 feet beyond the travel lane of the arterial or collector
street.
         (b)   The clear sight triangle shall be kept free of such obstructions
in perpetuity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1096.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1098.jpg]
 
      (2)   Clear sight triangle at driveway intersections.
         (a)   A triangular clear sight triangle as described in division (C)
(1) above shall be provided where a driveway or accessway enters onto a street.
         (b)   Such triangle shall be 30 feet long along the centerline of the
street and along the centerline of the accessway or driveway, with a third
diagonal longer leg connecting the two legs together.
   (D)   Buffer yards. Buffer yards including plant screening complying with
the following standards shall be required under the following situations,
unless a more restrictive provision is established by another section of this
chapter.
      (1)   A minimum 20 foot wide buffer yard with plant screening shall be
required along the rear and side lot lines of any lot used principally for
principal nonresidential purposes that is contiguous to a lot line of a
residentially zoned lot occupied by an existing principal dwelling.
         (a)   If a principal business use will include areas used for
manufacturing or will have a loading dock that will be routinely serviced by
two or more tractor-trailer trucks or refrigerated trucks, then the minimum
buffer yard width along such manufacturing area and/or loading dock shall be
increased to 40 feet, and the minimum initial height of plantings shall be
increased to six feet.
         (b)   If a dwelling will be on the same lot as a principal business
use, then a buffer yard shall not be required by this section.
         (c)   A 20-foot minimum buffer yard with landscaped screening shall be
required where a subdivision or land development of new dwellings will have
rear yards abutting a public street.
         (d)   A buffer yard is also required to be provided by the following
if they are abutting and visible from a public street:
            1.   Along lot lines and street rights-of-way of any newly
developed or expanded outdoor industrial storage or loading area; or
            2.   Along lot lines and street rights-of-way of any newly
developed or expanded area routinely used for the overnight parking of two or
more tractor-trailer trucks or trailers of tractor-trailers.
      (2)   A required yard may overlap a required buffer yard, provided the
requirement for each is met. The buffer yard shall be measured from the
district boundary line, street right-of-way line or lot line, whichever is
applicable. Required plantings shall not be placed within the right-of-way,
except that the township may allow deciduous canopy trees.
      (3)   The buffer yard shall be a landscaped area free of structures,
dumpsters, commercial or industrial storage or display, signs, manufacturing or
processing activity, materials, loading and unloading areas or vehicle parking
or display.
      (4)   Fence: the township may require the installation of a mostly solid
decorative fence in addition to the plantings. Any wall or fence in a buffer
yard shall be placed on the inside (nonresidential side) of any required plant
screening. If a fence in a buffer yard has one side that is more finished or
smoother than the other side, the more finished or smoother side shall face the
outside of the buffer yard.
      (5)   Each planting screen shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Plant materials needed to form the visual screen shall have a
minimum height when planted of four feet. In addition, an average of one
deciduous shade tree, with a minimum trunk diameter of two inches measured six
inches above the finished ground level, shall be placed for each 50 feet of
length of the buffer yard. The shade trees may be clustered or spaced unevenly.
         (b)   Plants needed to form the visual screen shall be of such
species, spacing and size as can reasonably be expected to produce within two
years a mostly solid year-round visual screen at least six feet in height.
         (c)   The plant screen shall be placed so that at maturity the plants
will not obstruct a street or sidewalk.
         (d)   The plant visual screen shall extend the full length of the lot
line, except for:
            1.   Township-approved points of approximately perpendicular
vehicle or pedestrian ingress and egress to the lot;
            2.   Locations necessary to comply with safe sight distance
requirements where the plantings cannot feasibly be moved further back; and
            3.   Locations needed to meet other specific state, township and
utility requirements, such as stormwater swales.
         (e)   American Arborvitae and similar weak-stem plants shall not be
used to meet the buffer yard requirements. A monotonous straight row of the
same species is discouraged. A more naturalistic form of planting is encouraged
with a mix of species. If more than 20 evergreen plants are proposed, no more
than 50% shall be of one species.
         (f)   Evergreen trees should be planted at diagonal off-sets so that
there is room for future growth of the trees.
         (g)   The plant screening shall primarily use evergreen trees.
         (h)   The Zoning Officer may also modify the buffer yard requirements
if necessary for fire safety reasons. The Zoning Hearing Board may by special
exception reduce the width of the buffer yard if the required width is not
feasible.
      (6)   Buffer yard plans: prior to the issuance of a permit under this
chapter where a buffer yard would be required, and on any required subdivision
or land development plan, the applicant shall submit plans showing:
         (a)   The location and arrangement of each buffer yard;
         (b)   The placement, general selection of species and initial size of
all plant materials; and
         (c)   The placement, size, materials and type of all fences to be
placed in such buffer yard.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.093 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any part of a commercial, industrial, institutional or apartment
lot which is not used for structures, loading areas, parking spaces and aisles,
sidewalks and designated storage areas shall be provided with an all-season,
well-maintained vegetative groundcover, and shall be landscaped with trees and
shrubs.
      (2)   Landscaped areas shall be kept free of debris, rubbish and noxious
weeds.
   (B)   Buffer yard requirements. See also the buffer yard provisions in §
155.092.
   (C)   Street trees. As part of the creation of a new nonresidential lot or
the construction of a new principal nonresidential building, or development of
parking area for six or more parking spaces, deciduous shade street trees shall
be planted between such lot lines, building and/or parking area and any
adjacent public street(s). This requirement shall not apply along street
segments where existing healthy trees will be preserved and protected during
construction that will serve the same purpose.
      (1)   Number. A minimum average of one such tree shall be planted for
each 50 feet of length of street right-of-way around the lot.
      (2)   Location. Such trees may be placed immediately outside of the
street right-of-way, or an alternative location acceptable to the township.
      (3)   Sidewalks and utilities. Such street trees shall be planted in a
manner approved by the township to avoid conflicts with sidewalks and
utilities.
      (4)   Buffer. Where shade trees may be required under the buffer yard
provisions, the same tree may be used to count towards both requirements.
      (5)   Street trees. The street trees shall meet the requirements of
division (D) below.
      (6)   Agricultural lot. This requirement for street trees shall not apply
for an agricultural lot.
   (D)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   A minimum of one deciduous tree shall be required for every 15 new
off-street parking spaces.
      (2)   If a lot will include 30 or more new parking spaces, landscaped
islands shall be provided within auto parking areas. Otherwise, the trees may
be planted around the parking area.
      (3)   Deciduous trees required by this section shall meet the following
standards:
         (a)   Type of trees permitted.
            1.   Required trees shall be chosen from the following list of
approved street trees, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the
township that another type of tree would shade paved areas, be resistant to
disease, road salt and air pollution and be attractive.
Types of Deciduous Trees Permitted to Meet Chapter Requirements
Types of Deciduous Trees Permitted to Meet Chapter Requirements
Acer rubrum - Red Maple
Acer saccharum - Sugar Maple
Carpinus betulus - European Hornbeam
Celtis occidentalis - Common Hackberry
Fagus sylvatica - European Beech
Fraxinus americana - White Ash
Fraxinus pennsylvania - Green Ash
Ginko biloba fastigiata - Maiden Hair Tree (male only; female has noxious odor)
Gleditsia triacanthos - Thornless Locust
Liriodendron tulipifera - Tulip Poplar
Ostrya virginiana - Hop Hornbeam
Quercus - All species of oaks
Sophora japonica - Scholar Tree/Pagoda Tree
Tilia americana - American Linden
Tilia cordata - Little Leaf Linden
Tilia euchlora - Crimean Linden
Tilia petiolaris - Silver Linden
Ulmus hybrids - Homestead or Sapporo Autumn Gold
Ulmus parviflora - Chinese or Lacebark Elm, not including Siberian Elm
Zelkova serrata - Zelkova
 
            2.   Note: this chapter only regulates the species of trees that
are used to meet requirements of the township. The species of trees that are
not required by township ordinances are not regulated.
         (b)   Quality of trees. Required trees shall be of symmetrical growth
and free of insect pests and disease.
         (c)   Minimum size. The trunk diameter (measured at a height of six
inches above the finished grade level) shall be a minimum of two inches or
greater.
         (d)   Planting and maintenance. Required trees shall be:
            1.   Planted in conformance with good landscaping practices, with
adequate unpaved surface around each for water and air; and
            2.   Properly protected by curbs, curb stops, distance or other
devices from damage
from vehicles.
   (E)   Green area around trees. A minimum vegetative area shall be provided
that includes at least a three foot minimum radius around all sides of the
trunk of each required deciduous tree that is within or adjacent to a parking
lot. Where a tree is required to be planted abutting a street, a minimum
vegetative area shall be provided that is not less than three feet wide and
three feet long surrounding the tree. In each case, a minimum land area of 12
square feet of vegetative area shall be provided around each required tree.
   (F)   Review and approval. Where landscaping is required by this chapter,
the applicant shall submit a landscaping plan, in addition to a site plan,
showing proposed initial sizes, locations and species of plantings.
   (G)   Landscape maintenance. All shade tree, buffer yard and other
landscaping required by this chapter shall be perpetually maintained by the
property owner. Any landscaping needed to meet a requirement that dies, is
removed, or is severely damaged shall be replaced by the current property
owner, on a one-to-one basis, as soon as is practical considering growing
seasons, within a maximum of 150 days.
   (H)   Stormwater basin landscaping. The following requirements shall apply
to landscaping within and around stormwater management basins covering more
than 20,000 square feet in land area.
      (1)   All areas of stormwater management basins, including basin floors,
side slopes, berms, impoundment structures or other earth structures, shall be
planted with suitable vegetation, such as meadow plantings or grasses
specifically suited for stormwater basins.
      (2)   Trees and shrubs shall be planted around stormwater basins that
cover more than 5,000 square feet of land and that are not designed to resemble
natural ponds. However, trees and shrubs shall not be planted in locations that
would interfere with the function of the basin. A minimum average of two trees
and ten shrubs shall be required to be planted around the basin for every 100
linear feet of basin perimeter. Trees shall have an initial trunk diameter of
two inches, measured six inches above the ground. Shrubs shall have an initial
height of four feet.
      (3)   Natural ground cover plant species shall be planted in the floors
and slopes of the basin. These ground covers may include wildflowers, meadows
or non-aggressive grasses. Species shall be chosen that are suitable for the
expected wetness of various portions of the basin. The plantings shall provide
a continuous cover over all earth areas of the basin. The plantings shall not
interfere with the proper functioning of the basin, in the determination of the
Township Engineer.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.094 FUTURE RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS FOR ROADS.
   (A)   Purposes. Minimum future right-of-way widths are established for roads
where the existing right-of-way is less than that indicated in division (C)
below for the particular class of road.
   (B)   Measurement.
      (1)   The future right-of-way shall be measured from the centerline of
the existing road.
      (2)   All front yards and other appropriate yards shall be measured from
the future right-of-way line.
      (3)   See the classification of each road/street in
Appendix A.
   (C)   Minimum widths. Minimum future right-of-way are as follows:
 
Street Classification Minimum Future Right-Of-Way
Arterial highway      80 ft.
Collector street      60 ft.
Local street          50 ft.
Private street        50 ft.
Greater width may be required in accordance with use intended, such as if
right-turn and left-turn lanes are needed
 
   (D)   Dedication.
      (1)   Land within a future right-of-way shall be kept free of buildings,
parking, storage and other uses that could obstruct the use of the right-of-way
for future road improvements, utilities, pedestrian/bicycle improvements and/or
stormwater improvements. PennDOT may require a dedication of part or all of the
future right-of-way width along a state road.
      (2)   Land within a future right-of-way may be requested by the township
to be dedicated to the township or to be reserved for future dedication when a
need may arise.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.095 FRONTAGE DEVELOPMENT ALONG ARTERIAL AND COLLECTOR STREETS.
   In order to encourage the sound development of frontage along arterial and
collector streets (see
Appendix A) and to minimize traffic congestion and hazard, the following
special provisions shall apply.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading. All areas for off-street parking, off-
street loading and unloading, and the storage or movement of motor vehicles
shall be physically separated from the highway or street by a raised curb,
planting strip, wall or other suitable barrier against accessways or access
roads which supply entrance to and egress from such parking, loading or storage
area. All parking areas or lots shall be designed to prohibit vehicles from
backing out on the street, and the capacity of each lot shall provide adequate
storage area and distribution facilities upon the lot to prevent back-up of
vehicles on a public street while awaiting entry to the lot.
   (B)   Access. Each use with less than 100 feet of frontage on an arterial or
collector street shall have not more than one accessway to each such street,
and no business or other use with 100 feet or more of frontage on an arterial
or collector street shall have more than two accessways to any one street for
each 300 feet of frontage. Where practicable, access to parking areas shall be
provided by a common service driveway in order to avoid direct access to an
arterial or collector street.
   (C)   Planned developments. In the case of a planned development, shopping
center, office complex, group of multiple family dwellings, or similar grouping
of principal buildings on a lot, and in any other case where practicable:
      (1)   Each principal building shall front upon a marginal access street,
service road, common parking lot or similar area and not directly upon a public
street;
      (2)   Each point of vehicular access to and from a public street shall be
located at least 200 feet from the intersection of any public street right-of-
way lines, provided that such point of vehicular access which converts a “T”
intersection into an intersection of two streets which cross one another shall
be permitted;
      (3)   Provisions shall be made for safe and efficient ingress and egress
to and from public streets and highways serving the unified development,
without undue congestion to, or interference with normal traffic flow within
the township;
      (4)   All streets and accessways shall conform to the specifications
determined by the Township Engineer and the requirements of the township
subdivision and land development ordinance. Provisions shall be made for
adequate signalization, turn, standby and deceleration lanes, and similar
facilities where deemed necessary by the Township Engineer; and
      (5)   All driveways, aisles, maneuvering spaces, vehicular service areas
or spaces between or about buildings, other than those related to a dwelling
shall be adequately illuminated during night hours of use at no cost to the
township.
   (D)   Reverse frontage encouraged. Direct vehicular access from individual
lots abutting arterial or collector streets shall be strongly discouraged and
reverse frontage shall be encouraged.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.096 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Proof and registration of nonconformities. It shall be the
responsibility of, with the burden of proof upon, a party asserting a
nonconformity to provide the evidence that it is lawful. A property owner may
request a written statement of nonconformity from the Zoning Officer after
providing sufficient evidence.
   (B)   Continuation of nonconformities.
      (1)   A lawful nonconforming use, structure or lot as defined by this
chapter may be continued and may be sold and continued by new owners.
      (2)   Any expansion of, construction upon or change in use of a
nonconformity shall only occur in conformance with this section.
      (3)   If an existing use was not lawfully established, it shall not have
any right to continue as a nonconforming use.
   (C)   Expansion of or construction upon nonconformities. The following shall
apply, unless the structure is approved under division (D) below.
      (1)   Nonconforming structure.
         (a)   The Zoning Officer shall permit a nonconforming structure to be
reconstructed or expanded provided:
            1.   Such action will not increase the severity or amount of the
nonconformity (such as the area of the building extending into the required
yard) or create any new nonconformity; or
            2.   Any expanded area will comply with the applicable setbacks in
that District and other requirements of this chapter, except as may be allowed
under division (C)(1)(c) below.
         (b)   In the case of a nonconforming structure which is used by a
nonconforming use, any expansion shall also meet the requirements of this
section regarding nonconforming uses.
         (c)   As a special exception, the Zoning Hearing Board may approve a
reduction of up to 50% in a side or rear setback for an existing dwelling if
the applicant proves such setback is necessary to allow a customary addition to
such dwelling or a replacement of an existing undersized dwelling with a new
dwelling. This division (C)(1)(c) shall not allow a reduction in setback to
increase the number of dwelling units on the lot.
      (2)   Nonconforming lots.
         (a)   Permitted construction on a nonconforming lot. A single
permitted by right principal use and its customary accessory uses may be
constructed, reconstructed or expanded on a nonconforming lot provided all of
the following additional requirements are met:
            1.   The lot must be a lawful nonconforming lot of record;
            2.   Minimum setback requirements shall be met;
            3.   State and federal wetland regulations shall be met; and
            4.   If a septic or well is used, the requirements for such shall
be met.
         (b)   Lot width. The fact that an existing lawful lot of record does
not meet the minimum lot width requirements of this chapter shall not by itself
cause such lot to be considered to be a nonconforming lot.
      (3)   Expansion of a nonconforming nonresidential use. A nonconforming
use or a building used by a nonconforming use shall not be expanded, except in
accordance with the following provisions.
         (a)   An expansion of more than 5% in total building floor area shall
require special exception approval from the Zoning Hearing Board under §§
155.020 through
155.035.
         (b)   Such reconstruction or expansion shall be only upon the same lot
that the nonconforming use was located upon at the time the use became
nonconforming.
         (c)   1.   The total building floor area used by a nonconforming use
or the total land area covered by the nonconforming use, whichever is more
restrictive, shall not be increased by greater than 50% beyond what existed in
the nonconforming use at the time the use first became nonconforming.
            2.   The above maximum increase shall be measured in aggregate over
the entire life of the nonconformity. All expansions of the nonconforming use
and/or building(s) that occurred since the use originally became nonconforming
shall count towards the above maximum increase.
         (d)   Any expansion of a nonconforming use shall meet the required
setbacks and other requirements of this chapter, unless the Zoning Hearing
Board grants a variance.
      (4)   Expansion of a nonconforming residential use. An existing
nonconforming residential use may be expanded as a permitted by right use
provided that:
         (a)   The number of dwelling units or rooming house units are not
increased;
         (b)   The expansion meets all applicable setbacks;
         (c)   No new types of nonconformities are created; and
         (d)   A nonconformity is not made more severe.
      (5)   Nonconforming sign. The provisions of this chapter shall not
provide a right to expand or extend a nonconforming sign. Instead, any
expansions or extensions of a nonconforming sign shall comply with this
chapter.
   (D)   Damaged or destroyed nonconformities.
      (1)   A nonconforming structure or nonconforming use that has been
destroyed or damaged may be rebuilt in a nonconforming fashion only if:
         (a)   The application for a building permit is submitted within 18
months after the date of damage or destruction;
         (b)   Work begins in earnest within 12 months afterward the building
permit is issued and continues; and
         (c)   No nonconformity may be newly created or increased by any
reconstruction.
      (2)   The property shall be properly secured during such time in such a
way to keep out trespassers and to avoid harm to neighboring properties.
   (E)   Abandonment of a nonconformity.
      (1)   If a nonconforming use of a building or land is discontinued,
razed, removed or abandoned for 12 or more months, subsequent use of such
building or land shall conform with the regulations of the district in which it
is located, except as provided for in the damaged or destroyed nonconformities
provisions of this section in division (D) above.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible to provide clear and convincing
evidence that the nonconformity was not abandoned.
      (3)   An existing lawful separate dwelling unit may be unrented for any
period of time without being considered “abandoned” under this chapter.
   (F)   Changes from one nonconforming use to another.
      (1)   Once changed to a conforming use, a structure or land shall not
revert to a nonconforming use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a different nonconforming use
only if approved as a special exception by the Zoning Hearing Board. However,
special exception approval is not needed for a simple change within an existing
building from one lawful nonconforming retail store use to another retail store
use or from one lawful nonconforming personal service use to another personal
service use provided that the new use complies with any Zoning Hearing Board
conditions that applied to the previous use and is not more objectionable in
external effects than the previous use.
      (3)   Where special exception approval is required for a change of a
nonconforming use, the Board shall determine whether the applicant has provided
sufficient proof to show that the proposed new use will be equal or less
objectionable in external effects than the pre-existing nonconforming use with
regard to:
         (a)   Traffic safety and generation (especially truck traffic);
         (b)   Noise, dust, fumes, vapors, gases, odor, glare, vibration, fire,
hazardous substances and explosive hazards;
         (c)   Amount and character of outdoor storage;
         (d)   Hours of operation if the use would be close to dwellings; and
         (e)   Compatibility with the character of the surrounding area.
      (4)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to a nonconforming adult
use.
   (G)   District changes. Any uses, structures or lots that become
nonconforming because of a zoning district change shall be regulated under this
section on nonconformities.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.097 SITE DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   The following advisory guidelines are intended to assist the applicant in
the preparation of site and building plans and to assist the township in
reviews.
   (A)   Relation of proposed buildings to the surrounding environment. Relate
proposed structure(s) harmoniously to the terrain. Seek compatibility and
logical transitions between existing and proposed uses, create focal points
with respect to avenues of approach, and relate open space between all existing
and proposed buildings.
   (B)   Drive, parking and circulation. For vehicular and pedestrian
circulation (including walkways, interior drives, and parking) give special
attention to the location and number of access points to public streets, width
of interior drives and access points, general interior circulation, stacking
capacity at drive-through facilities, separation of main pedestrian crossings
from the more heavily traveled vehicular routes.
   (C)   Surface water drainage. Comply with the township stormwater management
regulations to minimize flooding on other properties. Consider methods to allow
stormwater to infiltrate into the ground, as opposed to running off the ground.
Separate possible contaminates from stormwater runoff routes. Make sure that
vehicle routes can properly function during heavy rains.
   (D)   Utility service. Place cable, electric service and telephone lines
underground, wherever possible. Locate above-ground utility structures to
minimize their visibility and use earth-tone colors and landscaping around them
when feasible.
   (E)   Signs. Avoid excessively bright or garish signage and avoid use of day
glow colors. Minimize the height of signs and add landscaping around the base
of larger signs.
   (F)   Special features. Provide needed setbacks, screen plantings and other
screening methods for exposed storage areas, exposed machinery installations,
service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings and structures, and
similar accessory areas and structures to help make them compatible with the
existing or contemplated site design and with neighboring properties.
   (G)   Preservation of landscape. Preserve the landscape in its natural state
by minimizing tree and soil removal. Ensure the grade changes are compatible
with the general appearance of the neighboring developed areas. Strive to
protect the serenity of the surroundings and restore the trees and soil to
their condition before development.
   (H)   Solar energy use. Consider the desirability and feasibility of active
and passive solar energy use. Orient proposed buildings and provide structures
to provide for solar energy use and to preserve solar access of adjoining
properties.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.098 DUMPSTER SCREENING AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Site plans submitted to the township shall show the proposed location
of any garbage dumpsters. The township may require that such proposed location
be modified to provide compatibility with adjacent uses.
   (B)   Garbage dumpsters shall be surrounded on at least three of four sides
by a solid fencing, wall or landscaping if the dumpster would be visible from a
street or a residential lot. This section is not intended to regulate temporary
dumpsters for construction or renovation debris.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.099 TWO DWELLINGS ON A LOT.
   The township may approve two single-family detached dwellings if one of the
following sets of conditions are met.
   (A)   Two single-family detached dwellings may be allowed on the lot if both
buildings existed prior to the adoption of this chapter, and if one dwelling
unit was converted from an agricultural building, spring house or a similar
historic building.
   (B)   Two single-family detached dwellings may be allowed on a lot if the
applicant proves to the satisfaction of the township that the land could be
subdivided in the future in a manner that would result in two conforming lots,
each with their own dwelling unit, and if each dwelling unit has its own well,
unless each dwelling unit is served by a public water system, and its own on-
lot septic system, unless each dwelling unit is served by a public sewage
system.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 170, passed - -2023)
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS
§ 155.110 ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All uses shall be developed in a manner consistent with the
preservation of the quality of the existing environment and of any natural
amenities present on the site.
   (B)   All uses shall provide for the preservation and the minimum
destruction of natural drainage areas, minimum grading and destruction of the
ground surface, the preservation of substantial stands of trees and forested
areas, and the preservation of attractive views and any other natural features
existing on the site.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.111 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No land or structure in any zoning district shall be used or occupied
in any manner that creates any:
      (1)   Dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable condition;
      (2)   Fire, explosive other hazards;
      (3)   Heat, electromagnetic or other radiation;
      (4)   Noise or vibration;
      (5)   Dust nuisance; or
      (6)   Any other condition in such manner or in such amount as to
adversely affect the reasonable use or value of the surrounding area or
adjoining premises or be dangerous to public health or safety.
   (B)   See also the township open burning ordinance, as codified in §§
92.35 through
92.43 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.112 STEEP SLOPES.
   (A)   Steep slopes are those slopes in excess of 15% (15 feet vertical
distance over 100 feet horizontal distance).
      (1)   When a lot contains steep slopes, the lot shall meet one of the
following conditions:
         (a)   The lot must contain a minimum of contiguous area of slopes less
than 15% equal to or greater than the minimum required lot area for the zoning
district in which the lot is located. (Note: no non-contiguous areas and slopes
less than 15% may be totaled to achieve the required minimum area. Furthermore,
no areas of over 15% slope may be included in the minimum area); or
         (b)   The lot area must be at least three acres (not including
floodplains, wetlands or slopes in excess of 25%) and have a width of at least
225 feet.
      (2)   When a lot complies with division (A)(1)(a) above, all development
(excluding septic systems) shall occur in that area not in excess of 15%. When
development is to occur in a steep slope area (i.e., 15% to 25%) the
requirements of division (A)(3) below and division (A)(1)(b) above shall be
met.
      (3)   (a)   When a building site’s natural grade exceeds 15% over a
minimum building site area of 80 feet by 70 feet and/or when a steep slope over
15% will be disturbed, a site plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for review.
         (b)   The site plan shall:
            1.   Include lot lines, a scale bar and north arrow, existing and
proposed contours at two-foot intervals for all slopes to 25% and five-foot
intervals for slopes over 25%, proposed site improvements, alterations,
certification of ownership and acknowledgment of plan signed by owner or
developer; and
            2.   Address sedimentation and erosion control measures and site
drainage.
         (c)   The Zoning Officer may require the drawings to be prepared by a
registered land surveyor, registered landscape architect or professional or
engineer.
   (B)   No building shall be constructed or placed and no re-grading shall
occur on areas with a slope of 25% or greater. If trees or other vegetation are
removed from areas of 25% or greater slope, they shall be replaced with new
trees and vegetation that serve the same purposes. This section shall not apply
to areas that were re-graded prior to the enactment of this chapter and clearly
did not have a naturally-occurring steep slope.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 161, passed 4-18-2019)
§ 155.113 AREAS WITH HYDRIC SOILS AND HIGH WATER TABLE SOILS.
   (A)   Purposes. This section is intended to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare and to minimize these losses by establishing
provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect the long-term integrity of the structures constructed in
the township;
      (2)   Protect the water resources of the township;
      (3)   Prevent development or use of land in a manner tending to affect
adversely the quality or quantity of water recharged to aquifers;
      (4)   Minimize adverse effects on the natural balance of soils,
vegetation, natural drainage and subsurface features which contribute to
beneficial filtering of contaminants and recharge of waters to aquifers;
      (5)   Regulate or prevent the erection of structures or location of uses
in areas which may have a substantial adverse effect on water quality by virtue
of the creation, handling or disposal of potentially harmful substances;
      (6)   Carry out § 603(b) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. § 10603(b), which allows zoning ordinances to
permit, prohibit, regulate, restrict and determine uses of land, watercourses
and other bodies of water, and protection and preservation of natural
resources;
      (7)   Carry out § 603(d) of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10603(d), which allows zoning provisions
which regulate the siting, density and design of residential, commercial,
industrial and other developments in order to assure the availability of
reliable, safe and adequate water supplies to support the intended land uses
within the capacity of available water resources;
      (8)   Recognize that the township is a unique hydrological entity in that
a significant portion of township residents rely on the ground water supply as
their sole source of potable water;
      (9)   Recognize that aquifers used for the water supply are mainly ground
water or semi-confined aquifers which are recharged or replenished primarily
from rainfall;
      (10)   Recognize that continued development in recharge areas which
contain favorable soil, vegetative and hydrogeologic conditions which serve to
replenish water table aquifers will decrease the recharge capacity because
fewer natural areas will be available to absorb rainfall and will increase the
volume and speed of surface water runoff, which in turn will increase the
amount of water lost to streams and to evapo-transpiration;
      (11)   Recognize that the natural vegetation and soil associations within
the high water table areas provide superior filtration of waters recharging the
water table aquifers, therefore reducing the amounts of natural and human-made
contaminants reaching the ground water supply; and
      (12)   Recognize that while certain types of development will have no
adverse effects on the beneficial aspects of high water table areas, or may
actually enhance positive qualities, uncontrolled development will cause
substantial destruction of the potential abilities of this area to sustain
adequate and quality water supplies for the current and future residents of the
township.
   (B)   Any proposed use which may directly (by means of effluent discharge
into the ground) or indirectly (through the leaching of stored materials)
result in the pollution of the ground water shall be prohibited from developing
in any area which has a year round or seasonal high water table at a depth of
less than 20 inches below the surface.
   (C)   (1)   This division (C) shall only apply to a lot that is submitted
for its initial subdivision or land development approval after the effective
date of this section. For the purpose of calculating any minimum lot area, any
lot developed in a site that contains soils having a water table less than 20
inches below the surface, as indicated by seasonal or actual water level
observation shall have a minimum contiguous lot area of at least that required
by the district, exclusive of that area located within the high water table
area. No occupied structures (for example, a home basement, garage, shed, pool)
shall be placed within the delineated high water table area of 20 inches or
less.
      (2)   The lowest enclosed floor of a new occupied structure, including
any basement, shall be built a minimum of six inches above the seasonal high
water table elevation. Any occupied structure shall be constructed to limit the
need for ground water pumping.
   (D)   At time of building, high water table testing within the building
envelope shall be required to be submitted with the building permit
application. Water table elevation must be determined in accordance with the
herein contained criteria in order to establish the lowest floor’s elevation.
   (E)   Investigations.
      (1)   The determination of a water table evaluation shall be made by a
qualified soil scientist who is recognized as either:
         (a)   An ARCPACS certified professional soil scientist (CPSS) or
certified professional soil classifier (CPSC); or
         (b)   A professional member of the Pennsylvania Association of
Professional Soil Scientists (PAPSS).
      (2)   The township may require that an on-site investigation or
evaluation be conducted for the purpose of determining the presence of,
location and extent of a high water table if any of the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   There is evidence of surface water that persists for more than a
two-week period;
         (b)   “Waters of the United States” or “waters of the commonwealth”
are present on the property; or
         (c)   There are other visual indicators of the presence of a high
water table.
      (3)   The methodology of testing shall be in general conformance with the
United States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service
publication titled Field Indicators of Hydric Soils in the United States,
Version 6.0, 2006, or as may be subsequently revised. Test excavations shall be
observed by a representative from the township, with limiting zone elevations
measured by field survey tied to a site benchmark.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.114 DEVELOPMENT ALONG STREAMS AND WETLANDS.
   (A)   Permits or approvals may be required for activity within or adjacent
to a waterway from the State Department of Environmental Protection, the Army
Corps of Engineers, the Federal Emergency Management Agency or other entities.
   (B)   Any street, driveway or utility crossing of a stream shall be
approximately perpendicular to the stream, to the maximum extent feasible. As
part of any street, driveway or utility construction within or adjacent to a
stream, the applicant shall complete remedial measures to mitigate the impact
upon the stream, including planting of trees and thick lower-level vegetation
and use of best management practices.
   (C)   All lots adjacent to streams and wetlands shall contain a contiguous
lot area that meets the minimum lot area required for that use and district
exclusive of the stream and/or wetland area. If no alteration is proposed of
any areas within 300 feet of hydric soil areas and other suspected wetland
areas, then a detailed wetland delineation and a deletion of wetlands from
minimum lot area is not required by this zoning chapter.
   (D)   (1)   All areas within 50 feet from the top of the primary bank of a
stream, natural lake or pond, or wetland shall not be occupied by any of the
following: a building, vehicle parking or business outdoor storage.
      (2)   Setback shall not apply to wetlands that the applicant proves to
the satisfaction of the Township Engineer were clearly human-made, such as
within detention basins or human-made drainage ditches constructed as part of
an approved subdivision or land development plan.
   (E)   Vegetation.
      (1)   Where existing trees and/or shrubs are removed from lands that are
less than 50 feet from the top of the primary bank of a stream or natural lake
or pond, as part of, or in preparation to, a subdivision, land development or
permitted construction of a new building, then new trees and shrubs shall be
planted and maintained.
      (2)   The new trees and shrubs shall have the same or better impact upon
controlling erosion and filtering pollutants from runoff as the trees and/or
shrubs that were removed.
      (3)   Mature healthy trees shall only be removed within this 50-foot wide
area as part of a development where there is no feasible alternative, such as
to allow a utility crossing.
      (4)   Publications of the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and
Natural Resources (including Stream ReLeaf) and/or other governmental or non-
profit organizations shall be used as standards for the planting of the buffer.
These publications include recommended species. During the time period of any
maintenance agreement with the developer, the developer shall replace any such
trees or plants that do not survive within 100 days afterwards. If such trees
and plants do not survive beyond the maintenance agreement time period, they
shall be replaced within 100 days afterwards by the current owner of the
property.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.115 ALLUVIAL SOILS AREAS.
   (A)   Determination of alluvial soils area.
      (1)   Based upon mapping by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the
following soil types, or their successor types, shall be considered to be
alluvial soils that are subject to the flooding:
         (a)   Atkins silt loam;
         (b)   Atkins silt loam, local alluvium;
         (c)   Huntington silt loam;
         (d)   Melvin silt loam;
         (e)   Philo silt loam; and
         (f)   River wash
      (2)   The Zoning Officer shall require that a detailed on-site survey be
made (by a qualified engineer, soil scientist or qualified sanitarian approved
by the Board of Supervisors in accordance with accepted on-site survey
techniques) to determine the exact extent and nature of areas susceptible to
potential problems of flooding, wetness or pollution before issuing a zoning
permit for any proposed use within an alluvial soils area if it is along a
waterway segment that was not studied as part of the federal floodplain
mapping.
   (B)   Use regulations. Within any alluvial soils that is determined to be
within the 100-year floodplain, the regulations of the 100-year floodplain as
provided in the township floodplain ordinance shall apply. See Ord. 43C or its
successor ordinance, as codified in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.116 FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   See township Ord. 43C or as may be amended, as codified in
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A new principal building shall not be constructed or placed within any
portion of the 100-year floodplain that is classified as “AE” or its equivalent
successor category under federal regulations.
   (C)   A hospital, nursing home, jails, prison or manufactured home park
shall not be newly developed or expanded within any portion of the 100-year
floodplain.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.117 FILLING, EXCAVATION AND GRADING.
   (A)   Generally. All activities which involve disturbance, filling,
excavating or regrading of more than 5,000 square feet of earth shall require
the submittal of a site grading and soil and erosion control plan. Such 5,000
square feet limit shall be reduced to 2,000 square feet within the Little
Lehigh Creek Watershed. Such plan may required to be approved by the County
Conservation District. Such plan shall be carried out by each contractor,
builder and developer.
   (B)   Grading regulations.
      (1)   The existing grade shall not be increased so that unstable slopes
are created.
      (2)   The surface area of any yard adjacent to a building or structure
shall be graded so that surface water will be drained away from such
structures.
      (3)   The deposit of soils, detritus or other debris (as a result of site
preparation, grading or excavating) shall not be unsightly or detrimental to
any property, street, sewer or natural waterways.
      (4)   State erosion control regulations shall be met as a condition of
any zoning permit.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.118 OUTDOOR STORAGE CONTROL.
   (A)   No flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases shall be stored in
bulk above the ground, except for tanks or drums of less than 600 gallons of
fuel which is directly connected with engines, heating devices or appliances
located and operated on the same lot as the tanks or drums of fuel and which
have been approved by the township.
   (B)   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and products
stored outdoors (including those permitted in division (A) above) shall be
enclosed by a fence of a type, construction and size as shall be adequate to
protect the pubic health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   (1)   No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot in such a
form or manner that they may be transported off by natural causes or forces.
      (2)   No substance shall be allowed to enter any ground water or surface
water which can:
         (a)   Contaminate ground water or surface water;
         (b)   Render ground water or surface water undesirable as a source of
water supply or recreation; or
         (c)   Destroy aquatic life.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.119 SEWAGE WASTE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL CONTROL.
   (A)   All methods of sewage and waste treatment and disposal shall be
approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and in
accordance with the Sewage Plan for the township.
   (B)   Re-certifications of the adequacy of sewage disposal systems, or
demonstration of an adequate replacement systems, shall be required prior to
the expansion or conversion of any existing use.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.120 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   No land or structure, whether located on private or public property,
in any zoning district shall be used or occupied in any matter that creates any
noise so as to adversely effect the reasonable use or value of the surrounding
area or adjoining premises.
   (B)   The restrictions on noise set forth in division (A) above shall not
apply to any of the following noise sources:
      (1)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency;
      (2)   Emergency work to provide electricity, water or other public
utilities when public health or safety are involved;
      (3)   Domestic power tools between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on Mondays through Fridays and 6:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays or Sundays;
      (4)   Explosives and construction operation;
      (5)   Agriculture;
      (6)   Motor vehicles traveling on roads and highways;
      (7)   Public celebrations, specifically authorized by the township;
      (8)   Surface carriers engaged in commerce by railroad;
      (9)   The unamplified human voice; and
      (10)   Livestock or poultry.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.121 VIBRATION CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any device or
conduct or permit any use to be conducted that creates vibration which is above
the vibration perception threshold of an individual at or beyond the property
boundary of the source (if on private property) or at 50 feet from the source
(if on a public space or public right-of-way).
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A) above, VIBRATION PERCEPTION THRESHOLD
means the minimum ground- or structure-borne vibrational motion necessary to
cause a normal person to be aware of the vibration by such direct means as, but
not limited to, sensation by touch or visual observation of moving objects,
without needing the use of instruments.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.122 DUST AND ODOR CONTROL.
   No use shall generate odors or dust that are offensive to persons of average
sensitivities beyond the boundaries of the subject lot. This provision shall
not apply to normal farming activities that are exempted under the Pennsylvania
Right to Farm Act.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.123 CONTROL OF LIGHT AND GLARE.
   (A)   Street lighting exempted. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Street lighting that is owned, financed or maintained by the
township or the state or that is required to be placed by the township; or
      (2)   A routine individual porch light of a dwelling (not including a
directional spot light or flood light).
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FULL CUTOFF. Attribute of a light fixture from which:
         (a)   No light is emitted at or above a horizontal plane drawn through
the bottom of the fixture; and
         (b)   No more than 10% of the lamp’s intensity is emitted at or above
an angle ten degrees below that horizontal plane, at all lateral angles around
the fixture.
      FULLY SHIELDED. Attribute of a light fixture that is provided with
internal devices and/or external shields or louvers to prevent brightness from
the luminaire from causing glare at normal viewing angles.
      GLARE. Excessive brightness in the field of view that is sufficiently
greater than the brightness to which eyes are adapted, which causes annoyance
or loss in visual performance and visibility so as to jeopardize healthy,
safety or public welfare.
   (C)   Height of lights. No luminaire, spotlight or other light source that
is within 200 feet of a lot line of an existing dwelling or approved
residential lot shall be placed at a height exceeding 25 feet above the average
surrounding ground level. This limitation shall not apply to lights needed for
air safety nor lights intended solely to illuminate an architectural feature of
a building, nor lighting of outdoor public recreation facilities or a ski
resort.
   (D)   Diffusion and shielding.
      (1)   All light sources, including signs, shall be properly shielded,
aimed and diffused, as needed with a translucent or similar cover to prevent
exposed bulbs from being directly visible from streets, public sidewalks,
dwellings or adjacent lots.
      (2)   All light sources, including signs, shall be shielded around the
light source and carefully directed and placed to prevent the lighting from
creating a nuisance to reasonable persons in adjacent dwellings, and to prevent
the lighting from shining into the eyes of passing motorists.
   (E)   Flickering. Flashing, flickering or strobe lighting are prohibited,
except for non-advertising seasonal lights between October 25 and January 10.
   (F)   Spillover. Exterior lighting on an institutional, commercial or
industrial property shall not cause a spillover of light onto a residential lot
that exceeds 0.5 horizontal foot-candle at a distance ten feet inside the
residential lot line.
   (G)   Canopies. Any canopy over gasoline pumps, bank drive-through,
drugstore or fast-food facility shall have flat-lens light fixtures recessed
into the canopy or screened by an extension around the bottom of the canopy so
that lighting elements are not visible from another lot or street.
   (H)   Lighting of horizontal surfaces. For the lighting of predominantly
horizontal surfaces such as parking areas and vehicle sales areas, lighting
fixtures shall be aimed downward and shall include full cut-off measures as
needed to properly direct the light and to meet the maximum spillover
requirements of division (F) above and to prevent glare onto streets. The
township may require that light fixtures for nonresidential uses be placed
along the street and be aimed away from the street in a manner that also
minimizes light shining onto residential lots.
   (I)   Lighting of non-horizontal surfaces. For lighting of predominantly
non-horizontal surfaces such building walls and wall signs, lighting fixtures
shall be fully shielded and shall be aimed so as to not project light towards
neighboring residences or past the object being illuminated or skyward. Any
lighting of a flag shall use a beam no wider than necessary to illuminate the
flag. Lighting of a billboard should be attached to the top of the billboard
and project downward. However, lighting shall be allowed of the United States
flag from dusk to dawn, provided the light source shall have a beam spread no
greater than necessary to illuminate the flag.
   (J)   Signs. See §§
155.135 through
155.146, including limits on lighting of billboards and other off-premises
signs.
   (K)   Pole protection. Poles supporting lighting fixtures within or less
than five feet directly behind parking spaces, shall be protected by being
placed on concrete pedestals at least 30 inches high or suitably protected by
other approved means such as by the use of steel bollards.
   (L)   Illumination levels. Outdoor lighting of business, apartment and
institutional parking areas shall have sufficient lighting for safety purposes
during hours when the parking area in is use. If more than five acres of new
commercial development is proposed, then the applicant shall also provide
evidence that the use will meet the minimum and maximum illumination levels and
uniformity ratios recommended by the Illuminating Engineering Society of North
America in its most recent published standards.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.124 TREE CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Purposes. To protect wildlife and bird habitats, encourage ground
water recharge, reduce air pollution, avoid pollution of creeks by high
temperature runoff, maintain the attractive character of residential areas and
conserve energy.
   (B)   Applicability. This section shall not regulate the following:
      (1)   “Forestry” and “timber harvesting” as defined in the Zoning Code;
      (2)   The cutting down of trees that are diseased, dead or represent a
hazard to persons or property because of injury or location;
      (3)   The cutting down of up to five trees per lot per calendar year,
provided such cutting does not exceed 30% of the total basal area;
      (4)   The cutting down of trees where a building, parking area, driveway,
street, septic system, well or similar improvement has been approved, or areas
within 30 feet of such approved features or where necessary to allow soil
testing;
      (5)   The cutting down of trees to allow an expansion of an existing crop
farming use;
      (6)   The cutting down of up to 10% of the trees per calendar year on a
lot as part of routine thinning of woods or for firewood, provided such cutting
does not result in clearcutting; and
      (7)   The cutting down of trees with a trunk diameter of less than six
inches (measured at four and one-half feet above the ground).
   (C)   Tree cutting.
      (1)   Where tree cutting is proposed, site plans submitted to the
township shall show the extent of the tree cutting, and the extent of areas
where trees are proposed to remain and be protected.
      (2)   The applicant shall prove that the number of trees with a trunk
diameter of six inches or more measured at a height of four and one-half feet
above the average surrounding ground height that are cut down or effectively
killed will be held to an absolute minimum, while still allowing allowed
structures and uses to be developed.
   (D)   Protection of trees during construction.
      (1)   Reasonable efforts shall be taken during any construction to ensure
the protection of trees protected by this section are not accidentally injured
or killed. These efforts shall ensure that equipment does not damage tree
trunks, that roots are not compacted by vehicles and that the grade level
around trees is not changed by more than eight inches unless approved tree
wells are used. Durable temporary fencing and signs shall be placed around the
outer edge of the root systems of trees proposed to be preserved, including,
but not limited to, the areas beneath the canopy of the trees (“the dripline”).
Such fencing shall remain in place during all earth disturbance and
construction activities.
      (2)   If an approved subdivision or land development plan states that
certain trees are to be preserved, and if those trees are killed, then the
developer shall be required to replace those trees with new mature trees, in
addition to any other penalties provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 161, passed 4-18-2019)  Penalty, see §
155.999
SIGNS
§ 155.135 PURPOSES AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purposes. This subchapter is intended to: promote and maintain overall
community aesthetic quality; establish reasonable time, place and manner of
regulations for the exercise of free speech, without unreasonably regulating
content; promote traffic safety by avoiding distractions and sight distance
obstructions; and protect property values and ensure compatibility with the
character of neighboring uses.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   A zoning permit shall be required for all signs except for:
         (a)   Signs meeting the requirements of §
155.137; and
         (b)   Non-illuminated window signs.
      (2)   Only types, sizes and heights of signs that are specifically
permitted by this chapter within the applicable district shall be allowed.
   (C)   Changes on signs. Any lawfully existing sign (including nonconforming
signs) may be painted or repaired or changed in logo or message without a new
permit under this chapter provided that the changes do not increase the sign
area or otherwise result in noncompliance or an increased nonconformity with
this chapter.
   (D)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Signs legally existing at the time of enactment of this chapter and
which do not conform to the requirements of the chapter shall be considered
nonconforming signs.
      (2)   (a)   An existing lawful nonconforming sign that was lawful when it
was initially placed may be replaced with a new sign, provided the new sign is
not more nonconforming in any manner than the previous sign.
         (b)   A nonconforming sign shall not be expanded in a manner that does
not conform to this chapter.
   (E)   Unlawful signs.
      (1)   If a sign was placed without a required permit by the township, and
does not comply with this chapter, it shall not be considered lawful, and shall
be required to be removed.
      (2)   See the enforcement notice requirements in §§
155.020 through
155.035.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.136 SIGN DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall also be used in determining whether signs
meet the measurement and type requirements of this subchapter.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which identifies something that is no longer a bona
fide business, lessor, service, owner or product, or advertises an event or
activity that is not longer occurring, and/or for which no legal owner can be
found. This term shall also include a structural support for a sign if the sign
has been removed.
   AWNING. A non-illuminated sign painted on or attached to a fabric or vinyl
cover on a rigid frame. All or part of the allowed wall sign area may be placed
on an AWNING.
   BUILDING FACE. The vertical area of a particular side of a building, but not
including the area of any slanted roof.
   CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN. A sign that is designed to vary from message to
message by means of electronic lights, movable panels and/or movable letters.
   FLAG. Fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or
symbols, including a flag that is a symbol of a nation or political subdivision
or other entity.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign which is self-supporting upon the ground or which
is primarily supported by poles attached to the ground and not primarily
supported by a building.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the average ground level
surrounding a sign to the highest point of the sign and its supporting
structure. Religious symbols, when not accompanied by lettering, shall not be
restricted by the sign heights of this subchapter when attached to a tower or
spire of a place of worship.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, INTERNALLY. A sign illuminated by light from within the
sign rather than a source adjacent to or outside of the sign. A sign within a
display case with lights only shining onto the front of the sign shall be
considered to be EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign that is attached to a permanent overhang over a
sidewalk that extends from the face of a building, and which meets the minimum
clearance over a sidewalk established by the Construction Code. All or part of
the allowed wall sign area may be placed on a marquee, provided any new marquee
shall meet this chapter and the Construction Codes.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A type of freestanding sign which has a maximum total height
of eight feet and which has a solid bottom attached to the ground, as opposed
to be supported by a pole.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was lawful when it was installed, but which
would not meet current sign regulations of this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which directs attention to an object, product,
service, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business that is
primarily offered or located at a location other than the lot upon which the
sign is located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that is not an off-premises sign, such as a sign
that advertises a business or service offered on the premises.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A sign that advertises a candidate for election or an
opinion on a current political issue.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign that is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a
building, and which is not listed by this subchapter as an allowed temporary
sign, and which is attached to a chassis, wheels or legs that allows it to be
towed or carried from one location to another.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign that is attached to a building and that extends
perpendicular from the building and which meets requirements of the
Construction Code for secure construction and minimum clearance over a
sidewalk, and which does not extend over a street.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign advertising the availability of land or
building space for sale, lease or auction.
   SIGN.
      (1)   Any physical device for visual communication that is used for the
purpose of attracting attention from the public and that is visible from beyond
an exterior lot line, including all symbols, words, models, displays, banners,
flags, devices or representations.
      (2)   This shall not include displays that only involve symbols that are
clearly and entirely religious in nature, and which do not include advertising.
   WALL SIGN. A sign primarily supported by or painted on a wall of a building.
A WALL SIGN may also be displayed upon an awning or canopy, provided other
requirements of this chapter are met.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign which is readily visible and can be at least partially
read from an exterior lot line and which is attached to a window or transparent
door or that can be read through a window or transparent door.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.137 MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS.
   (A)   The following signs shall be permitted by right within all zoning
districts within the following regulations, and shall not be required to have a
permit under this subchapter.
Type and                            Max. Sign Area  Max. Sign Area
Definition of     Max. No. Of Signs per Sign* on    per Sign* on   Other
Signs Not         per Lot           Residential     Nonresidential Requirements
Requiring Permits                   Lots**(Sq. Ft.) Lots (Sq. Ft.)
                                                                                        Max. Sign Area Max. Sign Area
                                                                             Max. No.   per Sign* on   per Sign* on
Type and Definition of Signs Not Requiring Permits                           Of Signs   Residential    Nonresidential Other Requirements
                                                                             per Lot    Lots**(Sq.     Lots (Sq. Ft.)
                                                                                        Ft.)
Agricultural Sales or Christmas Tree Sign - Advertises the seasonal sale of  2          8              24             Shall only be posted during seasons when such products are actively
agricultural commodities or Christmas trees                                                                           offered for sale
Charitable Event Sign - Advertises a special event held a maximum of 9 days                                           Shall be placed a max. of 30 days prior to event and removed a max. of 7
in any calendar year that primarily is held to benefit a legitimate tax-     2          4              40             days after event
exempt nonprofit organization or charity
                                                                                                       32 (or 1 sign
                                                                                                       of 60 square
Contractor’s Sign - advertises a building tradesperson, engineer or                                  feet maximum   Shall only be permitted while such work is actively and clearly underway
architect who is actively conducting significant work on a particular lot    1 per      12             may be used if and a max. of 7 days afterward; such signs shall not be placed on the lot
that is not such person’s place of business, or a bank or agency that is   contractor                the sign is    for more than 1 year, unless a 1 year extension is granted by the Zoning
financing an on-site construction project                                                              shared by      Officer; shall not be illuminated
                                                                                                       multiple
                                                                                                       entities)
Directional Sign - provides information indicating traffic direction, entry             3, in addition 3, in addition
or exit, loading or service area, directions to apartment numbers or parking            to signs       to signs       Directional signs within a residential development shall not be
courts in a development, fire lanes, parking or closely similar information  No max.    painted on     painted on     illuminated
regarding the same lot as the sign is on, and that does not include                     pavement       pavement
advertising
Flag - a pennant made of fabric or materials with a similar appearance that                                           Flags of governments and flags that simply include colors or patterns are
is hung in such a way to flow in the wind. See also “Special Sale Signs” 1          20             20             not regulated by this chapter
below.
Garage Sale Sign - advertises an occasional garage sale/porch sale or        2 per                                    Such signs shall be posted not more than 3 days before the sale starts,
auction.                                                                     event      4 per sign     4 per sign     and shall be removed within 1 day after the sale ends; no sign shall be
                                                                                                                      posted for more than 6 days
                                                                                                                      Shall not be illuminated, except a sign of a medical doctor may be
Home Occupation Sign - advertises a permitted home occupation                1          1              2              externally lit; shall be setback a minimum of 10 feet from the street
                                                                                                                      right-of-way, unless printed on a mailbox; may be freestanding, attached
                                                                                                                      flat on a building wall or within a window
                                                                                        1, except 2
Identification Sign - only identifies the name and/or occupation of the                 for a
resident and/or the name, street address and/or use of a lot, but that does  1          principal      6              Maximum height of 8 feet
not include advertising                                                                 nonresidential
                                                                                        use
Open House Sign - advertises the temporary and periodic open house of a      2 per                                    Shall be placed max. of 5 days before open house begins, and be removed
property for sale or rent                                                    event      4              4              max. of 24 hrs. after open house ends; such sign shall not be posted more
                                                                                                                      than 5 consecutive days
Political Sign - advertises a person or party seeking political office or a  Maximum of Maximum of 10  Maximum of 20  Shall be removed a max. of 5 days after an election, vote or referendum,
political cause or opinion on a referendum or matter of political concern    2 sign     sq. ft. per    sq. ft. per    if the sign pertains to such; persons posting political signs shall
and which relates to a scheduled election or matter of upcoming vote by a    faces per  issue or       issue or       maintain a written list of locations of such signs, unless posting signs
governmental body                                                            issue or   candidate per  candidate per  on their own property; political signs shall not be placed on private
                                                                            candidate  street         street         property without the prior consent of the owner; if a political sign does
Political signs shall not obstruct safe sight distances at intersections     per street frontage       frontage       not meet these requirements, then it shall be regulated as an “off-
                                                                             per lot                                  premises sign”
Public Services Sign - advertises the availability of restrooms, telephone   No max.    2              2               
or other similar public convenience
Real Estate Sign - advertises the availability of property on which the sign 1 per                                    Shall only be placed on the property while it is actively for sale, lease
is located for sale, rent or lease                                           street the 12             30             or rent, and shall be removed a max. of 7 days after settlement or start
                                                                             lot abuts                                of lease
Service Organization/Place of Worship Sign - an off-premises sign stating
name of a recognized incorporated service organization or place of worship   2          2              2              Maximum of 2 such signs per such organization or place of worship
and that states the place and times of meetings or services and/or an arrow
directing persons to such location
                                                                                                       Total of 60
                                                                                                       sq. ft. for
Special Sale Signs/Banners - temporary banners or flags that advertise a                               all such       Shall be displayed a maximum of 90 total days per year. Such signs shall
special sales event at a lawful principal commercial business                5 per lot  Not permitted  banners, flags not flash, be internally illuminated, nor obstruct safe sight distance
                                                                                                       and other
                                                                                                       temporary
                                                                                                       signs
Time and Temperature Sign - with a sole purpose to announce the current time 1          Not permitted  30              
and temperature and any nonprofit public service messages
Trespassing Sign - indicating that a road is private, that trespassing is
prohibited on a lot, or controlling certain activities such as hunting and   No max.    2              4               
fishing on the lot
* Maximum sign areas are for each of 2 sides of each permitted sign, measured in square feet
** For the purposes of this section, a RESIDENTIAL LOT shall mean a lot occupied by a primarily residential use, or an undeveloped lot in a residential district
 
   (B)   In addition, the following are not regulated by this chapter:
      (1)   Historic sign. Memorializes an important historic place, event or
person and that is specifically authorized by the township or a county, state
or federal agency;
      (2)   Holiday decorations. Commemorates a holiday recognized by the
township, county, state or federal government and that does not include
advertising;
      (3)   Not readable sign. Not readable from any public street or any
exterior lot line;
      (4)   Official sign. Erected by the state, county, township or other
legally constituted governmental body, or specifically authorized by township
ordinance or resolution, and which exists for public purposes;
      (5)   Required sign. Only includes information required to be posted
outdoors by a government agency or the township;
      (6)   Right-of-way sign. Posted within the existing right-of-way of a
public street and officially authorized by the township or PennDOT, including
but not limited to decorative banners hung from street lights that are
authorized by the township; and
      (7)   Small signs. Signs of one square feet or less of sign area that are
displayed independently of other signs.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 170, passed - -2023)
§ 155.138 FREESTANDING, WALL AND WINDOW SIGNS (ON-PREMISES SIGNS).
   (A)   The following are the on-premises signs permitted on a lot within the
specified districts and within the following regulations, in addition to
“exempt signs” and “temporary signs” permitted in all districts by other
provisions of this subchapter. See definitions of the types of signs in §
155.136.
 
                               Total                       Total
                               Maximum      Total Maximum  Maximum Area
Zoning District or Type of Use Height of    Area of Wall   of Window    Total Maximum Area and Number of Freestanding Signs
                               Freestanding Signs          Signs
                               Signs
CON, R-A, AC and Residential                30 square feet
Districts, with signs in this               on each side   May be used
table limited to allowed                    of a principal in place of
principal nonresidential uses,              nonresidential a wall sign  1 sign on each street the lot abuts, each with a maximum sign area of
nursing homes and personal     8 feet       building or an with the     16 sq. ft.
care centers; for home                      allowed        same
occupation signs, see §                    nursing home   restrictions
155.137                                     or personal
                                            care center
                                            1 square foot  Temporary
                                            of sign area   non-
                                            for each       illuminated
                                            linear feet of window signs 1 sign per street that the lot abuts, each with a maximum area of 32
                                            building       are not      sq. ft.*; up to 10 square feet of this sign area may be used instead
VC Village Commercial District 8 feet       length on the  regulated.   for a projecting sign; see also “special sale signs/banners” in §
                                            building side  Other window 155.137
                                            on which such  signs shall
                                            signs are      be
                                            attached       considered
                                                           wall signs
                                            2 square feet  Temporary
                                            of sign area   non-
                                            for each       illuminated
                                            linear feet of window signs
C and I Districts and any                   building       are not      1 sign per street that the lot abuts, each with a maximum area of 40
other district not listed      20 feet      length on the  regulated;   sq. ft *; See also “special sale signs/banners” in §
above                                       building side  other window 155.137
                                            on which such  signs shall
                                            signs are      be
                                            attached       considered
                                                           wall signs
* If a lot includes 2 or more distinct principal nonresidential uses, the maximum freestanding sign area may be increased by 10 square feet for
each principal nonresidential use beyond the first nonresidential use. For example, in the C District, if a lot includes 3 such uses, the
maximum freestanding sign area shall be 40 plus 20 equals 60 square feet
 
   (B)   Maximum height of wall signs. The maximum height of wall signs shall
be equal to the top of the roof along the wall to which they are attached.
However, sign may be attached to a parapet roof that vertically extends up to
ten feet above the structural roof, provided the parapet roof appears to be an
architectural extension of the building.
   (C)   Portable signs (including “signs on mobile stands”) and other
temporary signs.
      (1)   Purpose. These standards recognize portable signs as a particular
type of sign that has the characteristics of a temporary sign but that has been
inappropriately used as a permanent sign. This section is based on the policy
that if a use desires to regularly display a sign for regularly changing
messages, that it erect a permanent sign within all of the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Prohibited. Portable signs are prohibited in all districts, except
as a temporary charitable event sign permitted by §
155.137.
      (3)   Business usage. Businesses are encouraged to provide an area on a
permanent sign that displays changeable messages, as opposed to using a
separate sign for such purpose.
   (D)   Signs on freestanding walls. A freestanding sign may be attached to a
decorative masonry or stone wall with a maximum height of six feet and a
maximum length of 12 feet, without being regulated by the wall setback
regulations of this chapter and with the wall itself not counting towards the
maximum sign area. Such walls may be placed in a yard, provided they do not
obstruct safe sight distances.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.139 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following prohibitions on signs shall apply in all zoning districts.
   (A)   Any moving object used to attract attention to a commercial use is
prohibited. However, certain flags and banners may be allowed as provided in §
155.137.
   (B)   (1)   Flashing, blinking, twinkling, animated, scrolling or moving
signs of any type are prohibited. Signs may change their message from time to
time provided that each message is visible for a minimum of ten seconds, except
as follows:
         (a)   Time and temperature signs may change more frequently; and
         (b)   A sign with a sign area greater than 100 square feet shall not
change its message more frequently than once every 30 seconds.
      (2)   In addition, flashing lights visible from a street shall not be
used to attract attention to a business. This restriction specifically includes
window signs, but does not prohibit Christmas lighting or displays, within §
155.137.
   (C)   Signs which emit smoke, visible vapors or particles, sound or odor are
prohibited.
   (D)   Signs which contain information that states that a lot may be used for
a purpose not permitted under this chapter are prohibited.
   (E)   Signs that are of such form, shape or color that they resemble an
official traffic sign, signal or device or that have any characteristics which
are likely to confuse or distract the operator of a motor vehicle on a public
street (such as prominent use of the words “Danger”) are prohibited.
   (F)   Signs or displays visible from a lot line that include words or images
that are obscene or pornographic are prohibited.
   (G)   Balloons of greater than 50 cubic feet that are tethered to the ground
or a structure for periods of over a day and that are primarily intended for
advertising purposes are prohibited.
   (H)   Floodlights and outdoor lasers for advertising purposes are
prohibited.
   (I)   Neon or argon lighting and similar types of gaseous internal
illumination shall be prohibited, except within the C Commercial Zoning
District.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.140 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS (INCLUDING BILLBOARDS).
   (A)   Purposes. Off-premises signs are controlled by this chapter for the
following purposes, to: ensure that a physical environment is maintained that
is attractive to desirable types of development, especially light industrial
and office parks; prevent visual pollution in the township and protect property
values, especially in consideration of the fact that most commercial areas of
the township are within close proximity to existing residences; prevent glare
on adjacent property and streets; avoid the creation of additional visual
distractions to motorists, especially along busy arterial streets that involve
complex turning movements and numerous traffic hazards; recognize the numerous
alternative forms of free speech available in the township, including existing
nonconforming off-premises signs, on-premises signs and temporary signs and
printed and electronic media; carry out the purposes of §
155.135.
   (B)   Nonconforming off-premises signs. This section is not intended to
require the removal of an existing lawfully-placed off-premises sign that is in
structurally sound condition.
   (C)   PennDOT sign. Signs erected and maintained by PennDOT are permitted by
right in all districts.
   (D)   Permitted off-premises signs. Except for other types of signs that are
specifically allowed by this section to be off-premises, an off-premises sign
is only permitted if it meet the following requirements.
      (1)   District. An off-premises sign is only permitted in the I District.
      (2)   Location. An off-premises sign shall be set back a minimum of 25
feet from all lot lines and street rights-of-way.
      (3)   Maximum total sign area on each of two sides. 300 square feet.
      (4)   Spacing. Any off-premises sign shall be separated by a minimum of
500 feet from any other off-premises sign with a sign area greater than 20
square feet, including signs on either side of a street and including existing
signs in other municipalities. No lot shall include more than one off-premises
sign, except as allowed in division (D)(6) below.
      (5)   Maximum height. Thirty-five feet above the elevation of the
adjacent street, measured at the street centerline.
      (6)   Attached. No off-premises sign or sign face shall be attached in
any way to any other off-premises sign, except that a sign of 300 square feet
may have two sign faces of 300 square feet each provided the angle between the
signs does not exceed 45 degrees.
      (7)   Control of lighting and glare. See standards in §
155.123. Lights shall be directed so they do not shine into the eyes of
motorists nor residents of homes. Lighting shall be directed downwards towards
the sign area and shall be turned off between the hours of 12:00 midnight and
6:00 a.m.
      (8)   Setbacks. No off-premises sign greater than 20 square feet in sign
area shall be located within 200 feet from any of the following:
         (a)   An existing dwelling; or
         (b)   A residential district.
      (9)   Condition. The sign shall be maintained in a good and safe
condition, particularly to avoid hazards in high winds. The area around the
sign shall be kept free of debris. If the message of a sign is no longer
intact, it shall be replaced with a solid color or a “for lease” sign.
   (E)   Additional off-premises signs. Up to two off-premises signs may be
placed if needed to direct motorists to a principal business use within the
township that is not adjacent to an arterial road. Such signs shall only be
posted with permission of the owner of the land upon which the signs will be
placed. Each sign shall not exceed four square feet and shall not exceed eight
feet in height. Such signs shall only be placed in the R-A or AC Districts if
they are along an arterial or collector road or in the VC, VR, C or I
Districts. Such signs shall not be illuminated. Such signs may be increased to
a total of six if they advertise a seasonal business (such as Christmas tree
sales) and are visible for less than 90 days per year.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.141 GENERAL DESIGN, LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Setbacks.
      (1)   No sign shall be located within ten feet from an existing street
right-of-way. However, if the closest edge of the sign will be placed a minimum
of 25 feet from the centerline of a street, then no setback shall be required
from the street right-of-way.
      (2)   A freestanding illuminated sign for a commercial or industrial
business shall not be located within five feet from an abutting lot line of
principal dwelling in a residential district.
      (3)   These setbacks shall not apply to official signs, nameplate signs,
public service signs and directional signs.
   (B)   Sight clearance. No sign shall be so located that it interferes with
the sight clearance requirements of §
155.092.
   (C)   Off-premises. No signs except permitted off-premises, official,
political or public service signs shall be erected on a property to which it
does not relate. A major development sign may be located on one lot in a
subdivision to advertise uses throughout the subdivision.
   (D)   Permission of owner. No sign shall be posted on any property or public
utility pole, unless permission has been received by the owner of such land or
pole.
   (E)   Utility poles. No sign shall be attached to a utility pole using metal
fasteners, except by a utility
or government agency.
   (F)   Construction of signs. Every permanent sign permitted in this section
shall be constructed of
durable materials and shall be kept in good condition and repair. The Zoning
Officer shall by written notice require a property owner or lessee to repair or
remove a dilapidated or unsafe sign within a specified period of time. If such
order is not complied with, the township may repair or remove such sign at the
expense of such owner or lessee.
   (G)   Wiring of signs. Signs shall be prohibited that involve electrical
cords laying across parking lots, driveways or sidewalks, except on a
residential property for seasonal lighting.
   (H)   Banners and overhanging signs. The Board of Supervisors may approve
the hanging of decorative banners within the street right-of-way and may
approve a sign overhanging across a street to advertise a community event or
festival.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.142 VEHICLES FUNCTIONING AS SIGNS.
   Any vehicle, trailer or structure to which a sign is affixed in such a
manner that the carrying of such sign(s) no longer is incidental to the primary
purpose of the vehicle, trailer or structure but instead becomes a primary
purpose in itself shall be considered a freestanding sign and shall be subject
to all of the requirements for freestanding signs in the district in which such
vehicle, trailer or structure is located.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.143 ABANDONED OR OUTDATED SIGNS.
   Signs advertising a use no longer in existence (other than a sign relating
to a building that is clearly temporarily vacant and being offered to new
tenants or for purchase) shall be removed within 180 days of the cessation of
such use.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.144 MEASUREMENT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Sign area shall include all lettering, wording and accompanying
designs and symbols, together with related background areas on which they are
displayed. One freestanding sign may include several signs that are all
attached to one structure, with the total sign area being the area of a common
geometric form that could encompass all signs.
   (B)   The sign area shall not include any structural supports that do not
include a message.
   (C)   Where the sign consists of individual letters or symbols attached to
or painted directly on a building or window, other than an illuminated
background that is a part of the sign, the sign area shall be the smallest
rectangle that includes all of the letters and symbols.
   (D)   The maximum sign area of sign shall be for each of two sides of a
sign, provided that only one side of a sign is readable from any location.
   (E)   Unless otherwise specified, all square footages in regards to signs
are maximum sizes.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.145 ILLUMINATION OF SIGNS.
   See light and glare control in §
155.123.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.146 MAJOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGNS.
   (A)   Residential development sign.
      (1)   If a subdivision or land development is approved to include over 15
dwelling units, then an additional sign shall be permitted up to two vehicle
entrances to the project from exterior public streets. Such sign may have two
sign faces on one structure, or one sign face on each structure on each side of
the entrance.
      (2)   Each such sign shall have a maximum sign area of 30 square feet.
Such signs shall have a maximum total height of six feet. The sign may be
attached to a stone or decorative masonry wall or fence constructed of weather-
resistant wood or materials with a similar appearance. In such case, the wall
or fence shall have a maximum total height of six feet and a maximum length of
12 feet.
   (B)   Applicant’s duty. The applicant shall prove to the Zoning Officer that
the signs will be of durable construction that requires little maintenance.
Such sign shall not be illuminated. Attractive low-maintenance landscaping
shall surround the sign.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.160 REQUIRED NUMBER OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Overall requirements.
      (1)   Number of spaces. Each use that is newly developed, enlarged,
significantly changed in type of use, or increased in number of establishments
shall provide and maintain off-street parking spaces in accordance with
following table and the regulations of this subchapter.
      (2)   Uses not listed. Uses not specifically listed in the following
table shall comply with the requirements for the most similar use listed in the
following table, unless the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Officer that an alternative standard should be used for that use.
      (3)   Multiple uses. Where a proposed lot contains or includes more than
one type of use, the number of parking spaces required shall be the sum of the
parking requirements for each separate use.
      (4)   Parking landscaping. See §§
155.092 and
155.093.
   (B)   Table of off-street parking requirements.
Table of Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces Plus 1 Off-street Parking Space for
    Required                            Each:
Table of Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use            Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces Required                               Plus 1 Off-street Parking Space for Each:
               All commercial uses, as applicable, shall provide additional parking or
Commercial     storage needed for maximum number of vehicles stored, displayed or based
Uses:          at the lot at any point in time. These additional spaces are not required   
               to meet the stall size and parking aisle width requirements of this
               chapter
Auto, boat,
recreational
vehicle or     1 per 15 vehicles, boats, RVs or homes displayed                           Employee
manufactured
home sales
Auto service   5 per repair/service bay and 1/4 per fuel nozzle with such spaces          Employee; plus any parking needed for a
station or     separated from accessways to pumps                                         convenience store under “retail sales”
repair garage
Bed and        1 per rental unit plus the 2 per dwelling unit                             Nonresident employee
breakfast use
Bowling alley  2 per lane plus 2 per pool table                                           1.1 employees
Car wash       Adequate waiting and drying areas                                          1.1 employees
Financial
institution    1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area accessible to customers, plus “office” 1.1 employees
(includes      parking for any administrative offices
bank)
Funeral home   1 per 5 seats in rooms intended to be in use at one time for visitors,     Employee
               counting both permanent and temporary seating
Haircutting/   1 per customer seat used for haircutting, hair styling, hair washing,      1.1 employees
hairstyling    manicuring or similar work
Hotel or motel 1 per rental unit plus 1 per 4 seats in any meeting room (plus any         1.1 employees
               required by any restaurant)
Indoor
recreation
(other than
bowling        1 per 4 persons of maximum capacity of all facilities                      1.1 employees
alley),
membership
club or
exercise club
Laundromat     1 per 3 washing machines                                                   On-site employee
Miniature golf 1 per hole                                                                 1.1 employees
Offices or
clinic,        5 per physician or physician’s assistant and 4 per dentist               1.1 employees
medical/dental
Offices, other 1 per 300 sq. ft. of total floor area                                       
than above
Outdoor
recreation
(other than    1 per 4 persons of capacity (50% may be on grass overflow areas with major
uses           driveways in gravel)                                                       1.1 employees
specifically
listed in this
table)
Personal
service use,
other than
haircutting/   1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area accessible to customers                    1.1 employees
hairstyling
(min. of 2 per
establishment)
Restaurant     1 per 4 seats, or 3 spaces for a use without customer seats; this parking  1.1 employees
               shall be calculated separately from a shopping center
Retail sales
(other than
types
separately     1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area of rooms accessible to customers            
listed and
other than a
shopping
center)
Retail sales
of only
furniture,
lumber,        1 per 800 sq. ft. of floor area of rooms accessible to customers            
carpeting,
bedding or
floor covering
Shopping
center
involving 5 or 1 per 200 sq. ft. of leaseable floor area                                   
more retail
establishments
on a lot
Tavern or
nightclub or   1 per 30 sq. ft. of total floor area                                       1.1 employees
after-hours
club
Theater or     1 per 4 seats, 1/2 of which may be met by convenient parking shared with
auditorium     other business uses on the same lot that are typically not routinely open  1.1 employees
               beyond 9:00 p.m.
Trade/hobby    1 per 2 students on-site during peak use                                   1.1 employee
school
Veterinarian   4 per veterinarian                                                         1.1 employee
office
Industrial                                                                                 
Uses: All      In addition to parking or storage needed for maximum number of vehicles     
industrial     stored, displayed or based at the lot at any point in time, which spaces    
uses           are not required to meet the stall size and aisle width requirements of     
(including     this chapter                                                                
warehousing,                                                                              
distribution   1 per 1.1 employee, based upon the maximum number of employees on-site at   
and            peak period of times                                                        
manufacturing)                                                                            1 visitor space for every 10 managers on
                                                                                          the site
Self-storage   1 per 20 storage units                                                     1.1 employee
development
Institutional                                                                             
Uses:
Assisted
living
facility and/  1 per 4 beds, plus 1.5 for each individual dwelling unit                   1.1 employees
or retirement
community
College or     1 per 1.5 students not living on campus who attend class at peak times     1.1 employee
university     (plus required spaces for on-campus housing)
Day care       1 per 10 children, with spaces designed for safe and convenient drop-off   1.1 employees
center         and pick-up
Hospital       1 per 3 beds                                                               1.1 employees
Library,
community
center or      1 per 5 seats (or 1 per 250 sq. ft. of floor area accessible to patrons    1.1 employee
cultural       and/or users if seats are not typically provided)
center or
museum
Nursing home   1 per 5 beds                                                               1.1 employees
Place of       1 per 5 seats in room of largest capacity; for pews that are no individual
worship or     seats, each 48 inches shall count as 1 seat                                Employee
church
School,
primary or     1 per 4 students aged 16 or older                                          1.1 employee
secondary
Swimming pool, 1 per 50 sq. ft. of water surface, other than wading pools                 1.1 employee
non-household
Treatment      1 per 2 residents aged 16 years or older plus 1 per nonresident intended   Nonresident employee
center         to be treated on-site at peak times
Utility        1 per vehicle routinely needed to service facility                          
facility
Residential                                                                               
Uses:
Boarding house 1 per rental unit or bed for adult, whichever is greater                   Nonresident employee
Dwelling unit, 2 per dwelling unit; as part of a new subdivision, if a vehicle must be
other than     moved from one space in order to access the second space, then an
types listed   additional parking space shall be available for each dwelling unit, such    
separately in  as an on-street space in front of the dwelling or an overflow parking lot
this table
Group home     1 per 2 residents, unless the applicant proves the home will be limited to Employee
               persons who will not be allowed to drive a vehicle from the property
Home           See §§
occupation     155.065 through                                                             
               155.075
Housing
permanently
restricted to  1 per dwelling/rental unit, except 0.4 per dwelling/rental unit if
persons 62     evidence is presented that the non-physically handicapped persons will     Nonresident employee
years and      clearly primarily be over 70 years old
older and/or
the physically
handicapped
 
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.161 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   General. Parking spaces and accessways shall be laid out to result in
safe and orderly use, and to fully take into account all of the following:
vehicular access onto and off the site; vehicular movement within the site;
loading areas; pedestrian patterns; and any drive-through facilities. No
parking area shall cause a safety hazard or impediment to traffic off the lot.
   (B)   Existing parking.
      (1)   Any parking spaces serving such pre-existing structures or uses at
the time of adoption of this chapter shall not in the future be reduced in
number below the number required by this chapter.
      (2)   If a new principal nonresidential building is constructed on a lot,
then any existing parking on such lot that serves such building shall be
reconfigured to comply with this chapter, including, but not limited to,
requirements for channelization of traffic from adjacent streets,
channelization of traffic within the lot, minimum aisle widths, paving and
landscaping.
   (C)   Change in use or expansion. A structure or use in existence at the
effective date of this chapter that expands or changes in use of an existing
principal building shall be required to provide all of the required parking for
the entire size and type of the resulting use, except as follows.
      (1)   If an existing lawful use includes less parking than would be
required if the use would be newly developed, then that deficit of parking
shall be grandfathered for reuses of an existing building. For example, an
existing store might include three parking spaces and would have been required
to provide seven spaces if it was newly developed. Therefore, there is an
existing nonconforming deficit of four spaces. Then, if that store is converted
to an office that would need ten spaces, the office would need to provide a
total of six spaces (ten spaces minus the pre-existing deficit of four equals
six).
      (2)   If a nonresidential use expands by an aggregate total maximum of 5%
in the applicable measurement (such as building floor area) beyond what existed
at the time of adoption of this chapter, then no additional parking is
required. For example, if an existing building included 3,000 square feet, and
a single minor addition of 150 square feet was proposed, then additional
parking would not be required. This addition without providing new parking
shall only be allowed one time per lot.
   (D)   Continuing obligation of parking and loading spaces. All required
numbers of parking spaces and off-street loading spaces shall be available as
long as the use or building which the spaces serve still exist, and such spaces
shall not be reduced in number below the minimum required by this subchapter.
No required parking area or off-street loading spaces shall be used for any
other use (such as storage or display of materials) that interferes with the
area’s availability for parking.
   (E)   Location of parking.
      (1)   Required off-street parking spaces shall be on the same lot or
abutting lot with the principal use served.
      (2)   A written and signed lease shall be provided, if applicable.
   (F)   Reduction of parking requirements as a special exception.
      (1)   Purposes.
         (a)   To minimize the amount of land covered by paving, while making
sure adequate parking is provided; and
         (b)   To recognize that unique circumstances may justify a reduction
in parking.
      (2)   As a special exception, after the Planning Commission has been
provided an opportunity for a review, the Zoning Hearing Board may authorize a
reduction in the number of off-street parking spaces required to be provided
for a use if the applicant proves to the satisfaction of the Zoning Hearing
Board that a lesser number of spaces would be sufficient.
         (a)   The applicant shall provide evidence justifying the proposed
reduced number of spaces, such as studies of similar developments during their
peak hours. The applicant shall also provide relevant data, such as numbers of
employers, peak expected number of customers/visitors and similar data.
         (b)   1.   Under this section, an applicant may prove that a reduced
number of parking spaces is justified because more than one principal use will
share the same parking. In such case, the applicant shall prove that the
parking has been designed to encourage shared use, and that long-term
agreements ensure that the parking will continue to be shared. The amount of
the reduction in parking should be determined based upon whether the different
uses have different hours of peak demand and/or overlapping customers.
            2.   In addition, an applicant may prove that parking needs will be
reduced or that off-site parking is feasible because the applicant agrees to
make a long-term commitment to a shuttle service for residents or employees.
         (c)   Reserved area for additional parking: under this section, the
Zoning Hearing Board may require that a portion of the required parking be met
through a reservation of an area for future parking. The Board may require the
reservation for a certain number of years or an indefinite period corresponding
to the years the buildings are in use.
            1.   Such reservation shall be in a form acceptable to the Zoning
Hearing Board Solicitor that legally binds current and future owners of the
land to keep the reserved parking area in open space and then to provide the
additional parking if the township determines it is necessary. A deed
restriction is recommended.
            2.   If approved under this division (F)(2)(c), the applicant shall
present a site plan to the Zoning Officer that shows the layout that will be
used for the additional parking if the parking is required to be provided in
the future. The site plan shall show that the additional parking is integrated
with the overall traffic access and pedestrian access for the site, and that
the additional parking will be able to meet township requirements.
            3.   The additional parking that is “reserved” under this division
(F)(2)(c) shall be required to be kept as landscaped open area, until such time
as the Zoning Hearing Board decision may authorize the land’s release from the
restriction, or until the township may require that the land be developed as
parking.
            4.   The Zoning Officer shall periodically review the sufficiency
of the parking that is provided. If the Zoning Officer in the future determines
that the reserved parking is needed to meet actual demand, he or she shall
provide written notice to the property owner. The property owner shall then
have one year to develop the reserved area into off-street parking in
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.162 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Backing onto a street.
         (a)   No parking area shall be designed to require or encourage parked
vehicles to back into a public street in order to leave a parking space, except
for:
            1.   A driveway serving one dwelling; or
            2.   A driveway that enters onto a local street or parking court.
         (b)   Parking spaces may back onto an alley.
      (2)   Design. Every required parking space shall be designed so that each
motor vehicle may proceed to and from the parking space provided for it without
requiring the moving of any other vehicle, unless specifically permitted
otherwise.
      (3)   Buffer yards or street right-of-way. Parking areas shall not be
within a required buffer yard or street right-of-way.
      (4)   Separation from street. Except for parking spaces immediately in
front of individual dwellings, all areas for off-street parking, off-street
loading and unloading and the storage or movement of motor vehicles shall be
physically separated from the street by a continuous grass or landscaped
planting strip, except for necessary and approved vehicle entrances and exits
to the lot.
      (5)   Stacking and obstructions. Each lot shall provide adequate area
upon the lot to prevent back-up of vehicles on a public street while awaiting
entry to the lot, or while waiting for service at a drive-through facility.
   (B)   Size and marking of parking spaces.
      (1)   Each parking space shall be a rectangle with a minimum width of
nine feet and a minimum length of 18 feet, except the minimum sized rectangle
shall be eight feet by 22 feet for parallel parking and except where a larger
space is required by division (C) below.
      (2)   For handicapped spaces, see division (G) below.
      (3)   All spaces shall be marked to indicate their location, except those
of a one- or two-family dwelling.
   (C)   Aisles. Parking spaces and aisles shall be designed and built in
conformance with the following:
 
                 Parking Space Parking Space Aisle Width -    Aisle Width -
Angle of Parking Min. Width    Min. Depth    One- Way Traffic Two- Way Traffic
                 (feet)        (feet)        (feet)           (feet)
90 degrees       9             18            20               22
55 to 89 degrees 10            22            18               22
35 to 54 degrees 10            21            15               20
1 to 34 degrees  10            19            12               20
Parallel         8             22            12               20
Min. = Minimum
 
   (D)   Accessways and driveways.
      (1)   Width of driveway at entrance onto a public street.
 
Width of Driveway at Entrance onto a Public Street, One-Way Use* Two-Way Use*
at the Edge of the Cartway*
Minimum                                             12 feet      22 feet
Maximum                                             20 feet      30 feet
* This standard may be revised where a different standard is required by
PennDOT for an entrance to a state road, or where the applicant demonstrates
to the Zoning Officer that a wider width is needed for truck access
 
      (2)   Drainage. Adequate provisions shall be made to maintain
uninterrupted parallel drainage along a public street at the point of driveway
entry. The township may require an applicant to install an appropriate type and
size of pipe at a driveway crossing.
   (E)   Paving, grading and drainage.
      (1)   Parking and loading facilities and including driveways shall be
graded and adequately drained to prevent erosion or excessive water flow across
streets or adjoining properties.
      (2)   Except for landscaped areas, the township may require all required
parking, loading facilities and driveways serving principal nonresidential uses
(other than agricultural uses) or serving apartment or townhouse uses to be
surfaced with asphalt, concrete, paving block or other low-dust materials pre-
approved by the township.
         (a)   Parking areas that are not used on a daily basis or that are
only used seasonally may be approved to be maintained in stone, grass or other
suitable surfaces. For example, such parking spaces may be allowed to be grass,
while major aisles are covered by stone.
         (b)   If the design and materials are found to be acceptable by the
Township Engineer, portions of parking areas may be covered with a low-dust
porous parking surface that is designed to promote ground water recharge. This
might include porous asphalt or pervious concrete placed over open graded
gravel and crushed stone. Porous parking surfaces shall not be allowed in areas
routinely used by heavy trucks.
         (c)   Curbing should not be required in parking areas except where
absolutely necessary to control stormwater runoff.
         (d)   The township may require pavement of an area in asphalt,
concrete or similar impervious surface, with a raised edge, where it is
necessary to contain potential spills of hazardous substances.
   (F)   Lighting of parking areas. See light and glare control in §
155.123.
   (G)   Parking for persons with disabilities/handicapped parking.
      (1)   Number of spaces. See requirements under the Federal Americans With
Disabilities Act for parking for persons with disabilities. The following is a
summary of some of the relevant requirements in effect as of the enactment date
of this chapter.
Total No. of Parking Spaces on the Lot Required Minimum No./Percent of Ada-
                                       accessible Parking Spaces
Total No. of Parking Spaces on the Lot Required Minimum No./Percent of Ada-
                                       accessible Parking Spaces
1 to 25                                1 van-accessible
26 to 50                               2, 1 of which must be van-accessible
51 to 75                               3, 1 of which must be van-accessible
76 to 100                              4, 1 of which must be van-accessible
101 to 150                             5, 1 of which must be van-accessible
151 to 200                             6, 1 of which must be van-accessible
201 to 300                             7, 1 of which must be van-accessible
301 to 400                             8, 1 of which must be van-accessible
401 to 500                             9, 2 of which must be van-accessible
501 to 1,000                           2% of total number of spaces, 1/8th of
                                       which must be van-accessible
                                       20 plus 1% of spaces for each 100 over
1,001 or more                          1000 spaces, 1/8 of which must be van-
                                       accessible
 
      (2)   Location. Handicapped parking spaces shall be located where they
would result in the shortest reasonable accessible distance to a handicapped
accessible building entrance. Curb cuts shall be provided as needed to provide
access from the handicapped spaces.
      (3)   Minimum size and slope. See requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act regulations.
      (4)   Marking. All required handicapped spaces shall be well-marked in
compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act. Such signs and/or markings
shall be maintained over time.
      (5)   Paving. Handicapped parking spaces and adjacent areas needed to
access them with a wheelchair shall be covered with a smooth surface that is
usable with a wheelchair.
   (H)   Paved area setbacks (including off-street parking setbacks).
      (1)   Intent. To ensure that parked or moving vehicles within a lot do
not obstruct sight distance or interfere with pedestrian traffic, to aid in
stormwater management along streets and to prevent vehicles from entering or
exiting a lot other than at approved driveways.
      (2)   New or expanded vehicle parking or storage. Any new or expanded
vehicle parking or vehicle storage area serving a principal nonresidential use
shall be separated from a public street by a planting strip. The planting strip
shall have a minimum width of 15 feet and be maintained in grass or other
attractive vegetative groundcover. The planting strip may be on one or both
sides of any sidewalk, provided the planting width totals 15 feet. This 15 feet
width shall be increased to 25 feet for a lot including 100 or more parking
spaces.
         (a)   The planting strip shall not include heights or locations of
plants that would obstruct safe sight distances, but may include deciduous
trees that allow motorists to maintain views under the leaf canopy.
         (b)   The planting strip may be placed inward from the shoulder of an
uncurbed street or inward from the curb of a curbed street. The planting strip
may overlap the street right-of-way, provided it does not conflict with PennDOT
requirements, and provided that the township and PennDOT as applicable maintain
the right to replace planting areas within the right-of-way with future street
improvements.
         (c)   Approximately perpendicular driveway crossings may be placed
within the planting strip. Mostly vegetative stormwater channels may be placed
within the planting strip.
         (d)   The following shall be prohibited within the planting strip:
            1.   Paving, except as allowed by division (H)(2)(c) above, and
except for street widenings that may occur after the development is completed;
            2.   Fences; and
            3.   Parking, storage or display of vehicles or items for sale or
rent.
         (e)   Where feasible, where a sidewalk is not installed, this setback
should include an unobstructed generally level width running parallel to a
street that is suitable for a person to walk.
      (3)   See landscaping requirements in §§
155.092 and
155.093.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.163 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Each use shall provide off-street loading facilities, which meet the
requirements of this section, sufficient to accommodate the maximum demand
generated by the use and the maximum size vehicle, in a manner that will not
routinely obstruct traffic on a public street and traffic entering and exiting
the lot. If no other reasonable alternative is feasible, traffic may be
obstructed for occasional loading and unloading along an alley, provided
traffic has the ability to use another method of access.
   (B)   At the time of review under this chapter the applicant shall provide
evidence to the Zoning Officer on whether the use will have sufficient numbers
and sizes of loading facilities. The Planning Commission may provide advice to
the Zoning Officer on this matter as part of any plan review by such Boards.
For the purposes of this section, the words “loading” and “unloading” are used
interchangeably.
   (C)   Each space and the needed maneuvering room shall not intrude into
approved buffer areas and landscaped areas.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
§ 155.164 FIRE LANES AND ACCESS.
   (A)   Fire lanes shall be provided where required by state or federal
regulations or other local ordinances.
   (B)   Access shall be also provided so that fire equipment can reach all
sides of principal nonresidential buildings and multi-family/apartment
buildings. This access shall be able to support a loaded fire pumper truck, but
shall not necessarily be paved.
   (C)   The specific locations of fire lanes and fire equipment access are
subject to approval by the township, after review by local Fire Officials.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   All of the enforcement, violations and penalty provisions of the
Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101
et seq., are hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference. (Note: as of
the adoption date of this chapter, these provisions were primarily in §§ 616.1
(53 P.S. §§ 10616.1), 617 (53 P.S. §§ 10617) and 617.2 (53 P.S. §§ 10617.2) of
such Act.)
   (A)   Violations. Any person who shall commit or who shall permit any of the
following actions violates this chapter:
      (1)   Failure to secure a zoning permit prior to any of the following: a
change in use of land or structure; or the erection, construction or alteration
of any structure or portion thereof; or the placement of a sign; or a change in
the area of a use or the land coverage or setback of a use; or the excavation
or grading of land to prepare for the erection, construction or alteration of
any structure or portion thereof;
      (2)   Placement of false statements on or omitting relevant information
from an application for a zoning permit;
      (3)   Undertaking any action in a manner which does not comply with a
zoning permit;
      (4)   Violation of any condition imposed by a decision of the Zoning
Hearing Board in granting a variance or special exception or other approval;
      (5)   Violation of any condition imposed by a decision of the Board of
Supervisors in granting any approval under this chapter; or
      (6)   Violation of any condition imposed by a decision of a court of
competent jurisdiction, where such court has granted zoning approval with
conditions.
   (B)   Enforcement notice. If the township has reason to believe that a
violation of a provision of the zoning chapter has occurred, the township shall
initiate enforcement proceedings by sending an enforcement notice as provided
in § 616.1 of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code, being 53 P.S. §
10616.1. Prior to sending an official enforcement notice, the Zoning Officer
may at his or her option informally request compliance.
   (C)   Time limits. An official enforcement notice shall state the deadline
to complete bringing the property into compliance with this chapter, and shall
state that the applicant has 30 days from the receipt of the notice to appeal
to the Zoning Hearing Board.
   (D)   Enforcement, penalties and remedies. The causes of action and
enforcement remedies provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning
Code, as amended, being 53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq., are hereby incorporated by
reference. (Note: as of the adoption date of this chapter, such provisions were
primarily in §§ 617 (53 P.S. §§ 10617) and 617.2 (53 P.S. §§ 10617.2) of such
law.)
      (1)   Violations and penalties. Any person, partnership, corporation or
other entity who has violated or permitted the violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon being found liable therefor in a civil enforcement
proceeding commenced by the township, pay a judgment of not more than $500 plus
all court costs, including the reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
township as a result thereof. No judgment shall commence or be imposed, levied
or be payable until the date of the determination of a violation by the
District Justice. If the defendant neither pays nor timely appeals the
judgment, the township may enforce the judgment pursuant to the applicable
rules of civil procedure. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate violation, unless a District Justice determining that there has been
a violation further determines that there was a good faith basis for the person
violating this chapter to have believed that there was no such violation, in
which event there shall be deemed to have been only one such violation until
the fifth day following the date of the determination of a violation by the
District Justice, and thereafter each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation. All judgments, costs and reasonable attorney
fees collected for the violation of this chapter shall be paid over to the
township for the general use of the township. Imprisonment is not authorized
under this chapter.
      (2)   Remedies. In case any building, structure, sign or landscaping is
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, maintained
or used or any land is used or activity conducted in violation of this chapter
or any of the permits issued under this chapter or any conditions imposed upon
the grant of a special exception or variance by the Zoning Hearing Board, then,
in addition to any other remedies provided by law, the Board of Supervisors may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain, correct or
abate such building, structure, landscaping, use or activity or to prevent, in
and about such premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting a
violation.
   (E)   Enforcement evidence. In any appeal of an enforcement notice to the
Zoning Hearing Board, the township shall have the responsibility of presenting
its evidence first.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 126A, passed 2-7-2013)
APPENDIX A: FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS
   Functions of Roads: Different types of roads in the township serve different
types of purposes:
   (A)   Expressways. Provide major highway connections between regions and
major parts of regions:
      (1)   Pennsylvania Turnpike (Northeast Extension/I-476).
   (B)   Arterials. Provide access between major parts of counties and through
and around cities and towns:
      (1)   Buckeye Road;
      (2)   Cedar Crest Boulevard (PA Route 29);
      (3)   Chestnut Street (PA Route 29); and
      (4)   King’s Highway (PA Route 100).
   (C)   Collectors. Provide connections between arterial highways and local
roads:
      (1)   Major collectors.
         (a)   Brunner Road;
         (b)   Fifth Street/Mountain Drive;
         (c)   King’s Highway South;
         (d)   Main Road East;
         (e)   Main Road West;
         (f)   St. Peter’s Road;
         (g)   Shimerville Road;
         (h)   Vera Cruz Road North; and
         (i)   Vera Cruz Road South.
      (2)   Minor collectors.
         (a)   Allen Street;
         (b)   Churchview Road;
         (c)   East Macungie Road;
         (d)   Fountain Road;
         (e)   Indian Creek Road;
         (f)   Keystone Avenue;
         (g)   Limeport Road;
         (h)   Macungie Mountain Road;
         (i)   Mill Road;
         (j)   Powder Valley Road;
         (k)   Sigmund Road;
         (l)   South Second Street;
         (m)   Tank Farm Road;
         (n)   Woodlawn Drive; and
         (o)   Yeakel’s Mill Road.
   (D)   Locals. Provide direct access to abutting properties and channel local
traffic to collector streets:
      (1)   All other existing roads.
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010)
APPENDIX B: ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1100.jpg]
 
(Ord. 126, passed 3-18-2010; Ord. 157, passed 9-6-2018)
CHAPTER 156: OFFICIAL MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/142fbcb0b85982fbf9a42af7cb57d4b1076f9faf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1102.jpg]
 
(Ord. 128, passed 3-18-2010)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Pennsylvania Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Code
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes
References to Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA STATUTES
P.S. Section Code Section
P.S. Section                          Code Section
3 P.S. §§ 901 et seq.               35.081
18 P.S. § 5508                       30.04
                                      151.032,
32 P.S. §§ 679.101 et seq.          151.064,
                                      151.080
32 P.S. §§ 693.1 et seq.            151.021
35 P.S. §§ 637.1 et seq.            33.15,
                                      33.16
35 P.S. § 691.1 et seq.              50.23
35 P.S. §§ 691.1 through 691.1001   53.02
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 et seq.            151.021
35 P.S. §§ 750.1 through 750.20a    53.02
                                      50.02,
                                      50.09,
35 P.S. §§ 6018.101 et seq.         50.21,
                                      50.23,
                                      50.24,
                                      92.36
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 et seq.         150.15
35 P.S. §§ 7210.101 through 7210.110150.01
35 P.S. § 7210.501                   150.15
35 P.S. § 7210.501(c)                150.15
35 P.S. § 65101 et seq.              10.03
36 P.S. §§ 670-101 et seq.          154.092
36 P.S. § 670-420                    154.092
47 P.S. §§ 1-101 et seq.            155.074
52 P.S. § 30.51 et seq.              50.23
53 P.S. §§ 881.101 et seq.          32.16
53 P.S. §§ 895.101 et seq.          32.16
53 P.S. § 1121                       90.01
53 P.S. §§ 4471 et seq.             110.10
53 P.S. § 6913                       35.008,
                                      35.023
53 P.S. §§ 6924.101 et seq.         35.001
53 P.S. §§ 4000.101 et seq.         50.21,
                                      50.24
53 P.S. § 4000.1111                  50.24
53 P.S. § 4000.1501                  50.25
53 P.S. § 6924.505(h)                35.005
53 P.S. § 6924.505(j)                35.005
53 P.S. § 6924.505(k)                35.005
53 P.S. § 6924.509(b)                35.006
53 P.S. § 6924.511                   35.004
53 P.S. § 6924.511(a)(1)             35.001
53 P.S. § 6924.511(a)(3)             35.001
53 P.S. § 6924.511(b)                35.001
                                      35.003,
53 P.S. § 6924.512                   35.005,
                                      35.999
53 P.S. § 6924.513                   35.005
53 P.S. §§ 7101 et seq.             35.047
                                      154.002,
                                      154.011,
                                      154.012,
                                      154.017,
                                      154.031,
                                      154.076,
                                      154.091,
                                      154.106,
53 P.S. §§ 10101 et seq.            154.128,
                                      154.166,
                                      155.001,
                                      155.006,
                                      155.022,
                                      155.026 -
                                      155.032,
                                      155.034,
                                      155.051,
                                      155.999
53 P.S. § 10107                      155.030,
                                      155.051
53 P.S. § 10503(2)(ii),(3)           154.163
53 P.S. § 10503(8)                   154.007
53 P.S. § 10508                      154.092,
                                      154.129
53 P.S. § 10508(4)                   154.005
53 P.S. § 10510                      154.129
53 P.S. § 10511                      154.130
53 P.S. § 10603(b)                   155.113,
                                      155.072
53 P.S. § 10603(d)                   155.113
53 P.S. § 10603(g)                   155.072
53 P.S. § 10604                      155.021
53 P.S. § 10604(1)                   155.072
53 P.S. § 10604(2)                   155.072
53 P.S. § 10604(3)                   155.070
53 P.S. § 10605                      155.021
53 P.S. § 10609.1                    155.027
53 P.S. § 10609.2                    155.027
53 P.S. § 10616.1                    155.999
53 P.S. § 10617                      155.999
53 P.S. § 10617.2                    155.999
53 P.S. § 10619                      155.032
53 P.S. § 10903(b)                   155.029
53 P.S. § 10906(a),(b),(c)           155.029
53 P.S. § 10908                      155.030
53 P.S. § 10909                      155.029
53 P.S. § 10909.1                    155.029
53 P.S. § 10914.1                    155.022,
                                      155.029
53 P.S. § 10915.1                    155.029
53 P.S. § 10916                      155.029
53 P.S. § 10916.1                    155.027
53 P.S. § 11102-A                    155.022
53 P.S. § 65703                      51.01
53 P.S. § 66553                      34.15
53 P.S. § 66601                      10.99
53 P.S. § 66803(d)                   34.01
53 P.S. § 67006                      31.07
53 P.S. § 101001-A                   155.031
53 P.S. § 101002-A                   155.031
53 P.S. § 101003-A                   155.031
53 P.S. § 101004-A                   155.031
53 P.S. § 101005-A                   155.031
53 P.S. § 101006-A                   155.031
63 P.S. § 9.1 et seq.                35.001
72 P.S. § 806                        35.047,
                                      35.999
72 P.S. § 6924.504                   35.001
72 P.S. § 6924.509(e)                35.001
72 P.S. §§ 7301 et seq.             35.001
72 P.S. § 7303                       35.001
72 P.S. § 8102-D                     35.046
73 P.S. § 6924.512(a)(3)             35.003
77 P.S. § 1031(f)(4)                 31.61
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CODE
 
Pa. Code Section                     Code Section
25 Pa. Code Chapter 71 through 73    52.02
34 Pa. Code Chapter 401 et seq.      150.15
34 Pa. Code Chapters 401 through 405 150.01
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES
Pa. C.S. Section Code Section
Pa. C.S. Section            Code Section
53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 13 Subch. F  35.005
53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 23 Subch. A  35.005
53 Pa.C.S. §§ 8421 et seq.35.005
53 Pa.C.S. § 8425          35.005
53 Pa.C.S. Ch. 85, Subch. F 35.024
68 Pa.C.S. §§ 3101 et seq.154.031
68 Pa.C.S. §§ 5101 et seq.154.031,
                            154.166
Pa.C.S. Title 75            70.01
75 Pa.C.S. §§ 101 et seq. 155.051
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PENNSYLVANIA CONSOLIDATED STATUTES ANNOTATED
 
Pa. C.S.A. Section          Code Section
1 Pa.C.S.A. § 1937         35.007
65 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 701 et seq150.18
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1965-009 - -1965     31.50
1972-10  12-29-1972  32.15
1981-004 7-1-1981    30.04
1981-006 10-7-1981   31.60
1984-006 9-5-1984    33.01 -
                     33.04
1986-008 7-2-1986    110.10
1986-010 11-5-1986   90.02
1987-003 3-11-1987   Ch. 71, Sch. II
1987-005 4-1-1987    90.02
1989-011 - -1989     90.03
1994-003 3-9-1994    34.35
1996-08  3-21-1996   34.35
1998-003 2-19-1998   34.35
1998-004 3-5-1998    30.06
1991-001 2-18-1999   30.05
2000-004 2-17-2000   34.35
2002-003 2-7-2002    34.35
2003-005 6-5-2003    34.35
2005-022 5-19-2005   91.06
2005-024 10-6-2005   34.01
2006-028 9-7-2006    34.02
2006-031 10-5-2006   34.50
2007-027 10-4-2007   31.30 -
                     31.38
                     33.15,
2008-022 11-6-2008   33.16,
                     33.99
2008-025 12-4-2008   33.25 -
                     33.30
2009-016 2-5-2009    36.02
2010-026 10-21-2010  50.40,
                     50.99
2010-031 11-4-2010   10.07
2011-029 12-14-2011  32.01
2011-031 12-29-2011  30.02
2014-021 6-5-2014    70.02
2014-024 10-2-2014   34.35
2016-021 4-21-2016   31.23
2017-017 1-3-2017    36.02
2017-011 1-3-2017    30.18
2017-026 5-18-2017   34.15 -
                     34.22
2017-043 11-16-2017  153.01
2017-047 11-16-2017  130.02
2018-010 1-2-2018    30.18
2019-010 1-7-2019    30.18
2020-020 2-6-2020    34.19
2020-036 12-3-2020   36.02
2020-037 12-3-2020   36.02
2022-025 2-17-2022   50.40,
                     50.99
2023-020 4-20-2023   31.61
2024-025 5-2-2024    31.61
2024-040 12-5-2024   36.02
2025-020 1-16-2025   34.50
2025-022 2-6-2025    36.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
12       4-5-1961    31.20 -
                     31.22
12A      12-27-1962  31.22
                     112.01 -
15       2-2-1966    112.08,
                     112.99
                     112.01 -
15A      12-27-1967  112.08,
                     112.99
                     113.01 -
18-1971  4-7-1971    113.04,
                     113.99
20       4-3-1974    31.21
23       6-5-1974    90.01,
                     90.99
28       6-6-1979    90.02,
                     90.99
                     110.01 -
32       5-5-1982    110.09,
                     110.99
33       12-29-1982  50.09
34       12-28-1983  130.01,
                     130.99
35       12-4-1985   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     50.01 -
36       12-27-1985  50.08,
                     50.99
37       12-27-1985  30.01
38       2-5-1986    Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     111.01 -
39       8-6-1986    111.06,
                     111.99
42       4-1-1987    90.02,
                     90.99
45       3-2-1988    51.01
46       8-3-1988    Ch. 72, Sch. I
48       1-3-1989    152.01
49       5-3-1989    Ch. 71, Sch. I
51       2-7-1990    34.03,
                     34.99
42A      3-7-1990    90.02,
                     90.99
                     50.20 -
52       7-10-1990   50.27,
                     50.99
54       2-6-1991    Ch. 71, Sch. I
55       2-6-1991    36.02
61       5-13-1992   Ch. 71, Sch. I
64       10-7-1992   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     50.04,
36A      12-2-1992   50.05,
                     50.99
67       7-7-1993    Ch. 71, Sch. I
68       11-2-1994   Ch. 71, Sch. I
37A      12-7-1994   30.01
69       2-1-1995    30.15 -
                     30.23
69A      11-1-1995   30.18
37B      12-27-1995  30.01
73       9-4-1997    91.01,
                     91.99
74       2-5-1998    Ch. 72, Sch. I
75       3-5-1998    36.03
                     52.01 -
76       3-19-1998   52.04,
                     52.99
78       7-2-1998    91.02
79       7-1-1999    54.01,
                     54.99
80       11-18-1999  Ch. 72, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 72, Sch. III
                     30.15,
                     30.17,
69B      4-6-2000    30.19,
                     30.20,
                     30.22
82       9-7-2000    Ch. 72, Sch. II
36B      10-5-2000   50.04
52A      10-5-2000   50.25
84       11-16-2000  Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     151.001-
                     151.005,
                     151.020 -
                     151.028,
                     151.030 -
                     151.032,
                     151.045 -
                     151.047,
43C      11-1-2001   151.060 -
                     151.065,
                     151.080 -
                     151.083,
                     151.095,
                     151.110,
                     151.111,
                     151.125,
                     151.126,
                     151.999
                     113.01 -
18A      11-15-2001  113.04,
                     113.99
89       9-19-2002   Ch. 71, Sch. II
91       2-20-2003   Ch. 71, Sch. I
94       8-21-2003   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     92.35 -
97       6-17-2004   92.43,
                     92.99,
                     Ch. 92 App. A
98       7-1-2004    150.01 -
                     150.05
99       10-7-2004   70.01,
                     70.99
100      10-21-2004  Ch. 71, Sch. II
102      12-30-2004  Ch. 71, Sch. II
106      3-3-2005    152.01
104      10-20-2005  31.01 -
                     31.08
107      5-18-2006   92.42
108      12-7-2006   35.045 -
                     35.047
109      12-7-2006   35.081
115      5-17-2007   53.01 -
                     53.10
118      12-27-2007  150.15 -
                     150.27
122      4-16-2009   150.04
123      5-21-2009   36.02
                     155.001 -
                     155.006,
                     155.020 -
                     155.035,
                     155.050,
                     155.051,
                     155.065 -
                     155.075,
                     155.090 -
126      3-18-2010   155.099,
                     155.110 -
                     155.124,
                     155.135 -
                     155.146,
                     155.160 -
                     155.164,
                     155.999,
                     Ch. 155, App. A,
                     Ch. 155, App. B
                     154.001 -
                     154.019,
                     154.030,
                     154.031,
                     154.045 -
                     154.047,
                     154.060 -
                     154.062,
                     154.075 -
                     154.078,
                     154.090 -
                     154.093,
127      3-18-2010   154.105 -
                     154.110,
                     154.125 -
                     154.131,
                     154.145 -
                     154.147,
                     154.160 -
                     154.179,
                     154.190 -
                     154.193,
                     154.999,
                     Ch. 154, App. A,
                     Ch. 154, App. B
128      3-18-2010   Ch. 156
129      12-29-2010  152.15
                     35.001 -
131      8-18-2011   35.007,
                     35.999
132      11-3-2011   36.02
106A     2-7-2013    152.01
                     155.029,
                     155.051,
                     155.068-
                     155.070,
126A     2-7-2013    155.075,
                     155.090,
                     155.093,
                     155.161 -
                     155.163,
                     155.999
133      2-7-2013    152.30
                     91.02 -
135      3-7-2013    91.04,
                     91.99
136      6-6-2013    50.40,
                     50.99
137      9-4-2014    31.21
                     155.051,
140      5-7-2015    155.065,
                     155.068,
                     155.069
141      5-7-2015    154.166
                     92.15 -
142      10-15-2015  92.21,
                     92.99
                     92.01 -
143      11-19-2015  92.04,
                     92.99
144      3-3-2016    32.16
145      6-2-2016    Ch. 71, Sch. I
148      9-15-2016   35.081
149      12-29-2016  35.008
150      12-29-2016  91.05,
                     91.99
151      4-20-2017   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     155.051,
153      8-17-2017   155.068,
                     155.074
154      8-17-2017   55.01
155      9-17-2017   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
                     155.051,
                     155.065,
157      9-6-2018    155.067 -
                     155.069,
                     155.076,
                     Ch. 155, App. B
                     35.020 -
158      12-6-2018   35.034,
                     35.999
160      1-17-2019   Adopting Ordinance
                     155.051,
                     155.068,
161      4-18-2019   155.073,
                     155.112,
                     155.124
165      5-7-2020    32.16
166      5-7-2020    92.42
167      11-17-2022  91.07,
                     91.99
                     155.051,
                     155.065,
168      8-18-2022   155.068,
                     155.069,
                     155.077
169      1-19-2023   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     155.051,
                     155.068,
170      - -2023     155.073 -
                     155.075,
                     155.099,
                     155.137
171      8-3-2023    91.08,
                     91.99
172      3-7-2024    Ch. 71, Sch. II
                    
 
