Code of Ordinances
of the
Township of West Wheatfield
Indiana County, Pennsylvania
Published by Authority of the Township
 
Adopted by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008
 
Code revised and supplemented through April 12, 2021, by:
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
The Township of West Wheatfield Code of Ordinances was adopted by the Township
of West Wheatfield by Ord. 02-08 and published by Keystate Publishers, Inc., on
September 8, 2008. It has been subsequently revised and supplemented as
follows:
Supplement I; July 13, 2009
Supplement II; March 8, 2010
Supplement III; July 12, 2010
Supplement IV; February 13, 2012
Supplement V; February 11, 2013
Supplement VI; September 9, 2013
Supplement VII; February 10, 2014
Supplement VIII; February 9, 2015
Supplement IX; November 9, 2015
Code revised and supplemented by American Legal Publishing through:
2016 S-1:   August 31, 2016
2017 S-2:   February 13, 2017
2018 S-3:   February 12, 2018
2018 S-4:   August 13, 2018
2021 S-5:   April 12, 2021
Officials of the
Township of West Wheatfield
County of Indiana, Pennsylvania
ELECTED OFFICIALS
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Chairman               Harry D. Lichtenfels
                      Shawn M. Baird
                      Joseph Shetler
Tax Collector          Debbie Boring
Auditors               Suzanne F. Stiffey
                      Alice J. Boring
                      Margaret E. Lichtenfels
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Secretary              Jean Yarnal
Treasurer              Jean Yarnal
Building Code Official Nicholas Rado
Solicitor              Timothy E. Burns
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 02-08
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE TOWNSHIP OF WEST
WHEATFIELD, INDIANA COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA; CONSOLIDAT ING, REVISING, AMENDING
AND REPEALING CERTAIN ORDINANCES; ENACTING CERTAIN NEW PROVISIONS; PROVIDING A
PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING THE CODE AND FOR THE CITATION OF THE CODE AND THE
EFFECTIVE DATE THEREOF; ESTABLISHING RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTE NANCE OF THE
CODE; SAVING CERTAIN PROVISIONS FROM REPEAL; AND PRESCRIBING PENALTIES FOR
VIOLATION.
The Township of West Wheatfield hereby ordains:
Section 1. Adoption. The "Code of Ordinances, Township of West Wheatfield," as
prepared and published for the said Township of West Wheatfield, is hereby
adopted as a consolidation, codification and revision of the ordinances of the
Township of West Wheatfield. Chapters 1 through 26 thereof contain the text of
the body of all general administrative and regulatory ordinances of the
Township of West Wheatfield organized as follows:
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1         Administration and Government
Chapter 2         [Reserved]
Chapter 3         [Reserved]
Chapter 4         Buildings
Chapter 5         Code Enforcement
Chapter 6         Conduct
Chapter 7         [Reserved]
Chapter 8         [Reserved]
Chapter 9         [Reserved]
Chapter 10         Health and Safety
Chapter 11         [Reserved]
Chapter 12         [Reserved]
Chapter 13         [Reserved]
Chapter 14         [Reserved]
Chapter 15         Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Chapter 16         [Reserved]
Chapter 17         [Reserved]
Chapter 18         Sewers and Sewage Disposal
Chapter 19         [Reserved]
Chapter 20         Solid Waste
Chapter 21         Streets and Sidewalks
Chapter 22         [Reserved]
Chapter 23         [Reserved]
Chapter 24         Taxation; Special
Chapter 25         [Reserved]
Chapter 26         Water
   APPENDIX:
A.         Adjustments to Boundaries
B         Bond Issues and Loans
C         Franchises and Services
D         Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
E         Plan Approval
F         Public Property
G         Sewers
H         Streets and Sidewalks
I         Water
Table to the Disposition of All Ordinances
Table to the Disposition of Significant Resolutions
The Appendix of the volume lists, by subject matter, in chronological order,
the titles (or an abstract of title) of enactments of special nature or of
historical interest, for the complete text of which the official records of the
Township of West Wheatfield shall be authoritative.
Section 2. Citation and Effective Date. The codification referred to in Section
1 of this ordinance shall be known and cited officially as the "Township of
West Wheatfield Code of Ordinances," and all future ordinances shall make
reference thereto. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication of notice of final enactment as required by law.
Section 3. Saving Clause. The provisions of the Township of West Wheatfield
Code of Ordinances, so far as they are the same as those ordinances and
regulations in force immediately prior to the adoption of said Code, are
intended as a continuation of such ordinances and regulations and not as a new
enactment. The provisions of the Township of West Wheatfield Code of Ordinances
shall not affect any suit or prosecution pending or to be instituted to enforce
any of the prior ordinances or regulations.
Section 4. Consolidation and Revision. As a necessary part of codification, the
following provisions are hereby consolidated and revised as indicated:
A.   Consolidations.
 
Section            Subject                    Ordinance No., Section
15, Entire Chapter Motor Vehicles and Traffic 1, O-85-1, O-86-1, 6/8/1987, 01-
                                              04
 
B.   Revisions.
 
Section Subject Ordinance No., Section
   [Reserved]
 
Section 5. New Enactments, Amendments and Repeals. As a necessary part of
codification, the following ordinances are hereby enacted, amended and repealed
as summarized by short title:
A.   New Enactments.
 
Section            Subject
15, Entire Chapter Motor Vehicles and Traffic
 
B.   Amendments.
Section Subject Ordinance No., Section
Section  Subject                                 Ordinance No., Section
§ 1-202 Fees                                    Res. 2/10/2003
§ 1-204 Appeals Process                         Res. 2/10/2003
§ 1-301 Tax Collector Fees                      04-04
§ 4-112 Issuance of Building Permits            O-01-3-90, § 2.01
§ 4-113 Application Procedures and Requirements O-01-3-90, § 2.02; 01-08, § 1
§ 4-120 Fees                                    O-01-3-90, § 2.09
§ 4-121 Enforcement                             O-01-3-90, § 2.10
§ 4-141 General                                 O-01-3-90, § 4.00
§ 4-142 Special Requirements for FW, FE, and FA O-01-3-90, § 4.01
         Areas
§ 4-145 Design Which May Endanger Human Life    O-01-3-90, § 4.04
§ 4-151 Activities Requiring Special Permits    O-01-3-90, § 5.00
§ 4-202 Posting of Addresses                    O-02-95
§ 4-309 Penalties                               2-2005, § 9
§ 6-102 Penalties                               O-68-3
§ 6-205 Penalties                               O-84-4, § 5
§ 10-104Penalties                               O-68-2, § 4
§ 18-105Enforcement                             O-84-3, § 5
§ 18-201Use and Maintenance                     Res. 01-02-91
§ 18-302Definitions                             O-84-7, § 2
§ 18-303Procedure                               O-84-7, § 3
§ 18-304Standards                               O-84-7, § 4
§ 18-402Agreement Provisions                    O-75-1, § 2
§ 18-403Violations and Penalties                O-75-1, § 4
§ 20-102Definitions                             O-02-05-92, § 2
§ 20-108Penalties                               O-02-05-92, § 8
§ 21-101Regulations                             O-74-1, § 1
§ 21-204Penalties                               O-74-2, § 4
§ 24-101Definitions                             Res. R-2-66, § 1
§ 24-102General Provisions                      Res. R-2-66, § 2
§ 24-105Filing of Estimated Return              Res. R-2-66, § 5
§ 24-108Confidentiality and Exceptions          Res. R-2-66, § 8
§ 24-111Violations and Penalties                Res. R-2-66, § 11
§ 24-302Exemption                               O-77-1, § 2
§ 24-412Fines and Penalties for Violation of    01-07, § 1
         this Part
§ 24-503Levy                                    O-81-1, § 3
§ 26-107Penalties                               03-04, § 7
 
C.   Repeals.
 
Ord./Res. Subject
   [Reserved]
 
Section 6. Adoption of Standard Codes by Reference. As a necessary part of
codification, the following ordinances are hereby enacted by reference as
standard codes summarized by short title:
 
Section Short Title
   [Reserved]
 
Section 7. Land Use Amendments. The Township of West Wheatfield Code of
Ordinances is hereby amended as is more fully shown in the complete text of
Chapter 27 thereof which is attached hereto and made part hereof by reference
hereto as if fully set out at length herein, with deletions shown by strike-
through and additions shown by underline, all of which is briefly summarized
hereinafter.
   A.   New Provisions. The following provisions are new provisions which are
being added to the Code, are underlined throughout the text, and are summarized
as follows:
 
Section Subject
   [Reserved]
 
   B.   Revised Provisions. The following provisions of the Code are revised,
the text of which indicates deletions by strike-through and additions shown by
underline, and are summarized as follows:
 
Section Subject Ordinance No., Section
   [Reserved]
   C.   Repealed Provisions. The following provisions of the Code are repealed,
the text of which indicates deletions by strike-through, and are as follows:
 
Section Subject Ordinance No., Section
   [Reserved]
 
Section 8. Procedural Changes.  The following minor procedural changes have
been made to existing Township of West Wheatfield ordinances:
A.   Grammatical and spelling errors have been corrected where necessary;
B.   Minor changes have been made to correct obsolete terms and usages;
C.   The penalty provisions have been revised where necessary to comply with
the Pennsylvania Township Code, Vehicle Code, Municipalities Planning Code and
the Local Tax Enabling Act.
Section 9. Amending the Code of Ordinances. The procedure for amending the Code
of Ordinances shall include the citation of the Chapter, Part, Section and
subsection to be amended, revised, repealed or added as follows:
A.   Amendment or Revision -  "Chapter ___, Part ___, Section ___, Subsection
___ is hereby amended [revised] to read as follows..."
B.   Additions -  "Chapter ___, Part ___, Section ___, Subsection ___ is hereby
amended by the addition of the following..."
C.   Repeal -  "Chapter ___, Part ___, Section ___, Subsection ___ is hereby
repealed in its entirety."
Section 10. Responsibility for Code of Ordinances.  It shall be the
responsibility of the Township of West Wheatfield Secretary to maintain an up-
to-date certified copy of the Code of Ordinances. This copy shall be the
official copy of the Township of West Wheatfield Code of Ordinances and shall
be available for public inspection.
Section 11. Penalties. It shall be unlawful for anyone to change, alter or
tamper with the Code of Ordinances in any manner which will intentionally
misrepresent the laws of the Township. Whosoever shall violate this Section
shall be guilty of an offense under § 4911, "Tampering with Public Records or
Information,” of the Crimes Code, 18 Pa.C.S.A. § 4911, and shall be prosecuted
under that Section of the law.
Section 12. Severability of Parts of Codification. It is hereby declared to be
the intention of the Township of West Wheatfield that the Chapters, Parts,
Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this codification are
severable. If any Section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code
is declared unconstitutional, illegal or otherwise invalid by the judgment or
decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect
any of the remaining Chapters, Parts, Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases of this codification.
ENACTED AND ORDAINED this 8 day of September, 2008.
ATTEST:                        Township of West Wheatfield
/s/ Jean Yarnal                                     /s/ Donald R. Shelter     
                           
Secretary                        Chairman
______________________________________
Vice Chairman
/s/ Joe Shelter_________________________
                              Supervisor
Fee Resolution
A resolution establishing fees for the filing of applications, permits and
licenses for the Township of West Wheatfield.
WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the Township of West Wheatfield has
adopted a codification, consolidation and revision of the ordinances of the
Township of West Wheatfield; and,
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Supervisors of the Township of West
Wheatfield to eliminate all filing fees, permit fees and license fees from the
Code of Ordinances and enact them instead by resolution; and,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT and it is hereby resolved by the Board of
Supervisors of the Township of West Wheatfield that all fees are hereby fixed
as follows:
Subject Fees
Subject                                                    Fees
BUILDINGS   §
4-120
   Building permit                                      $2
OPEN RECORDS POLICY   §
1-202
   Paper copies per page per side                       $0.10
   Disk                                                 $1 per disk
   Fax copies                                           $0.50 per page
   True and Correct Certification                       $2 additional charge
   Prepayment total fees                                $100 (estimated not
                                                           to exceed)
SEWAGE SLUDGE   §
18-303
   Application                                          $500
TAX COLLECTOR   §
1-301
   Certification for real estate application            $10
   Duplicate tax bills requested                        $10
   Handling fee for checks returned due to insufficient $10
funds
 
(Res. R-03-08)
Chapter 1
Administration and Government
Part 1
Board of Supervisors
A.   Compensation
   §
1-101.   Compensation
Part 2
Open Records Policy
   §
1-201.   Requests
   §
1-202.   Fees
   §
1-203.   Response
   §
1-204.   Appeals Process
Part 3
Tax Collector
   §
1-301.   Tax Collector Fees
Part 4
Personnel Policies
   §
1-401.   Purpose
   §
1-402.   Employment Policy
   §
1-403.   Conditions of Employment and Benefits
   §
1-404.   Travel and Maintenance Allowance
   §
1-405.   Grievance Procedures
   §
1-406.   Disciplinary Action
   §
1-407.   Serious Misbehavior
   §
1-408.   Personnel Policy Administration
Part 5
Volunteer Fire Company
   §
1-501.   Reimbursement for Costs of Materials and Services Rendered
Part 1
Board of Supervisors
A.   Compensation
§ 1-101.   Compensation.
   1.   Each Supervisor of West Wheatfield Township elected or appointed to
office on or after November 5, 1985, shall receive compensation for attending
duly advertised general or special public meetings of the Board of Supervisors
at the rate of $25 for each meeting attended by such Supervisor.
   2.   No Supervisor shall receive annual compensation under this Part in
excess of the annual statutory limit set by the General Assembly in Act 68 for
supervisors of townships within the appropriate population category.
   3.   No supervisor shall be compensated for attending any meetings of the
Board of Supervisors in excess of 25 meetings per year; such absences of
compensation shall not negate or anyway affect such supervisor’s duty or
obligation to attend such uncompensated meetings.
   4.   Such compensation shall be paid in quarterly installments.
(Ord. O-85-4, 12/30/1985)
Part 2
Open Records Policy
§ 1-201.   Requests.
   1.   Public records will be available for inspection and copying at the
Township Municipal Office during normal business hours, Monday through Friday,
8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with the exception of holidays.
   2.   Requests shall be in writing and directed to the Township Secretary at
the Township Municipal Office, 6120 Rt. 22 Hwy. E., New Florence, PA 15944-
6821. Written requests shall be on a form provided by the Township and shall
include the date of the request, the name and address of the requester, and a
clear description of the records sought.
(Res. 2/10/2003, 2/10/2003)
§ 1-202.   Fees.
   Fees for paper copies, mailing, computer disk(s), fax copies, certification
as true and correct copies and such other services as may be determined from
time to time by the Board of Supervisors shall be in such amounts and paid in
such manner as may be established from time to time by resolution of the Board
of Supervisors. The Township shall require prepayment if the total fees are
estimated to exceed $100.
(Res. 2/10/2003, 2/10/2003; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 1-203.   Response.
   1.   The Township will make a good faith effort to provide the requested
public records as promptly as feasible. Township employees shall cooperate with
those requesting to review and/or duplicate original Township documents while
taking reasonable measures to protect Township documents from the possibility
of theft and/or modification.
   2.   The Township Secretary shall review all written requests for access to
public records. As soon as possible, but no later than 5 business days after
receiving a written request to access public records, the Township Secretary
shall respond to all such requests in a manner consistent with Act 100 of 2002,
the Open Records Law, 65 P.S. § 66.1 etseq.
(Res. 2/10/2003, 2/10/2003)
§ 1-204.   Appeals Process.
   1.   If a written request is denied or deemed denied, the requester may file
exceptions with the Board of Supervisors within 15 business days of the mailing
date of the Township's denial. The exceptions shall state grounds on which the
requestor asserts that the record is a public record and shall address any
grounds stated by the Township for denying the request.
   2.   The Board of Supervisors shall make a “final determination” on the
exceptions within 30 days of the mailing date of the exceptions. The Board of
Supervisors may hold a hearing on the issue during the 30 days. If the Board
determines that the denial was correct, it must provide a written explanation
to the requester.
   3.   The requester may appeal a final determination to the Common Pleas
Court or magisterial district judge within 30 days of denial or final
determination. [Ord. 02- 08]
(Res. 2/10/2003, 2/10/2003; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 3
Tax Collector
§ 1-301.   Tax Collector Fees.
   1.   Applicants requesting certification for real estate sales shall be
assessed a fee in an amount as established from time to time by resolution of
the Board of Supervisors.
   2.   Applicants requesting duplicate tax bills shall be assessed a fee in an
amount as established from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
   3.   Checks returned to the Tax Collector due to insufficient funds shall be
assessed a handling fee in an amount as established from time to time by
resolution of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 04-04, 6/14/2004; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 4
Personnel Policies
§ 1-401.   Purpose.
   1.   This personnel policy is established to provide for the fair and
consistent treatment of Township employees in order to encourage a responsible,
competent and efficient work force.
   2.   The rules and procedures included in this policy are intended to
provide employees with information on which they can rely in dealing with
matters which affect their work related conduct, responsibilities, rights and
benefits. This policy does not constitute a contract with any employee or group
of employees. The Board of Supervisors may authorize exceptions, additions or
changes to this policy when necessary to meet the intent of fair treatment of
employees and reasonable and efficient service to residents of the Township.
   3.   The Board of Supervisors will be responsible for the administration of
this policy and for assuring that all employees are aware of it. The Chairman
of the Board of Supervisors shall insure that these policies are followed.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § I)
§ 1-402.   Employment Policy.
   1.   Non-Discrimination. In the administration of this policy the Township
does not discriminate against any person in recruitment, selection for
employment, training, promotion, retention, discipline, benefits, conditions of
work or any other aspect of personnel administration because of race, age, sex,
religious beliefs or political positions. In addition, the Township does not
discriminate because of physical ability unless physical abilities constitute
genuine job requirements.
   2.   Safety. The Township requires all employees to consider safety as the
highest priority in any task they perform. As a minimum, all employees are
required to follow the following rules regardless of job:
      A.   Use any and all safety equipment provided and follow all
manufacturer's instructions in operating any equipment.
      B.   Wear adequate protective clothing for the job to be performed.
      C.   Do not operate equipment on which they have not been trained or do
not feel confident in operating.
      D.   Warn co-workers or anyone who might be in danger of any unsafe
conditions or practices observed.
      E.   Report defective equipment to Supervisors without delay.
      F.   Report unsafe conditions observed anywhere in the Township
regardless of whether or not the condition is employee's responsibility.
      G.   Report all injuries and accidents, regardless of severity.
      H.   Some safety equipment provided to employees by the Township such as
hard hats and safety glasses, will be issued for individual use only and the
care of such equipment will be the responsibility of the employee. Equipment
lost by other than normal wear and test shall be replaced by the employee
through payroll deduction.
   3.   Substance Abuse. All employees shall adhere to the Township’s Drug and
Abuse Policy now in effect.
   4.   Sexual Harassment. The Township prohibits sexual harassment of
employees. Sexual harassment shall mean any unwelcome of offensive flirtation,
advances, propositions or suggestions whether physical or verbal, explicit or
implied. Any employee who feels he or she is the victim of such conduct shall
let the offender know in definite terms that the conduct is offensive. If said
conduct persists, or if the employee feels he or she is being penalized for
refusing to submit to such conduct, or if the conduct is intimidating in nature
so that the employee feels afraid to protest directly, the employee shall file
a complaint directly in writing with the Board of Supervisors. Employees who
persist in acts of sexual harassment will be subject to disciplinary action as
described elsewhere in this policy.
   5.   Smoking. Smoking is prohibited for both employees and the general
public in the following areas:
      A.   Any Township office.
      B.   Any Township vehicle or equipment when shared with another employee,
except with the consent of the other employee.
      C.   Any area where smoking is prohibited for safety reasons.
      D.   Employees who observe anyone failing to comply with this policy
shall inform the party of the policy politely. If the policy violation
persists, the Board of Supervisors shall be notified. Employees who refuse to
comply with the smoking policy may face disciplinary action as described
elsewhere in this policy.
   6.   Political Activity. Employees shall not participate in any political
activity during the hours when they are on duty at their Township positions.
Supervisors shall not use the authority of their positions to influence any
other person’s political actions. Nothing herein contained shall affect the
right of employees to hold membership in and support a political party, to vote
as they choose, to express publicly or privately their opinions on all
political subjects and candidates, to maintain political neutrality and to
actively participate in political meetings as private citizens after work hours
and off Township premises.
   7.   Outside Employment. Employees shall not engage in outside employment
which might in any way hinder the impartial performance of their public duties,
embarrass the Township government, impair their efficiency or present a
potential conflict of interest. Outside work shall not be performed during
hours when an employee is on duty at their Township position.
   8.   Acceptance of Gifts. Employees shall not accept gifts given under
circumstances indicating the hope of expectation of receiving favor or better
treatment than that accorded the public generally.
   9.   Financial Interest. No employee shall have an economic interest in any
business supplying goods or services to the Township, unless such goods and
services have been procured by the Township through a public competitive quote
of bid process.
   10.   Nepotism and Employment of Relatives. The employment of members of the
same immediate family shall be avoided where one will be supervising the other.
   11.   Work Environment. All employees shall be entitled to a work place free
from verbal or physical abuse. In the event that an employee feels that he or
she has been verbally or physically abused, said employee shall file a written
complaint to the Board of Supervisors. Any employee found to be responsible for
creating a verbally or physically an abusive environment shall be disciplined
as described elsewhere in this policy.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § II)
§ 1-403.   Conditions of Employment and Benefits.
   1.   Classification. All employees shall be classified into one of the
following categories:
      A.   Full Time. Those employees who are normally scheduled to work 2,000
hours or more per year.
      B.   Part Time. Those employees who are normally scheduled to work less
than 2,000 hours per year,
      C.   Appointed salaried personnel.
   2.   Probationary Period. All newly hired employees will be hired on a 90-
day probationary period during which time no Township benefits, including time
off, will be available. Rate of pay during probationary will be the same as a
part time employee. When hired full time will receive the same pay as all full
time laborer-operators. No vacation or sick leave in the first year. Second
year earns 3 days vacation and sick leave. Third year earns 6 days vacation and
sick leave. Fourth year earns 9 days vacation and sick leave. Fifth year earns
the same as all hourly full time employees.
   3.   Work Week. The work week shall mean 5 working days, except when changed
by the Board of Supervisors. The regular work week shall be 40 hours.
   4.   Work Hours. Employees shall be paid based on a regular work week of 40
hours, 8 hours per day. Each work day shall be interrupted by a ½ hour lunch
period, which shall be included in the paid time. Adjustments to work hours may
be made from time to time by the Board of Supervisors or Foreman.
   5.   Overtime.
      A.   Employees are not to perform work beyond their regular scheduled
work hours without approval of the employees’ immediate Supervisor, unless such
work is required by an emergency situation. All overtime must be authorized or
otherwise approved by a Supervisor. All employees shall be paid time and a half
for all hours worked over 40 hours per week. Hours worked does not include
vacation or sick leave pay. Only hours worked and holiday hours.
      B.   Minimum call-out compensation will be 2 hours, even if actual time
worked is less.
      C.   No employee shall be permitted to work beyond regularly scheduled
stopping time to make up for tardiness unless approved by a Supervisor.
   6.   On the Job Conduct. Employees are expected to work diligently while on
duty, to show respect and concern for the public, to abide by established work
rules and not to take any action which would subject the Township to ridicule
or embarrassment. Employees are expected to perform all duties assigned by
their Supervisor or Foreman, except where there is reason for cause to believe
that such assignments are in violation of the law or those assignments would
place the employee or others in avoidable physical danger.
   7.   Work Rules. Supervisors may establish work rules, operating procedures
and standards of conduct as are necessary for day to day operations.
   8.   Licenses. If operating a motor vehicle is part of an employee’s job,
the maintenance of a valid CDL Pennsylvania operator’s license shall be a
necessary condition of employment. Operating any vehicle without the required
license shall be considered willful abuse of Township equipment.
   9.   Vacation Leave. The number of vacation days allowed shall be
established by the Board of Supervisors at the annual organization meeting.
Vacation day scheduling shall be approved by the Board of Supervisors. Vacation
requests will on first come first serve basis. Accrued vacation and sick leave
time shall be established by the Board of Supervisors at the annual
organization meeting.
   10.   Holidays. Paid holidays shall be established each year at the Township
organization meeting. If a paid holiday shall fall on a weekend or a pre-
scheduled non- work day, then the paid day off shall be the last regularly
scheduled work day before the holiday. Time and a half shall be paid for
authorized work on holidays in addition to regular holiday pay.
   11.   Leave of Absence. If an employee desires a leave of absence, he or she
shall submit a written request explaining the nature and duration of the
requested leave. He or she shall receive a written response from the Board of
Supervisors within 5 working days outlining the terms granted, if any. If
employment is terminated, unused vacation time will be paid.
   12.   Bereavement Time. An employee shall be eligible for payment at his or
her hourly rate for time lost from work due to death in his or her family in
accordance with the following schedule:
      A.   Spouse, child, parent or stepchild (in employee’s custody) up to 3
consecutive days.
      B.   Brother, sister, parent of spouse, stepchild, daughter-in-law or
son-in-law, 1 day.
   13.   Fire Calls. Employees who are active members of the Clyde and Bolivar
Volunteer Fire Companies are permitted to respond to fire calls, as long as
there is no undue interruption of the immediate task or job being performed.
Employees responding to a fire call will be paid for the normally scheduled
hours while serving in the emergency capacity.
   14.   Jury Duty. An employee who shall be called to jury duty and shall
serve at jury duty shall be compensated in the amount of the regular pay for
the duration of said duty.
   15.   Military Leave. An employee called to active service in the Armed
Forces of the United States shall be granted leave without pay for the period
of said service, provided the employee returns to work within 90 days from the
date of honorable discharge.
   16.   Benefits. All full time employees will be eligible for inclusion in a
standard benefit package as determined by the Board of Supervisors.
   17.   Retirement. Full time employees shall become a part of the West
Wheatfield Township Nonuniform Employees Pension Plan as described in Ord. O-1-
98  and amended in Ord. 01-09.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § III)
§ 1-404.   Travel and Maintenance Allowance.
   Travel.
      A.   No employee of West Wheatfield Township shall drive his private
automobile for purposes of conducting Township business, directly or
indirectly, unless approved by the majority of the Board of Supervisors.
      B.   Reimbursement for the use of privately owned automobiles for
purposes of Township business will be at a rate established at the annual
organization meeting.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § IV)
§ 1-405.   Grievance Procedures.
   It is the intent of the Township to settle any employee grievance fairly,
quickly and at the lowest possible level. Employee grievances shall be handled
in the following manner:
      A.   An employee with a grievance shall express his concerns to an
immediate Supervisor, as soon as possible after the conditions or event giving
rise to the grievances are known.
      B.   If the employee is not satisfied with the results of his verbal
grievance, then he or she shall file a written grievance with the Board of
Supervisors.
      C.   If the employee is not satisfied with the results of his or her
written grievance, then he or she may request a special hearing on the
grievance at which time the entire Board of Supervisors will be present. The
Board shall schedule hearing and deliberation no later than 7 days after the
written request is received and shall present a written response to the
employee no later than 7 days after the hearing.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § V)
§ 1-406.   Disciplinary Action.
   1.   Classification. Any employee who is found to be in violation of any of
the rules, regulations, direction or orders of the Township may be subject to
disciplinary action. Violations will classified, depending on the specific
circumstances of the acts or omissions, as one or more of the following
categories:
      A.   Violation of an official duty.
      B.   Inefficiency.
      C.   Neglect.
      D.   Insubordination.
      E.   Disobedience of orders.
      F.   Conduct unbecoming an employee.
      G.   Repetitive tardiness.
   2.   Procedures. Progressive disciplinary action shall follow this sequence,
except in the most extreme cases when immediate dismissal or suspension may be
warranted.
      A.   Oral reprimand.
      B.   Written reprimand.
      C.   Suspension without pay.
      D.   Dismissal.
   3.   Just Cause. In all cases, disciplinary actions shall be administered by
a majority of the Board of Supervisors. The Township shall take no disciplinary
action against an employee without just cause. The following criteria shall be
used to determine whether or not just cause exists:
      A.   The employee shall have had prior knowledge or warning of the
possible consequences of the action for which discipline is being considered.
      B.   Work rules shall be reasonable related to the orderly, efficient and
safe operation of Township business, if violation of the rules is to be the
reason for disciplinary action.
      C.   The Township shall make reasonable effort to discover whether a rule
has been violated before taking disciplinary action.
      D.   The investigation of alleged rules infraction shall be carried out
in a fair and objective manner.
      E.   Disciplinary action shall not be taken without substantial proof
that the employee committed the infractions.
      F.   Disciplinary actions and penalties will be applied consistently and
fairly.
      G.   The degree of discipline imposed will be reasonably related to the
seriousness or the offense and the employee’s previous record.
   4.   Type of Discipline. It shall be the Township policy to administer the
least severe form of discipline deemed necessary to correct the improper
behavior. This means that a dismissal shall only be used in cases where there
is little likelihood that the employee will be willing or able to perform in a
satisfactory manner again, or where the employee’s actions have been so severe
that continued employment would cause a loss of confidence or breakdown of
Township government. Suspension shall be used in cases where withholding of pay
is necessary to impress upon the employee the seriousness of his actions. Prior
to dismissal or suspension the Board of Supervisors shall obtain the  legal
advice of the Township Solicitor.
   5.   Records. Records of disciplinary actions shall be kept in the
employee’s personnel file. The employee shall be provided with a copy of all
such records. Reprimands shall be removed from the file and destroyed after 2
years if there are no recurrences or similar incidents.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § VI)
§ 1-407.   Serious Misbehavior.
   1.   Theft. That is possession of Township property, without obtaining
permission from one’s immediate Supervisor. Supervisors shall obtain permission
from another Supervisor. After obtaining permission, the employee shall post
his name along with the borrowed property on the shop bulletin board.
   2.   Use of Township Equipment for Unauthorized Projects. Authorized
projects shall be any work within the Township road right-of-way, or any other
Township property. Work on private property shall only be authorized by
agreement of a majority of the Board of Supervisors.
   3.   Recklessness resulting in an accident.
   4.   Willful abuse of Township equipment.
   5.   Unprovoked assault of another person.
   6.   Gross negligence in the performance of an assigned task resulting in
injury to person or property.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § VII)
§ 1-408.   Personnel Policy Administration.
   1.   Responsibility. The Chairman shall bear the primary responsibility of
enforcement of the provisions and purposes of this personnel policy.
   2.   Availability. A copy of this personnel policy and all supplements
hereto shall be made available to each employee. This personnel policy shall be
read by the employee and his name shall be signed to an affidavit that he has
read and understood the provision of said policy. In addition, a copy of the
personnel policy shall be available at all times to all employees during the
full course of their employment.
   3.   Amendments. The Board of Supervisors may make changes in this personnel
policy as the need is required at any regular scheduled meeting of the Board of
Supervisors.
   4.   Intent. This personnel policy is a declaration of honest and present
intent on the part of West Wheatfield Township Supervisors but in no manner
constitutes a legal contract binding the Township. The Township reserves the
right to alter, amend and modify this personnel policy as circumstances, budget
limitations, price structure, necessary economics or other valid reasons will
warrant.
   5.   Savings Clause. In the event that any of the provisions hereinbefore
stated shall contravene or be at variance with State or Federal laws, statutes
or regulations, such provisions shall be considered null and void and the
appropriate status or regulation shall supersede and apply, in which event all
portions of this personnel policy shall remain in full force and effect.
(Res. 02-10, 3/8/2010, § VIII)
Part 5
Volunteer Fire Company
§ 1-501.   Reimbursement for Costs of Materials and Services Rendered.
   1.   Definitions. As used herein, the following terms shall have the
meanings indicated, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context:
      Fire company-the Clyde Volunteer Fire Company.
      Person-includes an individual, natural person, estate, trust, firm,
corporation, partnership, governmental entity, association or other legal
entity.
      Township-West Wheatfield Township, Indiana County, Pennsylvania
   2.   Authorization to Recover Costs and Expenses. West Wheatfield Township
authorizes the Fire Company to recover the costs of freighting materials used
and expended, the costs of use of the fire trusts, fire engines, rescue
equipment and tankers, the cost of personnel hours and hazardous situation
abatement materials involving any fire-safety and rescue incident or operation,
and hazardous abatement incident including vehicular accidents and fire within
the Township or any other area in which the Fire Company is authorized by the
Township or contracted with to provide such services.
    3.   Schedule of Fees, Costs and Expense. West Wheatfield Township Board of
Supervisors may by resolution, from time to time, establish, revise, amend or
rescind a schedule of fees that may be charged by the Fire Company.
   4.   Requirements to Pay for Costs, Fees and Expenses. A person shall be
liable for the costs, fees and expenses incurred by the Fire Company as
outlined in a Resolution of West Wheatfield Township Board of Supervisors
unless that person has:
      A.   Paid to the municipality where the Fire Company is located, a tax
which is funds at least in part the services for which the Fire Company
provides;
      B.   Paid to a municipality a tax which funds at least in part the
services of the Fire Company and which municipality has contracted with the
Fire Company to perform services for a fee paid by the municipality to the
Fire/Company; or
      C.   Paid dues or a monetary contribution to the Fire Company within the
preceding 12 months from the date that services were provided.
   5.   Collection of Costs and Fees. The costs and fee as outlined in a
Resolution of West Wheatfield Township Supervisors shall be recovered directly
by the Fire Company by direct billing of the Fire Company or by an attorney,
collection service or agency contracted with by the Fire Company. In addition
to the costs and fees as outlined in a Resolution of West Wheatfield Township
the Fire Company or any attorney or collection service or agency contracted
with the Fire Company shall be authorized to collect in addition to the costs
and fees reasonable interests and administration fees for collecting the costs
and fees.
   6.   Enforcement. In the event that any insurance carrier or person fails to
pay any bill or invoice within 30 days of the mailing or delivery of such
notice of charges, the Fire Company or any attorney or agency contracted with
by the Fire Company who mailed or delivered the bill or invoice may enforce the
provisions of this section by filing a civil action at law in a court of
competent jurisdiction for the collection of any amounts due to the Fire
Company together with statutory interests, court costs, collection fees and
reasonable attorney’s fees. The remedies provided herein shall be in addition
to any other relief; remedies or penalties that may be appropriate or provided
by law.
(Ord. 2-16, 9/12/2016)
Chapter 2
[Reserved]
Chapter 3
[Reserved]
Chapter 4
Buildings
Part 1
Building Permits and Floodplain Regulations
A.   General Provisions
   §
4-101.   Statutory Authorization
   §
4-102.   Intent
   §
4-103.   Applicability
   §
4-104.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
   §
4-105.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
   §
4-106.   Severability
B.   Administration
   §
4-111.   Building Permits Required
   §
4-112.   Issuance of Building Permits
   §
4-113.   Application Procedures and Requirements
   §
4-114.   Review by County Conservation District
   §
4-115.   Review of Application by Others
   §
4-116.   Changes
   §
4-117.   Placard
   §
4-118.   Start of Construction
   §
4-119.   Inspection and Revocation
   §
4-120.   Fees
   §
4-121.   Enforcement
   §
4-122.   Appeals
C.   Identification of Floodplain Zones
   §
4-131.   Identification
   §
4-132.   Description of Floodplain Areas
   §
4-133.   Changes in Identification of Area
   §
4-134.   Boundary Disputes
D.   Technical Provisions
   §
4-141.   General
   §
4-142.   Special Requirements for FW, FE, and FA Areas
   §
4-143.   Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements
   §
4-144.   Design and Construction Standards
   §
4-145.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life
   §
4-146.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
   §
4-147.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions
   §
4-148.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles
E.   Activities Requiring Special Permits
   §
4-151.   General
F.   Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
   §
4-161.   Existing Structures
   §
4-162.   Improvements
G.   Variances
   §
4-171.   General
   §
4-172.   Variance Procedures and Conditions
H.   Definitions
   §
4-181.   General
   §
4-182.   Specific Definitions
Part 2
Assignment of Street Addresses
   §
4-201.   Purpose
   §
4-202.   Posting of Addresses
   §
4-203.   Procedures
   §
4-204.   West Wheatfield Township Addressing System
   §
4-205.   Road Names
Part 3
Providing for the Vacating, Removal, Repair or Demolition
on Any Structures Dangerous to the Health, Morals, Safety or
General Welfare of the People
   §
4-301.   Short Title
   §
4-302.   Application
   §
4-303.   Definitions and Word Usage
   §
4-304.   Dangerous Buildings as Nuisances
   §
4-305.   Investigation Procedure
   §
4-306.   Hearing Procedure
   §
4-307.   Standards for Repair, Vacation or Demolition
   §
4-308.   Enforcement Procedures
   §
4-309.   Penalties
   §
4-310.   Emergency Cases
Part 1
Building Permits and Floodplain Regulations
A.   General Provisions
§ 4-101.   Statutory Authorization.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has, by the passage of
the Pennsylvania Flood Plain Management Act of 1978, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations to promote public health, safety, and the general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Supervisors of the Township of West
Wheatfield, does hereby order as follows.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-102.   Intent.
   The intent of this Part is to:
      A.   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community.
      B.   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future.
      C.   Minimize danger to public health by protecting water supply and
natural drainage.
      D.   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents by preventing excessive development in areas subject
to flooding.
      E.   Comply with Federal and State floodplain management requirements.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-103.   Applicability.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business, or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any construction or
development anywhere within the Township of West Wheatfield unless a building
permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
   2.   A building permit shall not be required for minor repairs to existing
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-104.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
   This Part supersedes any other conflicting provision which may be in effect
in identified floodplain areas. However, any other ordinance provisions shall
remain in full force and effect to the extent that those provisions are more
restrictive. If there is any conflict between any of the provisions of this
Part, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-105.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   1.   The degree of flood protection sought by the provisions of this Part is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on acceptable
engineering methods of study. Larger floods may occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man- made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This Part does not imply that areas outside any
identified floodplain area, or that land uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages.
   2.   This Part shall not create liability on the part of the Township of
West Wheatfield or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this Part or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-106.   Severability.
   If any Section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
Part shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such a decision shall
not affect the remaining portions of the Part, which shall remain in full force
and effect, and for this purpose the provisions of this Part are hereby
declared to be severable.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
B.   Administration
   The Building Permit Officer within the office is hereby appointed to
administer and enforce this Part and is referred to herein as the “Floodplain
Administrator.”
§ 4-111.   Building Permits Required.
   Building permits shall be required before any construction or development is
undertaken within any area of the Township of West Wheatfield.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-112.   Issuance of Building Permits.
   1.   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a building permit only after
it has been determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in
conformance with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes and
ordinances.
   2.   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application for permit to determine if all other
necessary governmental permits required by State and Federal laws have been
obtained, such as those required by the Pennsylvania Sewage Facilities Act (Act
1966-537, as amended); the Pennsylvania Dam Safety and Encroachments Act (Act
1978-325, as amended); the Pennsylvania Clean Streams Act (Act 1937-394, as
amended); the U.S. Clean Water Act, § 404, 33 U.S.C. § 1344. No permit shall be
issued until this determination has been made.
   3.   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by
such action have been notified by the Township of West Wheatfield, and until
all required permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Department
of Environmental Protection. In addition, the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development shall
be notified by the Township of West Wheatfield prior to any alteration or
relocation of any watercourse.
   4.   Issuance of Exemption Certificate. The Floodplain Administrator shall
promptly issue an exemption certificate when it has been determined that the
proposed construction is not within the flood hazard area. In areas outside the
flood hazard area no regulations shall apply and no inspection shall be
required at anytime in the future.
   5.   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse unless it can be shown that the activity will not reduce or
impede the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse in any way.
   6.   Technical or scientific data shall be submitted to FEMA for a Letter of
Map Revision (LOMR) within 6 months of the completion of any new construction,
development, or other activity resulting in changes in the BFE.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-113.   Application Procedures and Requirements.
   1.   Application for such a building permit shall be made, in writing, to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms supplied by the Township of West
Wheatfield. Such application shall contain the following:
      A.   Name and address of applicant.
      B.   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is
to occur.
      C.   Name and address of contractor.
      D.   Site location.
      E.   Listing of other permits required.
      F.   Brief description of proposed work and estimated cost.
      G.   A plan of the site showing the exact size and location of the
proposed construction as well as any existing buildings or structures.
         (1)   Setbacks. There shall be a minimum building setback line of 15
feet from the right of way boundary line of any street, road or alley which is
part of the West Wheatfield Township road system. There shall be a minimum
building setback line of 5 feet from all other property lines. The setback line
shall also apply to any structure or man-made improvement including, but not
limited to, fences, driveways, signs, towers, decks, animal quarters, and
retaining walls. The permit application shall contain a plan of the site with a
scale of 1 inch = 100 or less feet and showing the following:
            (a)   All property lines of the lot upon which any proposed
construction is to occur.
            (b)   The right of way lines for any street, road, or alley which
is part of the West Wheatfield Township road system and is adjacent to the lot.
            (c)   All setback lines.
            (d)   The exact size and location of any proposed construction as
well as any existing buildings or structures, proposed driveways and proposed
roads or streets leading to the site.
            (e)   A north arrow.
         (2)   Exceptions to Setback Requirements.
            (a)   The Township may grant an exception to the setback
requirements if the literal enforcement will exact undue hardship, provided
that such exception will not be contrary to the public interest and that the
purpose and intent of this Part is observed.
            (b)   An exception shall be granted only if:
               1)   The applicant did not create the conditions leading to the
request for an exception.
               2)   Unique physical circumstances or conditions are present on
the property, including peculiar shape, exceptional topographical or other
physical conditions, and a) the reasons for which an exception is sought are
due to these conditions and not the requirements of subparagraph (1) above, or
b) because of the physical circumstances or conditions, there is no possibility
that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the requirements
of subparagraph (1) if reasonable use is to be made of it.
            (c)   All requests for an exception shall be in writing and shall
accompany and be a part of the permit application. The request shall state in
full the grounds and facts of undue hardship on which the request is based
under the criteria set forth above, as well as the minimum deviation from the
requirements of subparagraph (1) that will provide relief.
            (d)   The exception, if granted, will represent the minimum
deviation that will afford relief and will represent the least deviation
possible of the requirements of subparagraph (1).
            (e)   The Township shall keep a written record of all action on all
requests for exceptions.
   2.   If any proposed construction or development is located entirely or
partially within any identified floodplain area, applicants for building
permits shall provide all the necessary information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and conform with the requirements of this and all other applicable codes
and ordinances.
      B.   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      C.   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   Applicants shall file the following minimum information plus any other
pertinent information as may be required by the Building Permit Officer to make
the above determination:
      A.   A completed building permit application form.
      B.   A plan of the entire site, clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of 1
inch being equal to 100 feet or less, showing the following:
         (1)   North arrow, scale, and date.
         (2)   Topographic contour lines, if available.
         (3)   All property and lot lines including, dimensions and the size of
the site expressed in acres or square feet.
         (4)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
and other improvements including, the location of any existing or proposed
subdivision and land development.
         (5)   The location of all existing streets, drives, and other
accessways.
         (6)   The location of any existing bodies of water or watercourses,
identified floodplain areas, and, if available, information pertaining to the
floodway, and the flow of water including direction and velocities.
      C.   Plans of all proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements,
drawn at suitable scale showing the following:
         (1)   The proposed lowest floor elevation of any proposed building
based upon North American Vertical Datum of 1988.
         (2)   The elevation of the 100-year flood.
         (3)   If available, information concerning flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with a 100-
year flood.
         (4)   Detailed information concerning any proposed flood-proofing
measures.
      D.   The following data and documentation:
         (1)   Documentation, certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect, to show that the cumulative effect of any proposed development
within a FE (Special Floodplain Area), when combined with all other existing
and anticipated development, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year
flood more than 1 foot at any point.
         (2)   A document, certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, which states that the proposed construction or development has been
adequately designed to withstand the pressures, velocities, impact and uplift
forces associated with the 100-year flood. Such statement shall include a
description of the type and extent of floodproofing measures which have been
incorporated into the design of the structure and/or the development.
         (3)   Detailed information needed to determine compliance with §
4-144.F, “Storage,” and §
4-145, “Development Which May Endanger Human Life,” including:
            (a)   The amount, location, and purpose of any materials or
substances referred to in §
4-144.F and §
4-145 which are intended to be used, produced, stored, or otherwise maintained
on site.
            (b)   A description of the safeguards incorporated into the design
of the proposed structure to prevent leaks or spills of the dangerous materials
or substances listed in §
4-145 during a 100-year flood.
         (4)   The appropriate component of the Department of Environmental
Protection’s “Planning Module for Land Development.”
         (5)   Where any excavation or grading is proposed, a plan meeting the
requirements of the Department of Environmental Protection, to implement and
maintain erosion and sedimentation control.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-114.   Review by County Conservation District.
   A copy of all applications and plans for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval
shall be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to the County Conservation
District for review and comment prior to the issuance of a building permit. The
recommendations of the Conservation District shall be considered by the
Floodplain Administrator for possible incorporation into the proposed plan.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-115.   Review of Application by Others.
   A copy of all plans and applications for any proposed construction or
development in any identified floodplain area to be considered for approval may
be submitted by the Floodplain Administrator to any other appropriate agencies
and/or individuals (e.g., Planning Commission, Township Engineer, etc.) for
review and comment.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-116.   Changes.
   After the issuance of a building permit by the Floodplain Administrator, no
changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit or any of the
plans, specifications, or other documents submitted with the application
without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain Administrator.
Requests for any such change shall be in writing, and shall be submitted by the
applicant to Floodplain Administrator for consideration.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-117.   Placard.
   In addition to the building permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a placard which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building permit, the
date of its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-118.   Start of Construction.
   1.   Work on the proposed construction or development shall begin within 180
days after the date of issuance and shall be completed within 12 months after
the date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. The actual
start of construction means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation of the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
nor occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   2.   Time extensions shall be granted only if a written request is submitted
by the applicant, which sets forth sufficient and reasonable cause for the
Floodplain Administrator to approve such a request.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-119.   Inspection and Revocation.
   1.   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official shall inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable municipal laws and ordinances. He shall
make as many inspections during and upon completion of the work as are
necessary.
   2.   In the discharge of his duties, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
the authority to enter any building, structure, premises or development in the
identified floodplain area, upon presentation of proper credentials, at any
reasonable hour to enforce the provisions of this Part.
   3.   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does
not comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances,
or that there has been a false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant,
the Floodplain Administrator shall revoke the building permit and report such
fact to the Board for whatever action it considers necessary.
   4.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain all records associated with
the requirements of this Part including, but not limited to, permitting,
inspection and enforcement.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-120.   Fees.
   Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee in an
amount as established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-121.   Enforcement.
   1.   Notices. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
municipal representative determines that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this Part, or of
any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Floodplain Administrator shall
give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided. Such notice
shall (A) be in writing; (B) include a statement of the reasons for its
issuance; (C) allow a reasonable time not to exceed a period of 30 days for the
performance of any act it requires; (D) be served upon the property owner or
his agent as the case may require; provided, however, that such notice or order
shall be deemed to have been properly served upon such owner or agent when a
copy thereof has been served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required by the laws of this State; (E) contain an outline of remedial action
which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this Part.
   2.   Penalties. Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the
requirements or provisions of this Part or who fails or refuses to comply with
any notice, order or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any other
authorized employee of the Township, upon conviction thereof in an action
brought before a magisterial district judge in the manner provided for the
enforcement of summary offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal
Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs
and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment
not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues or each
Section of this Part which shall be found to have been violated shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties all other
actions are hereby reserved, including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this Part. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation
of, or noncompliance with, this Part shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance or permit it to continue and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations and noncompliances within a reasonable
time. Any development initiated or any structure or building constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, altered, or relocated in noncompliance with this Part
may be declared by the Board to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-122.   Appeals.
   1.   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision of the Floodplain
Administrator concerning the administration of the provisions of this Part, may
appeal to the Board. Such appeal must be filed, in writing, within 30 days
after the decision or action of the Floodplain Administrator.
   2.   Upon receipt of such appeal the Board shall set a time and place,
within not less than 10 nor more than 30 days, for the purpose of considering
the appeal. Notice of the time and place at which the appeal will be considered
shall be given to all parties.
   3.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board may seek relief
therefrom by appeal to court, as provided by the laws of this Commonwealth
including the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. § 679.101 etseq.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
C.   Identification of Floodplain Zones
§ 4-131.   Identification.
   1.   The identified floodplain area shall be those areas of the Township of
West Wheatfield, classified as a special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) in the
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs)
dated April 3, 2012, and issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) or the most recent revision thereof, including all digital data
developed as part of the Flood Insurance Study.
   2.   The above referenced FIS and FIRMs, and any subsequent revisions and
amendments are hereby adopted by the Township of West Wheatfield and declared
to be a part of this Part.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-132.   Description of Floodplain Areas.
   1.   The identified floodplain area shall consist of the following specific
areas:
      A.   FW (Floodway Area). The areas identified as “Floodway” in the AE
Zone in the Flood Insurance Study prepared by the FEMA. The term shall also
include floodway areas which have been identified in other available studies or
sources of information for those floodplain areas where no floodway has been
identified in the Flood Insurance Study. For the purpose of this Part, the
floodway is based upon the criteria that a certain area within the floodplain
would be capable of carrying the waters of the 100-year flood without
increasing the water surface elevation of that flood more than 1 foot at any
point.
      B.   FF (Flood-Fringe Area). The remaining portions of the 100-year
floodplain in those areas identified as an AE Zone in the Flood Insurance
Study, where a floodway has been delineated. The basis for the outermost
boundary of this area shall be the 100-year flood elevations as shown in the
flood profiles contained in the Flood Insurance Study.
      C.   FE (Special Floodplain Area). The areas identified as Zone AE in the
Flood Insurance Study, where 100-year elevations have been provided, but no
floodway has been delineated.
      D.   FA (General Floodplain Area). The areas identified as Zone A in the
FIS for which no 100-year flood elevations have been provided. When available,
information from other Federal, State, and other acceptable sources shall be
used to determine the 100-year elevation, as well as a floodway area, if
possible. When no other information is available, the 100-year elevation shall
be determined by using a point on the boundary of the identified floodplain
area which is nearest the construction site in question.
   2.   In lieu of the above, the Township may require the applicant to
determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques.
Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by professional
engineers or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
Studies, analyses, computations, etc., shall be submitted in sufficient detail
to allow a thorough technical review by the Township of West Wheatfield.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-133.   Changes in Identification of Area.
   The identified floodplain area may be revised or modified by the Board where
studies or information provided by a qualified agency or person documents the
need for such revision. However, prior to any such change the approval must be
obtained from FEMA. Additionally, as soon as practicable, but not later than 6
months after the date such information becomes available, a community shall
notify the FEMA of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-134.   Boundary Disputes.
   Should a dispute concerning any identified floodplain boundary arise, an
initial determination shall be made by the Township of West Wheatfield Planning
Commission and any party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the Board.
The burden of proof shall be on the appellant.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
D.   Technical Provisions
§ 4-141.   General.
   1.   No encroachment, alteration, or improvement of any kind shall be made
to any watercourse until all adjacent municipalities which may be affected by
such action have been notified by the municipality, and until all required
permits or approvals have been first obtained from the Department of
Environmental Protection. In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development shall be
notified prior to any alteration or relocation of any watercourse.
   2.   Any new construction, development, uses or activities allowed within
any identified floodplain area shall be undertaken in strict compliance with
the provisions contained in this Part and any other applicable codes,
ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-142.   Special Requirements for FW, FE, and FA Areas.
   1.   Within any FW (Floodway Area), the following provisions apply:
      A.   Any new construction, development, use activity, or encroachment
that would cause any increase in flood heights shall be prohibited.
      B.   No new construction or development shall be allowed, unless a permit
is obtained from the Department of Environmental Protection.
   2.   Within any FE (Special Floodplain Area), no new construction or
development shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood
more than 1 foot at any point.
   3.   Within any FE (Special Floodplain Area) or FA (General Floodplain
Area), the following provisions apply:
      A.   No new construction or development shall be located within the area
measured 50 feet landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse.
      B.   Any new construction or development, which would cause any increase
in flood heights shall be prohibited within any floodway area.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-143.   Elevation and Floodproofing Requirements.
   1.   Residential Structures. Within any identified floodplain area, the
lowest floor (including, basement) of any new residential structure, or any
substantial improvement to an existing residential structure, shall be at least
1½ feet above the 100-year flood elevation. Fully enclosed spaces below the
lowest floor shall be prohibited.
   2.   Nonresidential Structures.
      A.   Within any identified floodplain area, the lowest floor (including
basement) of any new nonresidential structure, or any substantial improvement
to an existing nonresidential structure, shall be at least 1½ feet above the
100-year flood elevation, or be designed and constructed so that the space
enclosed by such structure shall remain either completely or essentially dry
during any flood up to that height. Fully enclosed spaces below the lowest
floor shall be prohibited.
      B.   Any nonresidential structure, or part thereof, having a lowest floor
which is not elevated to at least 1½ feet above the 100-year flood elevation,
shall be floodproofed in a completely or essentially dry manner in accordance
with the W1 or W2 space classification standards contained in the publication
entitled “Floodproofing Regulations” published by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers (June 1972), or with some other equivalent standard. All plans and
specifications for such floodproofing shall be accompanied by a statement
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect which states that
the proposed design and methods of construction are in conformance with the
above-referenced standards.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-144.   Design and Construction Standards.
   The following minimum standards shall apply for all construction and
development proposed within any identified floodplain area:
      A.   Fill. If fill is used, it shall:
         (1)   Extend laterally at least 15 feet beyond the building line from
all points.
         (2)   Consist of soil or small rock materials only. Sanitary landfills
shall not be permitted.
         (3)   Be compacted to provide the necessary permeability and
resistance to erosion, scouring, or settling.
         (4)   Be no steeper than 1 vertical to 2 horizontal feet unless
substantiated data, justifying steeper slopes, are submitted to and approved by
the Floodplain Administrator.
         (5)   Be used to the extent to which it does not adversely affect
adjacent properties.
      B.   Drainage Facilities. Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to
convey the flow of storm water runoff in a safe and effective manner. The
system shall insure proper drainage along streets, and provide positive
drainage away from buildings. The system shall also be designed to prevent the
discharge of excess runoff onto adjacent properties.
      C.   Water and Sanitary Sewer Facilities and Systems.
         (1)   All new or replacement water and sanitary sewer facilities and
systems shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damages and the infiltration of flood waters.
         (2)   Sanitary sewer facilities and systems shall be designed to
prevent the discharge of untreated sewage into flood waters.
         (3)   No part of any on-site sewage system shall be located within any
identified floodplain area except in strict compliance with all State and local
regulations for such systems. If any such system is permitted, it shall be
located so as to avoid impairment to it, or contamination from it, during a
flood.
      D.   Other Utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
and telephone systems shall be located, elevated (where possible) and
constructed to minimize the chance of impairment during a flood.
      E.   Streets. The finished elevation of all new streets shall be no more
than 1 foot below the regulatory flood elevation.
      F.   Storage. All materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or,
in times of flooding, could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, and
not listed in §
4-145 , “Development Which May Endanger Human Life,” shall be stored at or
above the regulatory flood elevation and/or floodproofed to the maximum extent
possible.
      G.   Placement of Buildings and Structures. All buildings and structures
shall be designed, located, and constructed so as to offer the minimum
obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum effect
upon the flow and height of flood water.
      H.   Anchoring.
         (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in
accordance with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.
         (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, storage tanks, and other similar
objects or components located below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
securely anchored or affixed to prevent flotation.
      I.   Floors, Walls, and Ceilings.
         (1)   Wood flooring used at or below the regulatory flood elevation
shall be installed to accommodate a lateral expansion of the flooring,
perpendicular to the flooring grain, without causing structural damage to the
building.
         (2)   Plywood used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall be
of a “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
         (3)   Walls and ceilings at or below the regulatory flood elevation
shall be designed and constructed of materials that are water-resistant and
will withstand inundation.
         (4)   Windows, doors, and other components at or below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be made of metal or other water-resistant material.
      J.   Paints and Adhesives.
         (1)   Paints or other finishes used at or below the regulatory flood
elevation shall be of “marine” or “water-resistant” quality.
         (2)   Adhesives used at or below the regulatory flood elevation shall
be of “marine” or “water-resistant” variety.
         (3)   All wooden components (doors, trim, cabinets, etc.) shall be
finished with a “marine” or “water-resistant” paint or other finishing
material.
      K.   Electrical Components.
         (1)   Electrical distribution panels shall be at least 3 feet above
the 100- year flood elevation.
         (2)   Separate electrical circuits shall serve lower levels and shall
be dropped from above.
      L.   Equipment. Water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning, and
ventilating units, and all other electrical, mechanical, or utility equipment
or apparatus shall not be located below the regulatory flood elevation.
      M.   Fuel Supply Systems. All gas and oil supply systems shall be
designed to prevent the infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharges from the system into flood waters. Additional provisions shall be
made for the drainage of these systems in the event that flood water
infiltration occurs.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-145.   Development Which May Endanger Human Life.
   1.   In accordance with the Pennsylvania Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S.
§ 679.101 etseq., and the regulations adopted by the Department of Community
and Economic Development as required by the Act, any new or substantially
improved structure which:
      A.   Will be used for the production or storage of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances.
      B.   Will be used for any activity requiring the maintenance of a supply
of more than 550 gallons, or other comparable volume, of any of the following
dangerous materials or substances on the premises.
      C.   Will involve the production, storage, or use of any amount of
radioactive substances.
   Shall be subject to the provisions of this section, in addition to all other
applicable provisions. The following list of materials and substances are
considered dangerous to human life:
      A.   Acetone.
      B.   Ammonia.
      C.   Benzene.
      D.   Calcium carbide.
      E.   Carbon disulfide.
      F.   Celluloid.
      G.   Chlorine.
      H.   Hydrochloric acid.
      I.   Hydrocyanic acid.
      J.   Magnesium.
      K.   Nitric acid and oxides of nitrogen.
      L.   Petroleum products (gasoline, fuel oil, etc.).
      M.   Phosphorus.
      N.   Potassium.
      O.   Sodium.
      P.   Sulphur and sulphur products.
      Q.   Pesticides (including, insecticides, fungicides and rodenticides).
      R.   Radioactive substances, insofar as such substances are not otherwise
regulated.
   2.   Within any FW (Floodway Area), any structure of the kind described in
subsection .1, above, shall be prohibited.
   3.   Where permitted within any floodplain area, any new or substantially
improved structure of the kind described in subsection .1, above, shall be:
      A.   Elevated or designed and constructed to remain completely dry up to
at least 1½ feet above the 100-year flood.
      B.   Designed to prevent pollution from the structure or activity during
the course of a 100-year flood.
   Any such structure, or part thereof, that will be built below the regulatory
flood elevation shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
standards for completely dry floodproofing contained in the publication
“Floodproofing Regulations” (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, June 1972), or with
some other equivalent watertight standard.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-146.   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes.
   1.   Within any FW (Floodway Area), manufactured homes shall be prohibited.
   2.   Within any FA (General Floodplain Area) or FE (Special Floodplain
Area), manufactured homes shall be prohibited within the area measured 50 feet
landward from the top-of-bank of any watercourse.
   3.   Where permitted within any floodplain area, all manufactured homes, and
any additions thereto, shall be:
      A.   Placed on a permanent foundation.
      B.   Elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is 1½
feet or more above the elevation of the 100-year flood.
      C.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-147.   Special Requirements for Subdivisions.
   All subdivision proposals and development proposals containing at least 50
lots or at least 5 acres, whichever is the lesser, in flood hazard areas where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic engineering analyses that determine base flood elevations and
floodway information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional
engineer in a format required by FEMA for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
or Letter of Map Revision. Submittal requirements and processing fees shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-148.   Special Requirements for Recreational Vehicles.
   Recreational vehicles in Zones A, A1-30, AH and AE must either:
      A.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days.
      B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      C.   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes in §
4-146.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
E.   Activities Requiring Special Permits
§ 4-151.   General.
   In accordance with the administrative regulations promulgated by the
Department of Community and Economic Development to implement the Pennsylvania
Floodplain Management Act, 32 P.S. § 697.101 etseq., the following activities
shall be prohibited within any identified floodplain area:
      A.   The commencement of any of the following activities; or the
construction, enlargement, or expansion of any structure used, or identified to
be used, for any of the following activities:
         (1)   Hospitals.
         (2)   Nursing homes.
         (3)   Jails or prisons.
      B.   The commencement of, or any construction of, a new manufactured home
park or manufactured home subdivision, or substantial improvement to an
existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
F.   Existing Structures in Identified Floodplain Areas
§ 4-161.   Existing Structures.
   The provisions of this Part do not require any changes or improvements to be
made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an improvement is made to
any existing structure, the provisions of §
4-162 shall apply.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-162.   Improvements.
   The following provisions shall apply whenever any improvement is made to an
existing structure located within any identified floodplain area:
      A.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the elevation
of the 100- year flood.
      B.   No expansion or enlargement of an existing structure shall be
allowed within any FE area that would, together with all other existing and
anticipated development, increase the 100-year flood elevation more than 1 foot
at any point.
      C.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement, of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of 50 percent or more of
its market value, shall constitute a substantial improvement and shall be
undertaken only in full compliance with the provisions of this Part.
      D.   Any modification, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure, to an extent or amount of less than 50 percent
of its market value, shall be elevated and/or floodproofed to the greatest
extent possible.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
G.   Variances
§ 4-171.   General.
   If compliance with any of the requirements of this Part would result in an
exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer, or landowner, the
Township of West Wheatfield may, upon request, grant relief from the strict
application of the requirements.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-172.   Variance Procedures and Conditions.
   1.   Requests for variances shall be considered by the Township of West
Wheatfield in accordance with the procedures contained in §
4-122 and the following:
      A.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use,
or activity within any floodway area that would cause any increase in the 100-
year flood elevation.
      B.   No variance shall be granted for any construction, development, use,
or activity within any FE area that would, together with all other existing and
anticipated development, increase the 100-year flood elevation more than 1 foot
at any point.
      C.   Except for a possible modification of the 1½ foot freeboard
requirement involved, no variance shall be granted which would allow prohibited
activities to be located within any identified floodplain area or to
“Development Which May Endanger Human Life,” §
4-145.
      D.   If granted, a variance shall involve only the least modification
necessary to provide relief.
      E.   In granting any variance, the Township of West Wheatfield shall
attach whatever reasonable conditions and safeguards it considers necessary in
order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and to achieve the
objectives of this Part.
      F.   Whenever a variance is granted, the Township of West Wheatfield
shall notify the applicant in writing that:
         (1)   The granting of the variance may result in increased premium
rates for flood insurance.
         (2)   Such variances may increase the risks to life and property.
      G.   In reviewing any request for a variance, the Township of West
Wheatfield shall consider, at a minimum, the following:
         (1)   That there is good and sufficient cause.
         (2)   That failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant.
         (3)   That the granting of the variance will (a) neither result in an
unacceptable or prohibited increase in flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, or extraordinary public expense, (b) nor create nuisances, cause
fraud on, or victimize the public, or conflict with any other applicable State
or local ordinances and regulations.
      H.   A complete record of all variance requests and related action shall
be maintained by the Township of West Wheatfield. In addition, a report of all
variances granted during the year shall be included in the annual report to the
Federal Insurance Administration.
   2.   Notwithstanding any of the above, however, all structures shall be
designed and constructed so as to have the capability of resisting the 100-year
flood.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
H.   Definitions
§ 4-181.   General.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used in this Part shall
be interpreted so as to give this Part its most reasonable application.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-182.   Specific Definitions.
   Accessory use or structure–a use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   Base flood–a flood that has a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the “100-year flood”).
   Base flood elevation (BFE)–the elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30 that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from a flood that has a 1 percent or greater chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year.
   Basement–any area of the building having its floor below ground level on all
sides.
   Building–a combination of materials to form a permanent structure having
walls and a roof. Included shall be all manufactured homes and trailers to be
used for human habitation.
   Completely dry space–a space which will remain totally dry during flooding;
the structure is designed and constructed to prevent the passage of water and
water vapor.
   Construction–the construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
extension, expansion, alteration, or relocation of a building or structure,
including the placement of manufactured homes.
   Development–any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures, the
placement of manufactured homes, streets, and other paving, utilities, filling,
grading, excavation, mining, dredging, or drilling operations, storage of
equipment or materials, and the subdivision of land.
   Essentially dry space–a space which will remain dry during flooding, except
for the passage of some water vapor or minor seepage; the structure is
substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision–the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   Flood–a temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)–the official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS)–the official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the Flood Insurance
Rate Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, and the water surface elevation
of the base flood.
   Floodplain area–a relatively flat or low land area which is subject to
partial or complete inundation from an adjoining or nearby stream, river or
watercourse; and/or any area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation of
surface waters from any source.
   Floodproofing– any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   Floodway–channel or river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
   Historic structures–any structure that is:
      A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register.
      B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      C.   Individually listed on a State inventory of historic places in
States which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
      D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation that have been certified either:
         (1)   By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior.
         (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   Identified floodplain area–the floodplain area specifically identified in
this Part as being inundated by the 100-year flood. Included would be areas
identified as Floodway (FW), Flood Fringe (FF), Special Floodplain Area (FE),
and General Floodplain (FA).
   Land development–(A) the improvement of one lot, or two or more contiguous
lots, tracts, or parcels of land for any purpose involving (1) a group of two
or more buildings, or (2) the division or allocation of land or space between
or among two or more existing or prospective occupants by means of, or for the
purpose of streets, common areas, leaseholds, condominiums, building groups or
other features; (B) a subdivision of land.
   Lowest floor–the lowest floor of the lowest fully enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished, flood resistant partially enclosed area, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, and incidental storage, in an area
other than a basement area is not considered the lowest floor of a building,
provided that such space is not designated and built so that the structure is
in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Part.
   Manufactured home–a transportable, single-family dwelling intended for
permanent occupancy, office, or place of assembly, contained in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis, which arrives at a site complete and
ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly
operations, and constructed so that it may be used with or without a permanent
foundation. The term includes park trailers, travel trailers, recreational, and
other similar vehicles which are placed on a site for more than 180 consecutive
days.
   Manufactured home park–a parcel of land under single ownership, which has
been planned and improved for the placement of two or more manufactured homes
for non- transient use.
   Minor repair–the replacement of existing work with equivalent materials for
the purpose of its routine maintenance and upkeep, but not including the
cutting away of any wall, partition or portion thereof, the removal or cutting
of any structural beam or bearing support, or the removal or change of any
required means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting
the exitway requirements; nor shall minor repairs include addition to,
alteration of, replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer
drainage, drain leader, gas, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or
mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety.
   New construction–structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after April 2, 1990, and includes any subsequent improvements thereto.
   New manufactured home park or subdivision–a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   One hundred-year flood–a flood that, on the average, is likely to occur once
every 100-years (i.e., that has 1 percent chance of occurring each year,
although the flood may occur in any year).
   Person–an individual, partnership, public or private association or
corporation, firm, trust, estate, municipality, governmental unit, public
utility or any other legal entity whatsoever which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
   Recreational vehicle–a vehicle that is:
      A.   Built on a single chassis.
      B.   Not more than 400 square feet, measured at the largest horizontal
projections.
      C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty
truck.
      D.   Not designed for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   Regulatory flood elevation–the 100-year flood elevation plus a freeboard
safety factor of 1½ feet.
   Special flood hazard area (SFHA)–an area in the floodplain subject to a 1
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is shown on the
FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, or, AH.
   Special permit–a special approval which is required for hospitals, nursing
homes, jails, and new manufactured home parks and subdivisions and substantial
improvements to such existing parks, when such development is located in all,
or a designated portion of a floodplain.
   Start of construction–includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days from the date of the permit
and shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance of the
permit unless a time extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain
Administrator. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
state of excavation; or the placement of a manufacture home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first,
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   Structure–the walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   Subdivision–the division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, transfer of ownership or building or lot development;
provided, however, that the subdivision by lease of land for agricultural
purposes into parcels of more than 10 acres, not involving any new street or
easement of access or residential dwellings shall be exempted.
   Substantial damage–damage from any cause sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50 percent or more of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   Substantial improvement–any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the “start of construction”
of the improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred
“substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
      A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      B.   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   Violation–the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5), is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
Part 2
Assignment of Street Addresses
§ 4-201.   Purpose.
   1.   The purpose of the West Wheatfield Township street addressing ordinance
is to provide orderly assignment of street addresses to every inhabitable
structure in the Township which does not currently have a valid municipal style
street address in order to protect the safety and welfare of the general public
by facilitating the location of individual dwellings and businesses by
emergency response personnel.
   2.   The Indiana County Planning Office shall have the sole authority to
verify, modify, or assign new street addresses and to enforce the requirements
of this Part as provided herein.
   3.   During the conduct of addressing operations within the Township, the
Indiana County Planning Office, or such contractor(s) as may be duly appointed
by the Township, shall have the right to enter upon, travel, measure, and
inspect all roadways and private driveways to visit and record information
about all inhabitable structures within the county for the purposes of
determining, assigning, and notifying the inhabitants thereof of such assigned
addresses.
   4.   Administrative review requests may be submitted to the Township or
Indiana County Planning Office. Appeals may be directed to the Township for
submission to the Indiana County Planning Office. Each review request or appeal
shall be in writing and addressed to the appropriate authority.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-202.   Posting of Addresses.
   1.   Within 30 days of receipt of written notification, in accordance with
this Part by the Township or its duly appointed contractor(s), of the
assignment of, or change of a structure address number, the owner of said
structure shall post the assigned structure address number in compliance with
the requirements herein.
   2.   All address numbers shall be constructed of durable material with a
color which shall contrast with the color scheme of the surface on which it is
posted. The minimum size for all such posted address numbers shall be 4 inches
in height with a minimum stroke width of ½ inch. In every case the posted
numbers shall be clear and readable from the street or roadway along which the
structure is addressed.
   3.   The numbers shall be posted upon the structure within 3 feet of the
main entrance thereto unless the structure is more than 75 feet from the
roadway or not visible from the roadway. In such cases the address numbers
shall be posted within 10 feet of the roadway and within 5 feet of either side
of the driveway to the structure.
   4.   Following the posting of the assigned address numbers, as required
herein, the owner shall maintain the posted address number at all times in
compliance with this Part. Posted address numbers, as viewed from the public
roadway, shall not be obstructed from view by landscaping, shrubs, vegetation,
screen doors, canopies, ornaments, or any other plant or structure.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-203.   Procedures.
   When an owner or resident of any structure in the Township receives
notification of a new or changed address, that owner or resident shall
promptly:
      A.   Sign the appropriate place on the form to acknowledge receipt of the
notification.
      B.   Provide all information requested by the notification form by
completing the brief questions on the notification form prior to mailing it
back to the proper agency.
      C.   Return the completed and signed return portion of the notification
form to the address listed on the notification form.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-204.   West Wheatfield Township Addressing System.
   1.   Base Line Alternative. The municipal addressing system is based upon a
calculated street address which uses:
      A.   The measured distance along the roadway from an intersection to
property to be addressed.
      B.   The orientation of the roadway in relation to the intersection of US
HWY 422 and US HWY 119.
      C.   The side of the roadway on which the property is situated.
         (1)   US HWY 422 and US HWY 119 are considered the base lines for the
County of Indiana, County-wide addressing. The intersection of US HWY 422 and
US HWY 119 is considered the point of origin for these base lines. All
addresses will be calculated upon distance as measured from this intersection.
All assigned addresses on each roadway will start with the lowest assigned
numerical address at that end of the roadway which is the closest to the point
of origin of the base lines. In the case of dead-end roads the numbers will
begin at the end of the road which intersects another named roadway.
         (2)   All roads which cross either of the county base line roads the
numbering will begin at the base line and progress upward away from the base
line. Such roads will then also be designated with an east, west, north, or
south prefix. For those which cross more than two base lines, the directional
prefix will be based solely upon the north-south base line, US HWY 119.
         (3)   Individual addresses will be the product of the division of the
measured distance along the roadway by the number 5.28 so that every address
will reflect the mileage along the roadway. For example an address of 1600 will
be located 1.6 miles along the roadway. Numbers will be assigned at an interval
of no less than 52.8 feet to insure adequate number progression. Numbers will
be assigned with even numbers on the right side of the roadway, odd numbers on
the left side of the roadway, as one would stand with their back towards the
beginning point. All inhabitable structures will be addressed. Structures which
are obviously facing a named road will be addressed with respect to that
roadway. Addresses will be assigned based upon the measured distance to the
front door of the structure. Buildings which are more than 75 feet from the
roadway will be addressed based upon the measured distance to the center of the
driveway to the structure.
         (4)   No letter characters will be used in assigning addresses except
in the case of individual units situated within a multi-family structure. In
such cases the entire multi-family structure shall have an individual numeric
address assigned in accordance with this Part.
   2.   Grid Map Alternative: The Township addressing system is based upon a
calculated street address which is based upon:
      A.   The measured distance along the roadway from an intersection to the
property to be addressed.
      B.   The location of the roadway in relation to the intersection of US
HWY 422 and US HWY 119.
      C.   The side of the roadway on which the property is situated.
      D.   The County Emergency Response Grid within which the property is
situated.
         (1)   US HWY 422 and US HWY 119 are considered the base lines for
countywide addressing. The intersection of US HWY 422 and US HWY 119 is
considered the point of origin for these base lines. All addresses will be
calculated upon distances as measured from this intersection.
         (2)   All assigned addresses on each roadway will start with the
lowest assigned numerical address at that end of the roadway which is the
closest to the point of origin of the base address at that end of the roadway
which is the closest to the point of origin or the base lines. In the case of
dead-end roads the numbers will begin at the end of the road which intersects
another named roadway.
         (3)   All roads which cross either of the county base line roads the
numbering will begin at the base line and progress upward away from the base
line. Such roads will then also be designated with an east, west, north, or
south prefix. For those roads which cross more than two base lines, the
directional prefix will be based solely upon the north-south base line, US HWY
119.
         (4)   Individual addresses will be the product of the division of the
measured distance along the roadway by the number 5.28 so that every address
will reflect the mileage along the roadway. For example an address of 1600 will
be located 1.6 miles along the roadway. Number will be assigned with at an
interval of no less than 52.8 feet to insure adequate number progression. All
assigned. addresses will also have a one or two digit numerical prefix which
reflects the numerical emergency response grid number within which the address
is situated. Numbers will be assigned with even numbers on the right side of
the roadway, odd numbers on the left side of the roadway, as one would stand
with their back towards the beginning point.
         (5)   All Inhabitable Structures Will Be Addressed. Structures which
are obviously facing a named road will be addressed with respect to that
roadway. Addresses will be assigned based upon the measured distance to the
front door of the structure. Buildings which are more than 75 feet from the
roadway will be addressed based upon the measured distance to the center of the
driveway to the structure.
         (6)   No letter characters will be used in assigning addresses except
in the case of individual units situated within a multi-family structure. In
such cases the entire multi-family structure shall have an individual numeric
address assigned in accordance with this Part.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-205.   Road Names.
   The Township preserves the right to name all municipal, County, and State
roadways within its boundaries. Private roadways, being identified as roads not
maintained by the Township, County, or State, owned by a private citizen and
with more than two inhabitable structures located on it, shall be named by the
private owners and only in the case of a failure on the part of the private
owners to name said road shall the Township designate an identifier name.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
Part 3
Providing for the Vacating, Removal, Repair or Demolition
of Any Structures Dangerous to the Health, Morals, Safety, or General Welfare
of the People
§ 4-301.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known as and may be cited as the “West Wheatfield
Township Dangerous Buildings Ordinance.”
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-302.   Application.
   This Part shall apply uniformly to all persons, business organizations,
nonprofit organizations, and all other legal entities; and, it shall apply
uniformly to all property and all property owners within the Township of West
Wheatfield.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-303.   Definitions and Word Usage.
   1.   Unless otherwise specifically defined below, words or phrases used
herein shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in
common usage and so as to give this Part its most reasonable application
consistent with its intent.
   2.   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   3.   The word “Board” shall mean the Board of Supervisors of the Township of
West Wheatfield (see “Township” herein below).
   4.   The word “Township” shall mean the Township of West Wheatfield, County
of Indiana in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   5.   The words “dangerous buildings” shall mean all the buildings or
structures which have any or all of the following defects; and, all such
buildings or structures shall be deemed “dangerous buildings”:
      A.   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other cause so as to
fail utterly to provide the amenities essential to decent living and are unfit
for human habitation and/or unfit for commercial use.
      B.   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other cause so as to
have become dangerous to the life and safety, morals, or the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the Township.
      C.   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living so that they are unfit for human habitation and/or unfit for
commercial use.
      D.   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living and are likely to cause accidents, sickness, or disease, so as to
work injury to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of those living
herein as well as other citizens of the Township.
      E.   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they might
fall and injure members of the public or adjoining property.
      F.   Those which because of their general condition are unsafe,
unsanitary or dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the
people of the Township.
   6.   Words used in the present tense include the future and past, words in
the plural number include the singular, words in the singular number include
the words in the plural, and words either in the feminine, masculine or neuter
shall include words of the other two genders.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-304.   Dangerous Buildings as Nuisances.
   1.   All “dangerous buildings” are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be repaired, vacated or demolished.
   2.   Each day a nuisance in the form of a “dangerous building” continues,
after notice is given that said dangerous building is to be repaired, vacated
or demolished, shall constitute a separate offense in violation of this Part.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-305.   Investigation Procedure.
   Whenever it shall be reported or come to the attention of any Township
official or police officer that any building or structure, completed or in the
process of construction, or any portion thereof, is in a dangerous condition,
such person shall report same to the Board; and, the Board shall immediately
designate a Township official, employee or police officer to make an
investigation and examination of such building or structure. If such
investigation or examination indicates such building or structure to be a
“dangerous building,” a written report of such investigation shall be sent to
the Board, specifying the exact condition of such building or structure and
setting forth whether or in what respect the structure is dangerous and whether
the structure is capable of being property repaired or whether it shall be
removed as a “dangerous building.”
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-306.   Hearing Procedure.
   The Board of Supervisors of the Township shall:
      A.   Upon receipt of a report in accordance with the investigation
procedure provided for herein above in §
4-305 of this Part, give written notice to the owner or owners of such
dangerous building as determined by the record in the Office of the Recorder of
Deeds in and for the County of Indiana, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, or
failing to find any owner or owners, then such occupant, mortgagee, lessee,
agent, or any other person with an interest in said dangerous building who may
be located, to appear before the Board on the date specified in the notice to
show cause why the building or structure reported to be a “dangerous building”
should not be repaired, demolished or vacated in accordance with the statement
of particulars set forth in the notice provided for herein.
      B.   Within not less than 10 nor more than 60 days from the date of such
notice, hold a hearing and hear such testimony as the owner, occupant,
mortgagee, lessee or other person having an interest in said building shall
offer testimony related to the said “dangerous building.”
      C.   Within 30 days of such hearing, make written findings of fact from
the testimony offered pursuant to the hearing as to whether or not the building
in question is a “dangerous building.”
      D.   Within not more than 30 days following the hearing provided for by
subsection .B hereof, issue an order, based upon findings of fact made pursuant
to subsection .C hereof, demanding the owner of said building to repair,
demolish or vacate any building found to be a “dangerous building.”
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-307.   Standards for Repair, Vacation or Demolition.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Board in
ordering repair, vacation or demolition of a dangerous building:
      A.   If the “dangerous building” can be repaired as determined by the
Board so that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this Part,
it shall be ordered repaired.
      B.   If the “dangerous building” is such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of its occupants it
shall be ordered to be vacated.
      C.   If the “dangerous building” cannot be reasonably repaired as
determined by the Board, it shall be demolished.
      D.   If the “dangerous building” is a fire hazard or is existing or
erected in violation of the terms of this Part any other ordinance of the
Township or any statute of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, it shall be
demolished.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-308.   Enforcement Procedures.
   1.   If any structure is deemed to be a “dangerous building” within the
standards of this Part, the Board shall forthwith cause notice to be served
upon the owner or owners of such dangerous building as determined by the record
in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds in and for the County of Indiana in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, or failing to find any owner or owners, then such
occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent, or any other person with an interest in
said dangerous building who may be located.
   2.   The notice required by this Section shall be served personally upon the
owner or owners of a dangerous building if such owner resides, or such owners,
reside in the Township or personally upon his agent if such agent resides
within the Township. If personal service required herein cannot be obtained,
such notice shall be sent to the owner or owners of a dangerous building by
certified mail at the last known address according to the records available in
Tax Assessment in and for the County of Indiana in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
   3.   Such notice shall identify the building or structure deemed dangerous,
contain a statement of the particulars which make this building or structure a
dangerous building and include an order requiring the same to be put in such
condition as to conform with the terms of this Part; provided, further, in any
case where the notice prescribes the repair of any structure, the owner thereof
shall have the option to remove such structure in lieu of making the repairs
thereto within the time period provided.
   4.   Such notice shall require any person notified to repair, vacate or
demolish any building to commence the work or act required by the notice within
10 days of such notice and to comply with such repair, vacation or demolition
within 60 days from the receipt of such notice.
   5.   The Board shall cause to be placed on all dangerous buildings a notice
reading substantially as follows:
   “This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the Board of
Supervisors for the Township of West Wheatfield, County of Indiana in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. This notice is to remain on this building until
it is repaired, vacated, or demolished in accordance with the notice which has
been given to the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent of the building.
It is unlawful to remove this notice until compliance is made under the terms
contained in the notice served on the above-named party.”
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-309.   Penalties.
   1.   All fines provided for in this Section shall be in addition to costs.
   2.   Any person who shall fail to comply with any notice or order to repair,
vacate or demolish any dangerous building, which notice is served by any person
authorized to do so by the Board, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of
said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day
that a violation of this Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   3.   Any person removing the notice provided for §
4-308.5, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a
term of imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that a violation of this
Part continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   4.   Any person having an interest in any building who fails to comply with
any notice or order to repair, vacate, or demolish any dangerous building
within 60 days of the receipt of such notice, by such failure, does empower the
Board to cause such building or structure to be repaired, vacated, or
demolished by the Township and to cause the costs of such repair, vacation or
demolition together with a penalty of 10 percent to be charged upon the land
upon which the building exists as a municipal lien, or alternatively to recover
such costs and penalty in a suit at law against the owner or owners but failing
to recover same to have the judgment therefore to be charged upon the land as
lien; and, this subsection is separate from and in addition to the fine,
penalty and costs which may be imposed by any other subsection of this Section.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
§ 4-310.   Emergency Cases.
   In cases where it reasonably appears that there exists an immediate danger
to the life of  safety of any person caused or created by a dangerous building,
the Board shall cause the immediate repair, vacation or demolition of such
dangerous building. The costs of such emergency repair, vacation or demolition
of such dangerous building shall be collected as provided for in §
4-309.4 of this Part.
(Ord. 12/12/2011)
Chapter 5
Code Enforcement
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
   §
5-101.   Adoption
Part 1
Uniform Construction Code
§ 5-101.   Adoption.
   1.   The Township of West Wheatfield hereby elects to administer and enforce
the provisions of the Pennsylvania Construction Code Act, Act 45 of 1999, 35
P.S. § § 7210.101–7210.1103, as amended from time to time, and its regulations.
   2.   The Uniform Construction Code, as established by the Pennsylvania
Department of Labor and Industry, contained in 34 Pa.Code, Chapters 401–405, as
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the municipal building code of the Township of West Wheatfield.
   3.   Administration and enforcement of the Code within the Township of West
Wheatfield shall be undertaken by the County of Indiana through their Office of
Planning and Development in accordance with a mutually agreed upon contract.
   4.   A Board of Appeals shall be established by resolution of the County of
Indiana in conformity with the requirements of the relevant provisions of the
Code, as amended from time to time, and for the purposes set forth therein. In
the event of the County no longer administering and enforcing the UCC, it will
be the responsibility of the Township of West Wheatfield to establish their own
Board of Appeals as set forth in the Code.
   5.   All building code ordinances or portions of ordinances which are in
effect as of the July 1, 2004, [effective date] of this Part and whose
requirements are less than the minimum requirements of the Code are hereby
amended to conform with the comparable provisions of the Code.
   6.   All relevant ordinances, regulations, and policies of the Township of
West Wheatfield not governed by the Code shall remain in full force and effect.
   7.   Fees assessable to the administration and enforcement undertaken
pursuant to this Part and the Code shall be established by the contract of the
Township of West Wheatfield and the County of Indiana and may be amended from
time to time.
   8.   This Part shall be effective with all applications for building permits
received on July 1, 2004, and later.
(Ord. 05-04, 6/14/2004)
Chapter 6
Conduct
Part 1
Disorderly Conduct
   §
6-101.   Prohibited
   §
6-102.   Penalties
Part 2
Pornography
   §
6-201.   Definitions
   §
6-202.   Promoting Pornography
   §
6-203.   Promoting Pornography for Minors
   §
6-204.   Defenses
   §
6-205.   Penalties
Part 1
Disorderly Conduct
§ 6-101.   Prohibited.
   Disorderly conduct is hereby prohibited within the Township of West
Wheatfield. Any person who shall be guilty of any act, word, or conduct causing
or tending to cause a disturbance of the peace and good order of the Township,
or causing or tending to cause any danger, discomfort, or annoyance to any of
the inhabitants of the Township or users of the Township thoroughfares; or who
shall fight or quarrel or incite others to fight or quarrel; or who shall
frequent any disorderly house in the Township; or who shall publicly make use
of obscene or indecent language; or who shall be found drinking any
intoxicating liquor upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or public grounds in the
Township, or upon any private grounds without having written permission to do
so from the owner or occupant thereof; or who shall loaf or loiter or
congregate upon any of the public streets or alleys or public grounds in the
Township of West Wheatfield, to the annoyance of peaceable residents nearby or
traveling upon any street or alley or being lawfully upon any of the public
grounds in the Township whereby the public peace is broken or disturbed or the
traveling public annoyed shall be guilty of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. O-68-3, 9/14/1968)
§ 6-102.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not less than $25 and not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default
of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90
days. Each day that a violation of this Part continues or each Section of this
Part which shall be found to have been violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. O-68-3, 9/14/1968; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 2
Pornography
§ 6-201.   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Part, the words and phrases set forth below shall
have the meaning respectively ascribed to them:
   Audience–one or more persons who are permitted to view a performance (1) for
valuable consideration, or (2) in or from a public place.
   Display publicly–the exposing, placing, posting, exhibiting, or in any other
fashion displaying in any location, whether public or private, material or a
performance in such a manner that it may be readily seen and its content or
character distinguished by normal unaided vision viewing it from a public place
or vehicle.
   Disseminate–to manufacture, issue, publish, sell, lend, distribute,
transmit, broadcast, exhibit, or present material or to offer or agree to do
the same, or to have in one’s possession with intent to do the same.
   Material–any printed matter, visual representation, or sound recording, and
includes, but is not limited to, books, magazines, motion picture films,
pamphlets, newspapers, pictures, photographs, drawings, three-dimensioned
forms, sculptures, and phonograph, tape, or wire recordings.
   Minor–any person under 18 years of age.
   Nudity–uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-pubertal human
genitals or public area, the post-pubertal human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola or the covered human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state. For the purpose of this definition, a female breast
is considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and the areola only
are covered.
   Pander–advertising or propagandizing in connection with the sale of
materials, the offering of a service, or the presentation or exhibition of a
performance by appealing to the prurient interest of potential customers.
   Performance–any live or reproduced exhibition including, but not limited to,
any play, motion picture film, dance or appearance presented to or performed
before an audience.
   Pornographic–relating to pornography.
   Pornography–any material or performance, except as hereinafter in this
paragraph set forth if all of the following elements are presented: (1)
considered as a whole, by the average person, applying contemporary community
standards of West Wheatfield Township, it appeals to the prurient interest, (2)
it depicts, describes or represents in a patently offensive way, sexual
conduct, as hereinafter defined; and (3) it lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value. Provided, however, that anything contained in
this Part to the contrary, notwithstanding, “pornography” shall not include any
motion picture film which (a) carries a rating of G, PG, R, or X, as is
currently granted by the Motion Picture Rating Board of the Motion Picture
Producers and Distributors Association, or any other rating which from time to
time may be customarily granted by said Motion Picture Rating Board, and (b)
carries the symbol of said Motion Picture Producers and Distributors
Association.
   Pornography for minors–any material or performance except as hereinafter set
forth, if all of the following elements are present: (1) Considered as a whole
by the average person applying the contemporary community standards of West
Wheatfield Township with respect to what is suitable for minors, it is
presented in such a manner as to appeal to a minor’s prurient interest, (2) it
depicts, describes, or represents in a patently offensive way nudity or sexual
conduct as hereinafter defined; and (3) it lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value for minors. Provided; however, that anything
contained in this Part to the contrary notwithstanding, “pornography for
minors” shall not include any motion picture film which (a) carries a rating of
G, PG, R, or X, as is currently granted by the Motion Picture Rating Board of
the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors Association, or any other rating
which from time to time may be customarily granted by said Motion Picture
Rating Board, and (b) carries the symbol of said Motion Picture Producers and
Distributors Association.
   Prurient interest–desire or craving for sexual stimulation or gratification.
In determining “prurient interest,” the material or performance shall be judged
with reference to average persons, unless it appears from the character of the
material or performance that it is designed to appeal to the “prurient
interest” of a particular group of persons including, but not limited to,
homosexuals, or sadomasochists. In this case, it shall be judged with reference
to the particular group for which it was designed.
   Public place or vehicle–any of the streets, alleys, parks, boulevards,
schools, or other public property in the Township or any dance hall, rental
hall, theater, amusement park, liquor establishment, store, depot, place of
public accommodation, other private property generally frequented by the public
for the purpose of education, recreation, amusement, entertainment, sport,
shopping or travel; or any vehicle for public transportation, owned or operated
by government, either directly or through a public corporation or authority, or
owned or operated by any non-governmental agency for the use, enjoyment or
transportation of the general public.
   Sexual conduct–(1) masturbation; (2) sexual intercourse, whether genital-
genital, oral-genital, oral-anal, or anal-genital; (3) any erotic fondling or
touching of the covered or uncovered genitals, buttocks, pubic area, or any
part of the breasts of the female, whether the conduct described (1) through
(3) is engaged in alone or between members of the same or opposite sex, or
between humans and animals, or humans and inanimate objects; (4) actual or
stimulated display or exhibition of the human pubic area or genitals or any
part thereof; (5) sexual excitement, as hereinafter defined; or (6)
sadomasochist abuse as hereinafter defined.
   Sexual excitement–the facial expressions, movements, utterances or other
responses of a human male or female, whether alone or with others, whether
clothed or not, who is in an apparent state of sexual stimulation or arousal,
or experiencing the physical or sensual reactions of humans engaging in or
witnessing sexual conduct.
   Sadomasochistic abuse–flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is
nude or clad in undergarments or in a sexually revealing or bizarre costume, or
the condition of such person being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically
restrained.
(Ord. O-84-4, 7/7/1984, § 1)
§ 6-202.   Promoting Pornography.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote pornography. A person
commits the offense of promoting pornography if, knowing its contents and
character, he:
      A.   Disseminates or causes to be disseminated any pornographic material
in or from a public place or vehicle, or for valuable consideration; or has in
his possession any pornographic material with intent to so disseminate; or
knowingly allows the use of any business, building, vehicle or place owned,
leased, conducted or managed by him, for such dissemination of pornographic
material.
      B.   Sells an admission ticket, or pass, to premises where there is being
exhibited or is about to be exhibited material or a performance which is
pornographic.
      C.   Admits, by accepting a ticket or pass, a person to premises where
there is being exhibited or is about to be exhibited material or a performance
which is pornographic.
      D.   Produces, presents, directs, or knowingly allows the use of any
business, building, vehicle, or place, owned, leased, conducted or managed by
him to be used for, a pornographic performance before an audience.
      E.   Participates in that portion of a live performance before an
audience which makes it pornographic.
      F.   Panders, displays publicly, or disseminates door-to-door, any
pornographic material or performance, or causes such pandering, public display
or door-to-door dissemination.
   2.   For the purpose of this Section, possession of two or more identical
copies of any pornographic material by any person engaged in the business of
disseminating material, as defined above, shall be prima facie-evidence of
possession with intent to disseminate for valuable consideration.
(Ord. O-84-4, 7/7/1984, § 2)
§ 6-203.   Promoting Pornography for Minors.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote pornography for minors.
A person commits the offense of promoting pornography for minors if, knowing
its content and character, he:
      A.   Disseminates or causes to be disseminated to a minor material which
is pornography for minors, or knowingly allows the use of any business,
building, vehicle, or place owned, leased, conducted or managed by him for the
dissemination to a minor of material which is pornography for minors.
      B.   Exhibits to a minor a motion picture film or other performance which
is pornography for minors.
      C.   Sells to a minor an admission ticket or pass to any building,
vehicle, or place where there is being exhibited, or is about to be exhibited,
a motion picture film or other performance which is pornography for minors.
      D.   Admits a minor to any building, vehicle, or place where there is
being exhibited, or is about to be exhibited, a motion picture film or other
performance which is pornography for minors.
      E.   Knowingly produces, presents, directs, or allows the use of any
business, building, vehicle, or place owned, leased, conducted, or managed by
him for the presentation of performance which is pornography for minors, before
an audience which includes a minor.
      F.   Displays publicly or disseminates door-to-door any material or
performance which is pornography for minors, or causes such public display or
door-to-door dissemination.
   2.   Subsections .1.A through .1.E do not apply to a parent, guardian, or
other person in loco parentis to the minor.
(Ord. O-84-4, 7/7/1984, § 3)
§ 6-204.   Defenses.
   It shall be an affirmative defense to a prosecution under §§
6-202 or
6-203 of this Part if the pornographic material was disseminated by a person
who was acting in his capacity as:
      A.   A teacher of an accredited course of study related to pornography at
a State approved educational institution.
      B.   A licensed medical practitioner or psychologist in the treatment of
a patient.
      C.   A participant in the criminal justice system, such as a legislator,
judge, prosecutor, law enforcement official or other similar or related
position.
      D.   A supplier to any person described in paragraphs .A through .C
above.
(Ord. O-84-4, 7/7/1984, § 4)
§ 6-205.   Penalties.
   1.   Fines. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision
of the Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each Section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense. [Ord. 02-08]
   2.   Injunction. The Township of West Wheatfield may institute proceedings
in equity in the Court of Common Pleas of Indiana County for the purpose of
enjoining the sales, resale, lending, distribution, exhibit, gift, or show of
any pornographic literature, book, magazine, pamphlet, newspaper, story-paper,
paper, comic book, writing, drawing, photograph, figure or image, or any
written or printed matter of a pornographic nature, or any article or
instrument of a pornographic nature, as pornographic, pornography, and
pornography for minors, are defined in §
6-201 of this Part, and for such purposes jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon
said court. A preliminary injunction may issue and a hearing thereafter be held
thereon in conformity with the Rules of Civil Procedure upon the averment of
the Supervisors of West Wheatfield Township that the sale, resale, lending,
distribution, exhibit, gift, or show of such pornographic publication
constitutes a danger to the welfare or peace of the community.
(Ord. O-84-4, 7/7/1984, § 5; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Chapter 7
Emergency Management
Part 1
United EMA District Ordinance
   §
7-101.   Title
   §
7-102.   Parties and Purpose
   §
7-103.   Conditions of the Agreement
   §
7-104.   Registration with the County
Part 1
United EMA District Ordinance
§ 7-101.   Title.
   This Part shall be known as the United EMA District Ordinance.
(Ord. 01-10, 7/12/2010, § 1)
§ 7-102.   Parties and Purpose.
   The Township of West Wheatfield, hereby resolves to enter into an
intergovernmen tal cooperation agreement with the Borough of Armagh and the
Townships of Brush Valley, Buffington, and East Wheatfield, and such other
municipalities as would desire to enter into an intergovernmental cooperation
agreement in the future, and hereby agrees that United EMA District Plan will
serve as the emergency operations plan for each municipality that signs the
intergovernmental cooperation agreement.
(Ord. 01-10, 7/12/2010, § 2)
§ 7-103.   Conditions of the Agreement.
   The conditions of the intergovernmental cooperation agreement to be entered
into between the participating municipalities and the county are described as
follows:
      A.   The Municipalities agree that they shall adopt and declare the joint
emergency operations plan to be the emergency operations plan of each of their
municipalities for the purpose of fulfilling the requirement in § 7303(1) of
the emergency management services code to prepare, maintain and keep current a
Disaster Emergency Management Plan for each of their municipalities.
      B.   Each municipality’s emergency management coordinator shall annually
review the joint emergency operation plan and recommend changes, improvements,
or additional information to the plan in order to ensure that the plan
adequately addresses the public safety and welfare needs of each municipality's
residents.
(Ord. 01-10, 7/12/2010, § 3)
§ 7-104.   Registration with the County.
   A copy of this Part shall be filed with the Indiana County Emergency
Management Agency and shall remain in effect unless amended. Any amendments
shall also be filed with the Indiana County Emergency Management Coordinator.
(Ord. 01-10, 7/12/2010, § 4)
Chapter 7
[Reserved]
Chapter 8
[Reserved]
Chapter 9
[Reserved]
Chapter 10
Health and Safety
Part 1
Noise
   §
10-101.   Findings
   §
10-102.   Prohibited
   §
10-103.   Violations
   §
10-104.   Penalties
Part 1
Noise
§ 10-101.   Findings.
   The making and creation of loud, unnecessary or unusual noises within the
limits of the Township of West Wheatfield is a condition which has existed for
some time and the extent and volume of such noise is increasing.
(Ord. O-68-2, 8/24/1968, § 1)
§ 10-102.   Prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the Township.
(Ord. O-68-2, 8/24/1968, § 2)
§ 10-103.   Violations.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of this Part, but said enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      A.   Horns, Signaling Devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or other means of conveyance within
the limits of the Township except as a danger warning; the creation by means of
such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding
of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time. The use
of any signaling device except one operated by hand or by electricity; the use
of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of
any signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up.
      B.   Racing Motors. The unnecessary or unnatural acceleration,
deceleration or racing of motors in motor vehicles, whether in motion or at
rest, within the limits of said Township.
      C.   Exhausts. The discharge upon the open air of the exhaust of any
steam or diesel locomotive, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat
or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises there from.
      D.   Yelling, Shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7
a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of persons in any school, church, or office, or in any dwelling, hotel,
or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
      E.   Animals, Birds, etc. The keeping of any animal or bird which by
causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of
any persons in the vicinity.
(Ord. O-68-2, 8/24/1968, § 3)
§ 10-104.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
anc costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each Section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated after notice to desist shall have been given shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-68-2, 8/24/1968, § 4; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Chapter 11
[Reserved]
Chapter 12
[Reserved]
Chapter 13
[Reserved]
Chapter 14
[Reserved]
Chapter 15
Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Part 1
General Regulations
   §
15-101.   Definitions and Interpretation
   §
15-102.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations
   §
15-103.   Provisions to Be Continuation of Existing Regulations
   §
15-104.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations
   §
15-105.   Experimental Regulations
   §
15-106.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction, Maintenance
or Special Events
   §
15-107.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages
   §
15-108.   Authority to Direct Traffic
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
   §
15-201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Streets
   §
15-202.   One-way Roadways Established
   §
15-203.   Turning at Certain Intersections Prohibited or Restricted
   §
15-204.   Right Turns Prohibited at Certain Intersections
   §
15-205.   U-turns Prohibited at Certain Locations
   §
15-206.   No Passing Zones Established
   §
15-207.   Through Highways Established
   §
15-208.   Stop Intersections Established
   §
15-209.   Yield Intersections Established
   §
15-210.   Operation of Motor Vehicles Restricted on Public Lands
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight, and Type of Vehicle and Load
   §
15-301.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges
   §
15-302.   Restrictions on Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets and Bridges
   §
15-303.   Restrictions as to Weight and Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets and
Bridges
   §
15-304.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Streets
Part 4
General Parking Regulations
   §
15-401.   Vehicles to Be Parked Within Marked Spaces
   §
15-402.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations
   §
15-403.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations, Certain Days and Hours
   §
15-404.   Parking of Trucks, Buses and Certain Other Vehicles Prohibited in
Certain Locations
   §
15-405.   Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations Certain Days and Hours
   §
15-406.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise
Prohibited
   §
15-407.   Standing or Parking on Roadway for Loading or Unloading
   §
15-408.   Penalties
Part 5
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
   §
15-501.   Applicability and Scope
   §
15-502.   Authority to Remove and Impound
   §
15-503.   Tow Away Zones Designated
   §
15-504.   Designation of Approved Storage Garages; Bonding; Towing and Storage
   §
15-505.   Payment of Towing and Storage Charges
   §
15-506.   Reclamation Costs
   §
15-507.   Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded
   §
15-508.   Restrictions upon Removal of Vehicles
   §
15-509.   Penalty for Violation
   §
15-510.   Reports and Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles
Part 6
Snow and Ice Emergency
   §
15-601.   Declaration of Snow and Ice Emergency
   §
15-602.   Parking Prohibited, Driving Motor Vehicles Restricted on Snow
Emergency Routes During Emergency
   §
15-603.   Snow Emergency Routes Designated
   §
15-604.   Penalty for Violation
Part 7
Regulation of Pedalcycles and Non-motorized Vehicles
   §
15-701.   Riding and Parking of Pedalcycles on Sidewalks along Certain Streets
Prohibited
   §
15-702.   Restrictions on Use of Pushcarts
   §
15-703.   Skates, Skateboards, Coasters, Sled, and Other Toy Vehicles
Part 1
General Regulations
§ 15-101.   Definitions and Interpretations.
   1.   Words and phrases, when used in this Chapter, except for Sections or
parts to which different or additional definitions apply, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa. C.S.A. § 101 et seq.,
except that in this Chapter the word “street” may be used interchangeably with
the word “highway,” and shall have the same meaning as the word “highway” as
defined in the Vehicle Code.
   2.   The term “legal holidays” as used in this Chapter shall mean and
include:  New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   3.   In this Chapter, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-102.   Manner of Adopting Permanent Traffic and Parking Regulations.
   All traffic and parking regulations of a permanent nature shall be enacted
as ordinances, as parts of ordinances, as amendments to ordinances, or as
amendments to this Chapter, except where the law specifically authorizes less
formal action.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-103.   Provisions to Be Continuation of Existing Regulations.
   The provisions of this Chapter, so far as they are the same as those of
ordinances and regulations in force immediately before the enactment of this
Chapter, are intended as a continuation of those earlier ordinances and
regulations, and not as new enactments.  Nothing in this Chapter shall affect
any act done or liability incurred, or any suit or prosecution pending or to be
instituted under any of those repealed or superseded ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-104.   Temporary and Emergency Regulations.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors or their designee shall have the following
powers to regulate traffic and parking temporarily and in time of emergency:
      A.   In the case of fire, flood, storm, or other emergency, to establish
temporary traffic and/or parking regulations.
      B.   In the case of emergency or to facilitate public works, or in the
conduct of parades, processions or public events, to restrict or prohibit
traffic and/or parking in limited areas for periods of not more than 72 hours.
   2.   Such temporary and emergency regulations shall be enforced by the
Police Department in the same manner as permanent regulations. Any person who
shall operate or park a vehicle or tractor in violation of any such regulation,
or who shall, move, remove, destroy, injure or deface any sign or marking
erected, posted or made to give notice of any such regulation, shall upon
conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere
in this Chapter for a violation of such nature and, in case of a violation for
which no specific penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter,
to a fine of not more than $25 together with costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-105.   Experimental Regulations.
   The Township may, from time to time by resolution, designate places upon and
along the highways in the Township where, for a period of not more than 90
days, specific traffic and/or parking regulations, prohibitions and
restrictions shall be in force and effect, and shall designate such locations
by proper signs and markings. Such regulations, prohibitions, and restrictions
shall be effective as if they had been specified in this Chapter. No person
shall operate and no person shall move, remove, destroy or deface any sign or
marking erected, posted or made by authority of this Section. Any person who
shall violate any provision of this Section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to the penalty set forth in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter for a
violation of such nature and, in case of a violation for which no specific
penalty is set forth in the law or elsewhere in this Chapter, to a fine of not
more than $25 together with costs of prosecution; provided, the purpose of this
Section is to allow for test and experimental determination of the feasibility
and desirability of permanent changes in the ordinances of the Township
relative to traffic and parking.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-106.   Traffic on Streets Closed or Restricted for Construction,
Maintenance, or Special Events.
   1.   The Township shall have authority to close any street or specific part
of a street to vehicular traffic and to place barriers or station police
officers at each end of the closed portion while construction or maintenance
work is under way or a special event is being conducted on the closed portion.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle upon any such closed
portion.
   2.   The Township shall have authority to establish a restricted traffic
area upon any street where construction or maintenance work is under way and to
station flagmen at each end of the restricted portion. It shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle upon any such restricted traffic area at any time
when the flagman is displaying a sign directing that vehicle to stop, or is
signaling that vehicle, by a flag or other device, not to proceed.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-107.   Use of Streets by Processions and Assemblages.
   1.   For the purpose of this Section, the words “assemblage” and
“procession” shall have the following meanings:
   Assemblage–a gathering of people without vehicles, which interferes with the
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any street.
   Procession–a group of individuals, vehicles, animals, and/or objects moving
along a street in a way that interferes with the normal movement of traffic. A
procession shall not include a funeral caravan or military convoy.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
assemblage unless the person organizing or conducting the assemblage first
obtains a permit from the Board of Supervisors or their designee, which shall
be issued without fee. Application for the permit shall be made at least 1 week
in advance of the day on which the assemblage is proposed to be held, but in
any case where a State-designated highway is proposed to be used, application
shall be made at least 3 weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit
shall state the place where and the date when the assemblage is to be held, the
hour when the assemblage may convene and the hour by which it shall have been
completely dispersed. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or to
participate in any assemblage unless the permit has been granted, or at any
time or place other than that authorized by the permit.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or participate in any
procession unless the person organizing or conducting the procession first
obtains a permit from the Board of Supervisors or their designee, which shall
be issued without fee. Application for the permit shall be made at least 2
weeks in advance of the day when the procession is proposed to be held, but in
any case where the State-designated highway is proposed to be used, application
shall be made at least 3 weeks in advance of the proposed date. The permit
shall specify the date on which the procession is to be held, the route to be
followed by the procession, the hour when and place where participants may
commence to assemble and form before the procession is under way, the time when
the procession may commence to move along its route, and the time by which the
end of the procession shall have been disbanded. It shall be unlawful for any
person to hold or to participate in any procession unless the permit shall have
been granted, or under any conditions as to time or route or otherwise than
those stated in the permit.
   4.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-108.   Authority to Direct Traffic.
   The persons as may be designated by the Board of Supervisors from time to
time are hereby authorized to direct traffic on the highways of the Township
and at intersections thereof and to otherwise enforce the provisions of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 2
Traffic Regulations
§ 15-201.   Maximum Speed Limits Established on Certain Streets.
   1.   Maximum speed limits are established on portions of specified streets,
as follows, and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on any
part of a street where a maximum speed limit applies at a higher speed than the
maximum prescribed for that part of the street:
 
Street                     Between                     Maximum Speed Limit
Jericho Road, Twp Road 606 Traffic Route 259 and State 25 mph
                           Route 2008
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $35 and costs. Any person exceeding
the maximum speed limit by more than 5 miles per hour shall pay an additional
fine of $2 per mile for each mile in excess of 5 miles per hour over the
maximum speed limit.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-202.   One-way Roadways Established.
   1.   The following are established as one-way roadways, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on any one-way street other than in
the direction established for traffic on that street:
 
Street From To Direction of Travel
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-203.   Turning at Certain Intersections Prohibited or Restricted.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle of the type
indicated traveling upon the first-named street at any of the following
intersections, in the direction or directions indicated in each case, to make a
left turn and/or a right turn into the second- named street, as indicated, at
any time when such a turn is prohibited by this Section:
 
Vehicles Traveling Direction of Not to Make Turn Into When Type of Vehicle
On                 Travel                                  Applicable To
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-204.   Right Turns Prohibited at Certain Intersections.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle traveling upon the
first-named street at any of the following intersections, in the direction or
directions indicated in each case, to make other than a left turn, at any time
stated, both right turns and straight-across traffic being prohibited:
 
Vehicles Traveling On Direction of Travel Times Not To Make Right Turn Into or
                                                Travel Straight Across
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-205.   U-turns Prohibited at Certain Locations.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle traveling upon any
of the following portions of streets, in the direction or directions indicated
for that street, to make a U-turn:
 
Street Portion Direction of Travel
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-206.   No Passing Zones Established.
   1.   The following are established as no passing zones, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to overtake or pass another vehicle or
to drive on the left side of the roadway in any no passing zone:
 
Street Direction of Travel Between
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-207.   Through Highways Established.
   1.   The following highways are established as through highways, thus
authorizing stop or yield signs to be erected facing traffic approaching every
intersection with the through highway except for those intersections with
traffic signals, or with exceptions or modifications as indicated below. Every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop or yield sign authorized by this Section
shall stop the vehicle or yield right-of-way as required by 75 Pa.C.S.A. § §
3323(b), 3323(c) of the Vehicle Code, as the case may be, and shall not proceed
into or across the through highway until he has followed all applicable
requirements of that Section of the law:
 
Highway Between
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-208.   Stop Intersections Established.
   1.   The following intersections (in addition to intersections with the
through highways established by §
15-207) are established as stop intersections, and official stop signs shall be
erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to face
traffic approaching the second-named street (the intersecting or through
street) on the first-named street (the stop street) in the direction or
directions indicated for that intersection. Every driver of a vehicle
approaching the intersection on the first-named or stop street, in the
direction indicated in each case, shall stop the vehicle as required by of the
Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § § 3323(b), and shall not proceed into or across
the second-named or intersecting or through street until he has followed all
applicable requirements of that Section of the law.
 
Stop Street Intersecting or Through Street Direction of Travel
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-209.   Yield Intersections Established.
   1.   The following intersections (in addition to intersections with the
through highways established by §
15-207) are established as yield intersections, and official yield signs shall
be erected (or are ratified if previously erected) in such a position as to
face traffic approaching the second-named street (the through street) on the
first- named street (the yield street) in the direction or directions indicated
for that intersection. Every driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection
on the first-named or yield street, in the direction indicated in each case,
shall slow down or stop the vehicle as required by 75 Pa.C.S.A. § § 3323(c) of
the Vehicle Code, and then yield the right-of-way as required by that
subsection of the Vehicle Code.
 
Yield Street Through Street Direction of Travel
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-210.   Operation of Motor Vehicles Restricted on Public Lands.
   1.   No motor vehicle including a motorcycle, pedalcycle or minibike shall
be operated on any property owned by the Township or any other public agency or
instrumentality within the Township without the permission of the property
owner and a permit from the Board of Supervisors or their designee of the
Township.
   2.   Any person who violates an provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 3
Restrictions on Size, Weight, and Type of Vehicle and Load
§ 15-301.   Vehicle Weight Limits Established on Certain Streets and Bridges.
   1.   On the following bridges and streets or parts of streets, by authority
granted by § 4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a), it shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to drive any vehicle or combination having a
gross weight in excess of the maximum prescribed below for that bridge or
street or part of street, as the case may be:
Street or Bridge Between Maximum Gross Weight
Street or Bridge            Between                      Maximum Gross Weight
Bethel Cemetery Road (T-    from Clay Pike Road (T-841)  20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
716)                        to Traffic Route 0022
Clawson Road (T-850)        from State Route 2008 to     20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
                            State Route 2011
Crawford Road( (T-708)      from State Route 2008 to     20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
                            Clawson Road (T-850)
Hood Road (T-603)           from State Route 2011 to     20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
                            Gamble Road (T-605)
Shady Grove Road (T-803)    from Traffic Route 0022 to   20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
                            Traffic Route 0022
Township Road T-603 (Hood   from State Route 2011 to
Road)                       Township Road T605 (Gamble   20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
                            Road)
Township Road T-708         from State Route 2008 to
(Crawford Road)             Township Road T-850 (Clawson 20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
                            Road)
Township Road T-716 (Bethel from Township Road T841
Cemetery Road)              (Clay Pike Road) to Traffic  20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
                            Route 0022
Township Road T-803 (Shady  from Traffic Route 0022 to   20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
Grove Road)                 Traffic Route 0022
Township Road T-850         from State Route 2008 to     20,000 lbs. or 10 tons
(Clawson Road)              State Route 2011
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(a) and 4902(g-1) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
4902(a), 4902(g-1)  and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
$150 plus $150 for each 500 pounds, or part thereof, in excess of 3,000 pounds
over the maximum allowable weight, and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-302.   Restrictions on Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets and Bridges.
   1.   On the following bridges and streets or parts of streets, by authority
granted by § 4902(a) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 4902(a), it shall be
unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle or combination in violation of the
size restrictions prescribed below for that bridge or street or part of street:
 
Street or Bridge Between Restrictions
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(a) and 4902(g)(1) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
4902(a), 4902(g)(1) and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
$75 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-303.   Restrictions as to Weight and Size of Vehicles on Certain Streets
and Bridges.
   1.   By reason of hazardous traffic conditions and other safety factors, by
authority granted by § 4902(b) of the Vehicle Code 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§ 4902(b), it
shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle or combination in
violation of the restriction prescribed below for that bridge or street or part
of street.
 
Street or Bridge Between Restrictions
   [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be
prosecuted under §§ 4902(b) and 4902(g)(1) of the Vehicle Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. §§
4902(a), 4902(g)(1) and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced to pay a fine of
not less than $25 and not more than $100 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-304.   Truck Traffic Restricted on Certain Streets.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle other than a
passenger car on any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Street Between
   [Reserved]
 
   Provided, nothing in this Section shall prohibit any person from driving an
emergency vehicle on any of those streets or parts of streets, or from driving
on any of those streets or parts of streets a truck or other commercial vehicle
making local deliveries to or pickups from premises located along that street
or part of a street.
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 4
General Parking Regulations
§ 15-401.   Vehicles to Be Parked Within Marked Spaces.
   Wherever a space is marked off on any street for the parking of an
individual vehicle, every vehicle parked there shall be parked wholly within
the lines bounding that space, and it shall be a violation of this Part for any
person to park a vehicle or allow it to remain parked otherwise.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-402.   Parking Prohibited at All Times in Certain Locations.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times in the following locations:
 
Street Side Between
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-403.   Parking Prohibited in Certain Locations, Certain Days and Hours.
   Parking shall be prohibited in the following locations at all times on the
days and between the hours indicated in this Section, as follows:
 
Street Side Between Days Hours
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-404.   Parking of Trucks, Buses and Certain Other Vehicles Prohibited in
Certain Locations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to allow to remain parked,
on any of the following streets or parts of streets any vehicle other than a
passenger car (which shall not include any bus, motor home or passenger car
attached to a trailer of any kind):
 
Street Between
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-405.   Parking Time Limited in Certain Locations Certain Days and Hours.
   No person shall park a vehicle, or allow it to remain parked, for longer
than the time indicated, in any of the following locations, at any time on the
days and between the hours indicated:
 
Street Side Between Days Hours
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-406.   Special Purpose Parking Zones Established; Parking Otherwise
Prohibited.
   The following are established as special purpose parking zones, and it shall
be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to allow it to remain parked in
any such zone except as specifically provided for that zone:
 
Street Side Location Authorized Purpose or Vehicle
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-407.   Standing or Parking on Roadway for Loading or Unloading.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle (other
than a pedalcycle) on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of any street, except that standing or parking for the purpose of
loading or unloading persons or property shall be permitted on the following
named streets on Monday through Saturday, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 11:30
a.m. and between the hours of 1:30 p.m. and 4 p.m., and for no longer than
necessary for the loading or unloading.
 
Street Side Between
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-408.   Penalties.
   Any person who violates any provision of this Part shall, upon conviction,
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $15 and costs. Provided, it shall
be the duty of the police officers and of parking enforcement personnel of the
Township to report to the appropriate official all violations of any provision
of this Part indicating, in each case, the Section violated; the license number
of the vehicle involved in the violation; the location where the violation took
place; and any other facts that might be necessary in order to secure a clear
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation. The police officer
or other person making the report shall also attach to or place upon every such
vehicle a notice stating that the vehicle was parked in violation of this Part.
The notice shall contain instructions to the owner or driver of the vehicle
that if he will report to the office of the Chief of Police and pay the sum of
$_____ within _____ hours after the time of the notice, or if he will place the
sum of $_____ enclosed within the envelope provided in any of the special
parking fine boxes installed at various locations within the Township that act
will save the violator from prosecution and from payment of the fine and costs
prescribed in the first sentence of this Section.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 5
Removal and Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
§ 15-501.   Applicability and Scope.
   This Part is enacted under authority of § 6109(a)(22) of the Vehicle Code,
75 Pa.C.S.A. § 6109(a)(22), and gives authority to the Township to remove and
impound those vehicles which are parked in a tow-away zone and in violation of
parking regulations of this Chapter. Vehicles which have been abandoned (as
defined by the Vehicle Code) or which are parked in such a manner as to
interfere with traffic or pose a hazard to others may be towed under the
provisions of the Pennsylvania Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-502.   Authority to Remove and Impound.
   The Township shall have authority to remove and impound, or to order the
removal and impounding, of any vehicle parked overtime or otherwise illegally;
provided that the circumstances of its parking were within the conditions
stated in § 15-801. Provided, no such vehicle shall be removed or impounded
except in strict adherence to the provisions of this Part or the provisions of
the Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-503.   Tow Away Zones Designated.
   The following designated streets and/or parking lots are hereby established
as tow- away zones. Signs shall be posted to place the public on notice that
their vehicles may be towed for violation of Township parking regulations:
 
Street Side Between Parking Lot
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-504.   Designation of Approved Storage Garages; Bonding; Towing and
Storage.
   Removal and impounding of vehicles under this Part shall be done only by
“approved storage garages” that shall be designated from time to time by the
Township. Every such garage shall submit evidence to the Township that it is
bonded or has acquired liability insurance in an amount satisfactory to the
Township as sufficient to indemnify owners of impounded vehicles against loss
or damage to those vehicles while in the custody of the garage keeper for the
purpose of towing or storage. The approved storage garage shall submit to the
Township its schedule of charges for towing and storage of vehicles under this
Part and, when the schedule is approved by the Township, those charges shall be
adhered to by the approved storage garage; no different schedule of charges
shall be demanded of or collected from any person whose vehicle is removed or
impounded under this Part by any approved storage garage. The Township shall
delete from its list of approved storage garages any garage that makes any
unapproved charge in connection with any vehicle removed or impounded under
this Part.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-505.   Payment of Towing and Storage Charges.
   The payment of towing and storage charges shall not relieve the owner or
driver of any vehicle from liability for any fine or penalty for the violation
of the provision of this Part for which the vehicle was removed or impounded.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-506.   Reclamation Costs.
   In order to reclaim his vehicle, the owner shall pay towing and storage
costs plus a $50 fee, of which $25 shall be transferred to the Pennsylvania
Department of Transportation by the garage to which the vehicle was taken.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-507.   Records of Vehicles Removed and Impounded.
   The Township shall cause a record to be kept of all vehicles impounded under
this Part and shall be able at all reasonable times to furnish the owners or
the agents of the owners of those vehicles with information as to the place of
storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-508.   Restrictions upon Removal of Vehicles.
   No vehicle shall be removed under the authority of this Part or the Vehicle
Code if, at the time of the intended removal, the owner or the person for the
time being in charge of the vehicle is present and expresses a willingness and
intention to remove the vehicle immediately.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-509.   Penalty For Violation.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this Part shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of $50 together with all costs
of disposing of the vehicle under the provisions of the Vehicle Code, 75 P.S. §
7301 et seq.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-510.   Reports and Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles.
   If after a period of 15 days the vehicle in storage remains unclaimed, a
report shall be filed with PennDOT in accordance with § 7311 of The Vehicle
Code, 75 Pa.C.S.A. § 7311 by the person having legal custody of the vehicle. 
If the vehicle has not been claimed after 30 days, the vehicle may be
transferred to a licensed salvor who will then be responsible for filing the
proper reports and disposing of the vehicle in accordance with the provisions
of Chapter 73 of the Vehicle Code (75 Pa C.S.A. § 7301 et seq.).
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 6
Snow and Ice Emergency
§ 15-601.   Declaration of Snow and Ice Emergency.
   In order to facilitate the movement of traffic and to combat the hazards of
snow and ice on the snow emergency routes named in § 15-903 of this Part, the
Board of Supervisors or their designee, in his discretion, may declare a snow
and ice emergency (designated in this Part as a “snow emergency”). Information
on the existence of a snow emergency shall be given by the Township through
radio, newspaper, or other available media, and information on the termination
of the emergency may be given by use of the same media.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-602.   Parking Prohibited, Driving Motor Vehicles Restricted on Snow
Emergency Routes During Emergency.
   After any snow emergency is declared, it shall be unlawful at any time
during the continuance of the emergency for any person:
      A.   To park a motor vehicle or to allow that vehicle to remain parked
anywhere on any snow emergency route designated in §
15-603.
      B.   To drive any motor vehicle on any such snow emergency route unless
that vehicle is equipped with snow tires or chains.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-603.   Snow Emergency Routes Designated.
   The following are designated as snow emergency routes:
 
Street Between
   [Reserved]
 
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-604.   Penalty for Violation.
   1.   If, at any time during a period of snow emergency declared under §
15-601 of this Part, a person shall park a motor vehicle or allow a motor
vehicle to remain parked anywhere upon a snow emergency route, that person
shall be guilty of a violation of this Part and, upon conviction, shall be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $15  and costs.
   2.   If, at any time during a period of snow emergency declared under §
15-601 of this Part, a person shall drive a motor vehicle upon a snow emergency
route, without having that vehicle equipped with snow tires or chains, that
person shall be guilty of a violation of this Part, and, upon conviction, shall
be sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 7
Regulation of Pedalcycles and Non-motorized Vehicles.
§ 15-701.   Riding and Parking of Pedalcycles on Sidewalks Along Certain
Streets Prohibited.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or to park a pedalcycle on
the sidewalk along the following portions of the streets in the Township:
 
Street Side          Between
          [Reserved]
 
   2.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-702.   Restrictions on Use of Pushcarts.
   1.   The word “pushcart,” as used in this Section, shall mean a vehicle,
including a pedalcycle, propelled solely by human power, and used or intended
for use for the display, transport, exhibit or sale of goods, wares or
merchandise.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to propel a pushcart upon any
sidewalk in any business district except as necessary to move the pushcart to a
location from which it is to be loaded or unloaded or from which goods, wares
or merchandise are to be sold or dispensed under permit from the Township as
provided in subsection .3 of this Section.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a pushcart upon any
sidewalk except for the purpose of selling or dispensing from that pushcart
goods, wares or merchandise to passersby under permit from the Township. Every
such permit shall be issued to the person making application for the permit,
upon payment of a fee, which shall be for the use of the Township set by the
Township by resolution. The permit shall be granted to the applicant, upon
payment of the fee, and upon the applicant signing an agreement with the
Township that he shall be bound by the conditions imposed by Township and made
a part of the permit, dealing with the following matters:
      A.   Restricting or limiting the parking of the pushcart to one or more
stated locations upon the sidewalk and to stated days and hours at each
location.
      B.   Stating requirements to be adhered to in connection with the
disposal of garbage and refuse resulting from the operations carried on.
      C.   Requiring that there be no violation of any law, ordinance, or
regulation pertaining to health, sanitation, and the handling of food or drink.
   4.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section, or any condition
of any permit granted under this Section, upon conviction, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of $25 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 15-703.   Skates, Skateboards, Coasters, Sleds, and Other Toy Vehicles.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on a sled upon any sidewalk
in the Township, or upon any roadway unless that roadway is on a portion of a
street blocked off for sledding by authority of §
15-105. Provided, nothing in this subsection shall prevent a pedestrian from
pulling a sled, with or without a rider, upon a sidewalk.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in roller-skating,
skateboarding or to ride upon or propel any coaster or other toy vehicle upon:
      A.   Any street except in order to cross the roadway.
      B.   Any sidewalk located in a business district, except that nothing in
this subsection shall prevent a pedestrian from pulling a coaster or other toy
vehicle, with or without a rider, upon a sidewalk.
   3.   Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be sentenced to pay a fine of $5 and costs.
(Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Chapter 16
[Reserved]
Chapter 17
[Reserved]
Chapter 18
Sewers and Sewage Disposal
Part 1
Mandatory Sewage Connection
   §
18-101.   Definitions
   §
18-102.   Use of Public Sewers Required
   §
18-103.   Building Sewers and Connections
   §
18-104.   Rules and Regulations Governing Building Sewers and Connections to
Sewers
   §
18-105.   Enforcement
Part 2
On-Lot Systems
A.   Holding Tanks
   §
18-201.   Use and Maintenance
B.   Conventional Systems
   §
18-211.   Permits for Individuals and Community Sewage Disposal System
Part 3
Land Application of Sewage Sludge
   §
18-301.   Authorization
   §
18-302.   Definitions
   §
18-303.   Procedure
   §
18-304.   Standards
   §
18-305.   Determination by the Board of Supervisors
   §
18-306.   Sludge Disposal Area Map
   §
18-307.   Bonds
   §
18-308.   Insurance
Part 4
Indiana County Sewage Enforcement Agency
   §
18-401.   Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement
   §
18-402.   Agreement Provisions
   §
18-403.   Violations and Penalties
Part 1
Mandatory Sewage Connection
§ 18-101.   Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically and clearly indicates otherwise, the meaning
of terms and phrases used in this Part shall be as follows:
   Authority–the Tri-Community Water and Sewer Authority, a municipality
authority incorporated pursuant to provisions of the Municipality Authorities
Act of 1945, approved May 2, 1945, P.L. 382, as amended and supplemented, of
the Commonwealth.
   Building sewer–the extension from the sewage drainage system of any
structure to the lateral of a sewer.
   Commonwealth–the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Improved property–any property within this Township upon which there is
erected a structure intended for continuous or periodic habitation, occupancy
or use by human beings or animals and from which structure sanitary sewage and/
or industrial wastes shall be or may be discharged.
   Industrial establishment–any improved property located within this Township
and used or intended for use, wholly or in part, for the manufacturing,
processing, cleaning, laundering, or assembling of any product, commodity, or
article, or any other improved property located in this Township from which
wastes, in addition to or other than sanitary sewage, shall be discharged.
   Industrial wastes–any and all wastes discharged from any industrial
establishment, other than sanitary sewage.
   Lateral–that part of the sewer system extending from a sewer to the curb
line or, if no such lateral shall be provided, then “lateral” shall mean that
portion of, or place in, a sewer which is provided for connection of any
building sewer.
   Owner–any person vested with ownership, legal or equitable, sole or partial,
of any improved property.
   Person–any individual, partnership, company, association, society, trust,
corporation, municipality, municipality authority, or other group or entity.
   Sanitary sewage–normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from any
improved property.
   Sewer–any pipe or conduit constituting a part of the sewer system used or
usable for sewage collection purposes.
   Sewer system–all facilities, as of any particular time, for collecting,
pumping, transmitting, treating, and disposing of sanitary sewage and/or
industrial wastes, situate in or adjacent to the incorporating municipalities
of the Authority, including this Township, and owned by the Authority.
   Street–shall include any street, road, lane, court, cul-de-sac, alley,
public way, or public square.
   Township–the Township of West Wheatfield, Indiana County, Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, a township of the second class of the Commonwealth of Pennsylva
nia acting by and through its Board of Supervisors or, in specific instances,
granted to the Authority to act as an authorized representative of the Township
on its behalf. [Ord. O-01-2-91]
(Ord. O-84-3, 2/4/1984, § 1; as amended by Ord. O-01-2-91, 2/10/1992)
§ 18-102.   Use of Public Sewers Required.
   1.   The owner of any improved property accessible to and whose principal
building is within 150 feet from the sewer system shall connect such improved
property with and shall use such sewer system, in such manner as this Township
may require, within 60 days after notice to such owner from this Township to
make such connection, for the purpose of discharge of all sanitary sewage and
industrial wastes from such improved property; subject, however, to such
limitations and restrictions as shall be established herein or otherwise shall
be established by this Township, from time to time.
   2.   All sanitary sewage and industrial wastes from any improved property,
after connection of such improved property with a sewer shall be required under
subsection .1, shall be conducted into a sewer; subject, however, to such
limitations and restrictions as shall be established herein or otherwise shall
be established by this Township, from time to time.
   3.   No person shall place, shall deposit or shall permit to be placed or to
be deposited upon public or private property within this Township any sanitary
sewage or industrial wastes in violation of subsection .1. No person shall
discharge or shall permit to be discharged to any natural outlet within this
Township any sanitary sewage or industrial wastes in violation of subsection
.1, except where suitable treatment has been provided which is satisfactory to
this Township.
   4.   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank, or similar receptacle
shall be used or shall be maintained at any time upon any improved property
which has been connected to a sewer or which shall be required under subsection
.1 to be connected to a sewer.
   5.   No privy vault, cesspool, sinkhole, septic tank or similar receptacle
at any time shall be connected with a sewer.
   6.   The notice by this Township to make a connection to a sewer, referred
to in subsection .1, shall consist of a copy of this Part including, any
amendments and/or supplements at the time in effect, or a summary of each
section hereof, and a written or printed document requiring the connection in
accordance with the provisions of this Part and specifying that such connection
shall be made within 60 days after the date such notice is given or served.
Such notice may be given or served at any time after a sewer is in place which
can receive and can convey sanitary sewage and industrial wastes for treatment
and disposal from the particular improved property. Such notice shall be given
or served upon the owner in accordance with law.
(Ord. O-84-3, 2/4/1984, § 2)
§ 18-103.   Building Sewers and Connections.
   1.   No person shall uncover, shall connect with, shall make any opening
into or shall use, shall alter or shall disturb, in any manner, any sewer or
any part of the sewer system without first obtaining a permit, in writing, from
this Township.
   2.   Application for a permit required under subsection .1 shall be made by
the owner of the improved property served or to be served or by the duly
authorized agent of such owner.
   3.   No person shall make or shall cause to be made a connection of any
improved property with a sewer until such person shall have fulfilled each of
the following conditions:
      A.   Such person shall have notified the secretary of this Township of
the desire and intention to connect such improved property to a sewer.
      B.   Such person shall have applied for and shall have obtained a permit
as required by subsection .1.
      C.   Such person shall have given the secretary of this Township at least
24 hours notice of the time when such connection will be made so that this
Township may supervise and inspect or may cause to be supervised and inspected
the work of connection and necessary testing.
      D.   If applicable, such person shall have furnished satisfactory
evidence to the Secretary of this Township that any tapping (or connection) fee
which may be charged and imposed by the Authority against the owner of each
improved property who connects such improved property to a sewer has been paid.
   4.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, each improved property
shall be connected separately and independently with a sewer through a building
sewer. Grouping of more than one improved property on one building sewer shall
not be permitted, except under special circumstances and for good sanitary
reasons or other good cause shown, but then only after special permission of
this Township, in writing, shall have been secured and only subject to such
rules, regulations, and conditions as may be prescribed by this Township.
   5.   All costs and expenses of construction of a building sewer and all
costs and expenses of connection of a building sewer to a sewer shall be borne
by the owner of the improved property to be connected; and such owner shall
indemnify and shall save harmless this Township and the Authority from all loss
or damage that may be occasioned, directly or indirectly, as a result of
construction of a building sewer or of connection of a building sewer to a
sewer.
   6.   A building sewer shall be connected to a sewer at the place designated
by this Township or by the Authority and where, if applicable, the lateral is
provided. The invert of a building sewer at the point of connection shall be at
the same or a higher elevation than the invert of the sewer. A smooth, neat
joint shall be made and the connection of a building sewer to the lateral shall
be made secure and watertight.
   7.   If the owner of any improved property located within this Township and
accessible to and whose principal building is within 150 feet from the sewer
system, after 60 days notice from this Township, in accordance with §
18-102.1, shall fail to connect such improved property, as required, this
Township may enter upon such improved property and construct such connection
and may collect from such owner the costs and expenses thereof in the manner
permitted by law.
(Ord. O-84-3, 2/4/1984, § 3)
§ 18-104.   Rules and Regulations Governing Building Sewers and Connec tions to
Sewers.
   1.   Where an improved property, at the time connection to a sewer is
required, shall be served by its own sewage disposal system or sewage disposal
device, the existing house sewer line shall be broken on the structure side of
such sewage disposal system or sewage disposal device and attachment shall be
made, with proper fittings, to continue such house sewer line as a building
sewer.
   2.   No building sewer shall be covered until it has been inspected and
approved by this Township. If any part of a building sewer is covered before so
being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered for inspection, at the cost
and expense of the owner of the improved property to be connected to a sewer.
   3.   Every building sewer of any improved property shall be maintained in a
sanitary and safe operating condition by the owner of such improved property.
   4.   Every excavation for a building sewer shall be guarded adequately with
barricades and lights to protect all persons from damage and injury. Any
street, sidewalk and other public property disturbed in the course of
installation of a building sewer shall be restored, at the cost and expense of
the owner of the improved property being connected, in a manner satisfactory to
this Township.
   5.   If any person shall fail or shall refuse, upon receipt of a notice of
this Township or the Authority, in writing, to remedy any unsatisfactory
condition with respect to a building sewer, within 60 days of receipt of such
notice, this Township or the Authority may refuse to permit such person to
discharge sanitary sewage and industrial wastes into the sewer system until
such unsatisfactory condition shall have been remedied to the satisfaction of
this Township and the Authority.
   6.   This Township reserves the right to adopt, from time to time,
additional rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary and proper relating
to connections with a sewer and with the sewer system, which additional rules
and regulations, to the extent appropriate, shall be and shall be construed as
part of this Part.
(Ord. O-84-3, 2/4/1984, § 4)
§ 18-105.   Enforcement.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of the
Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-84-3, 2/4/1984, § 5; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Part 2
On-Lot Systems
A.   Holding Tanks
§ 18-201.   Use and Maintenance.
   1.   Holding tank permit must meet the following conditions:
      A.   Meet the planning provisions of Chapter 71.63, subsections (C), (D),
and (E), of the Sewage Facilities Act.
      B.   Meet the technical standards for construction of Chapters 73.31 and
73.62 of the Sewage Facilities Act.
      C.   Meet compliance with all applicable Municipal, County, or State
laws, rules, regulations and appropriate revisions thereof.
   2.   The permittee agrees to the following conditions:
      A.   To construct the holding tank in compliance with the technical
standards of the Sewage Facilities Act.
      B.   To maintain the holding tank in conformance with this Part,
provisions of any applicable law, and any applicable rules and regulations of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      C.   To collect, transport, and dispose of the contents only at such
sites as may be approved by the Department of Environmental Protection of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. [Ord. 02-08]
      D.   To have a written contract with a licensed hauler and to retain
pumping receipts.
      E.   To permit the municipality and its appropriate agents to inspect on
an annual basis and to pay the designated inspector fee.
      F.   To reimburse the municipality for any costs incurred in pumping,
should the tank not be properly maintained and it be deemed necessary by the
municipal inspector to pump to avert a public nuisance.
   3.   The municipality agrees to take all necessary steps to see that
compliance with this Part is achieved and that public nuisances are averted. It
also agrees to take all available legal and administrative enforcement actions
toward violators of this Part.
(Res. R-01-02-91, 2/11/1991; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
B.   Conventional Systems
§ 18-211.   Permits for Individuals and Community Sewage Disposal System.
   No person shall install an individual or community sewage disposal system,
or construct any building in West Wheatfield Township, Indiana County,
Pennsylvania, in which an individual or community sewage disposal system is to
be installed or replaced without first obtaining a permit indicating that the
site, plans, and specifica tions of such system are in compliance with Act 537,
P.L. 1535, 1965 Session, and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to said
Act. No parcel of land shall be excluded from the provisions of this Part
because of its size. A fee, to be set each year, shall be paid to the Township
administration officer at the time of making application for an individual or
community disposal system.
(Ord. O-68-1, 2/5/1968)
Part 3
Land Application of Sewage Sludge
§ 18-301.   Authorization.
   1.   This Part is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to West
Wheatfield Township by the legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in
the following duly enacted Statutes:
      A.   The Sections of the Second Class Township Code, Act of May 1, 1933,
P.L. 103, authorizing the Township to enact ordinances dealing with the
protection of the health of the Township residents, refuse materials, nuisances
and public safety, 53 P.S. § § 65708, 65712, 65729, and 65747, as amended.
      B.   The applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management
Act, Act of July 7, 1980, P.L. 380, codified in Purdons Consolidated Statutes
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania at 35 P.S. § 6018.101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 1)
§ 18-302.   Definitions.
   Disposal–the discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or
placing of any sewage sludge from a municipal or private treatment plant into
or on any land in the Township; provided that the spreading of poultry and
livestock manure generated from conventional agricultural activities on crop
land or farm land for agricultural purposes shall not be included within this
term and such activity shall not be regulated by this Part.
   Township–whenever used in this Part, the term “Township” shall refer to West
Wheatfield Township.
   Sewage sludge–as defined in Chapter 75, Page 3, of the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection, “Solid Waste Management Rules and
Regulations,” i.e., “The Coarse Screenings, Grit and Dewatered or Air Dryed
Sludges, Septic Tanks and Holdings Tank Pumping and other Residues from Sewage
Collection and Treatment Systems which Require Disposal.” [Ord. 02-08]
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 2; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 18-303.   Procedure.
   Any person, association, company, or entity wishing to apply, dispose,
spread, or deposit municipal or private sewage sludge or private residential
septic tank pumpings on any lands or property within the Township shall first
submit an application to the Township containing the following information:
      A.   A copy of its application to the Department of Environmental
Protection (DEP) for a permit. [Ord. 02-08]
      B.   Copies of any and all materials, documents, or drawings submitted
with said application to DEP. [Ord. 02-08]
      C.   A description of the proposed application program including the
sources of the sludge and how it is to be transported to the site, a time table
for application, a description of any storage operations, the proposed
utilization rate, the total acreage involved and the useful life of the
proposed site.
      D.   Topographical drawing, prepared by a registered engineer, to a scale
no greater than 1 inch to 200 feet showing:
         (1)   Location of the site relative to public roads.
         (2)   Identity of owners of adjacent properties.
         (3)   Boundaries of the area to be used for land application.
         (4)   Location of public and private water supplies, wells, springs,
streams, swamps or other bodies of water, within ¼ of 1 mile of the boundaries
of the proposed land application site.
         (5)   Soil classifications of the land application area.
         (6)   Vegetation.
      E.   A soils and geologic report indicating the physical characteristics
of the site with respect to its suitability for application of sludge. The
report shall be based on available soil survey and geologic data, and
accompanied by field test analysis. Field tests shall include:
         (1)   Soil borings by a soil scientist to confirm actual soil profile
characteris tics are consistent with published soil survey data.
         (2)   Groundwater monitoring well shall be established to test water
quality prior to, during, and after the application program. Groundwater
composition shall be included in the application, along with subsequent
quarterly monitoring during the application program. The location of the
monitoring well shall be approved by the Township Engineer prior to drilling.
In the event that groundwater is found to flow in several directions, a monitor
well for each direction shall be required.
      F.   A chemical analysis of the sludge from each proposed source. The
analysis shall be done by an independent laboratory approved by the Township
and shall involve a minimum of four samples. The analysis shall include, the
following items:
         (1)   Total moisture content.
         (2)   Percent total nitrogen (wet and dry weight).
         (3)   Percent ammonia nitrogen (wet and dry weight).
         (4)   Percent organic nitrogen (wet and dry weight).
         (5)   Biochemical oxygen demand.
         (6)   pH.
         (7)   Percent on a dry weight basis of cyanide, sodium, cadmium, zinc,
copper, nickel, lead, chromium, mercury, molydnum and other toxic substances
and enteric pathogens.
      G.   For all applications, there shall be an application fee accompanying
an application as may be determined from time to time by the Board of
Supervisors and shall be in such amounts and paid in such manner as may be
established from time to time by resolution of the Board of Supervisors. [Ord.
02-08]
      H.   A copy of the agreement between the generator of the sludge or the
hauler and applicator and the landowner showing provisions as to the term of
the agreement, the operation to be carried out in spreading sludge, and the
keeping of records.
      I.   Where the proposed applications of sludge involves a leasehold
arrange ment between the owner of the property and the party applying the
sludge, a land development plan shall be prepared and filed in accordance with
the provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipalities Planning Code.
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 3; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 18-304.   Standards.
   The standards for application of sludge to the land shall be in accordance
with the currently adopted standards of the Pennsylvania Department of
Environmental Protection as set forth in Chapter 75, Title 25, Rules and
Regulations, Department of Environmental Protection, except that the following
additional requirements shall be imposed. [Ord. 02-08]
      A.   Area. No site shall be approved which contains less than 10
contiguous acres.
      B.   Setback Requirements. Sludge shall not be applied within 500 feet of
a stream, water supplies, 50 feet of property lines and 300 feet of occupied
dwellings.
      C.   Slope Concentrations. Application shall not take place on the slopes
exceeding 15 percent.
      D.   Testing. Chemical analysis and laboratory testing of the sludge from
each source may be required by the Township at applicant’s expense by an
independent laboratory selected or approved by the Township Supervisors to
insure sludge content remains within the limits established by the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection, but shall include a minimum of four
samples a year as part of the monitoring program. [Ord. 02-08]
      E.   Soil Coverage. Waste materials so applied to the land shall be one
injected under the surface of the soil or, if spread on the surface, shall be
plowed under within 24 hours.
      F.   Soil Analysis. The soil analysis at applicant’s expense and
performed by an independent laboratory selected and approved by the Township
shall be performed semi-annually and results shall be provided immediately to
the Township.
      G.   Waste Material Storage. Waste materials shall be applied to the land
immediately upon delivery to the site and shall not under any circumstance be
stored upon the site for any purposes or for any period of time.
      H.   Waste Accumulations. Any ponding or standing accumulations of said
waste materials is expressly prohibited.
      I.   Weather Conditions. Waste materials are not to be applied when the
ground is saturated, snow covered, frozen, or during periods of rain.
      J.   Sources of Sewage Sludge. No sewage sludge shall be permitted to be
applied anywhere within the Township unless its source is from a municipal or
private treatment facility located within Indiana County, Pennsylvania.
      K.   Septic System Wastes. No dumpings from septic tank systems shall be
permitted anywhere within the Township unless its source is from a private
residential septic system located within the Township.
      L.   Records. The applicant shall maintain records of quantities, dates,
sources and location of the above described waste and shall furnish copies of
said records to the Township upon request. [Ord. 02-08]
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 4; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 18-305.   Determination by the Board of Supervisors.
   1.   The Board of Supervisors shall, within 90 days following the full
submission of the application, render a final decision and shall be official
written communication to the applicant, either:
      A.   Approve the application as presented.
      B.   Disapprove the application as presented.
      C.   Approve the application subject to specified conditions, the failure
to comply with which shall provide grounds for revocation of such approval.
   2.   Within said 90 day period, the Board of Supervisors may, in their
discretion, schedule a public hearing pursuant to public notice for the
purposes of reviewing said application and receiving the comments of the
public.
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 5)
§ 18-306.   Sludge Disposal Area Map.
   Any land within the Township which has been used for the purposes herein
above discussed, shall be designated on a map which shall be shown as the West
Wheatfield Township Disposal Area Map, which shall be available for inspection
through the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors. Any property owner whose
land has been used as herein above discussed, shall not at any time sell,
transfer, convey, or otherwise dispose of his/her said property, without first
informing any proposed purchaser, lessee, assignee, or grantee, that his/her
said land has been used for such purposes.
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 6)
§ 18-307.   Bonds.
   1.   Performance Bond. In order to assure the Township that the various
tests and duties imposed upon an applicant by this Part are fully performed,
sufficient surety for such performance shall be posted by an applicant before
issuing any permit. The applicant shall assure the Township by means of a
corporate bond or the deposit of funds or securities in escrow sufficient to
cover the cost, as estimated by the Township Engineer, of performing the
various tests and duties imposed upon him by this Part over the expected useful
life of the site plus 5 years. The bond shall be furnished under such
conditions and form and with surety as shall be approved by the Township
Solicitor to guarantee and secure that all such tests and duties are fully and
adequately performed and are paid for by the applicant and that the Township
shall, in no event, be held liable for the cost of any such duties or tests. In
lieu of a bond, the applicant may deposit cash or securities with the Township
or a bank or trust company to guarantee and secure the same requirements as set
forth above in the event that such cash or securities are deposited, said
deposit must be made pursuant to an escrow agreement prepared and approved by
the Township Solicitor. The escrow agent for the deposit of such cash or
security shall be located in Indiana County and shall be subject to approval by
the Township Supervisor.
   2.   Indemnification. In addition to the foregoing requirements, all
applicants for permits to utilize sludge upon property within the Township of
West Wheatfield shall, prior to the issuance of any permit for sludge
application and/or storage, deliver to the Township a liability indemnification
with bond, good for the useful life of the proposed site plus 5 years, on a
form to be prepared by or approved by the Township Solicitor, pursuant to the
terms of which, the applicant, individually and with surety, specifically
agrees to fully indemnify and hold harmless the Township and all of its
officers, agents and employees from any and all liability, expense, or damages
whatsoever and litigation defense costs accruing to any of the same as a result
of any use or any land in the Township pursuant to the provisions hereof. The
amount of the indemnification bond shall be equal to the costs of removal and/
or clean up of any site and any engineering or legal fees pertaining thereto as
estimated by the Township Engineer and Township Solicitor at the time of
issuance of any permit plus 15 percent per year thereof for the useful life of
the site plus 5 years.
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 7)
§ 18-308.   Insurance.
   The Board of Supervisors shall require the applicant to submit to the
Township an insurance policy covering liability for any harm to persons and/or
damage to properties resulting from the aforesaid activities. Said insurance
policy shall be in full force and effect for the entire duration of the above
operations and for at least 2 years following the termination of said
operations. The amount of said insurance coverage shall be specified by the
Board of Supervisors based upon their judgment as to the potential for harm or
damage.
(Ord. O-84-7, 12/1/1984, § 8)
Part 4
Indiana County Sewage Enforcement Agency
§ 18-401.   Intergovernmental Cooperation Agreement.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Law, Act
180, approved July 12, 1972, the Township of West Wheatfield (hereinafter
referred to as the “Municipality”), shall and does hereby enter into and adopt
an agreement of Coopera tion (hereinafter “Agreement”) with such other
municipalities of Indiana County as may ordain to do so, providing for the
establishment and maintenance of a joint local agency as authorized by 58 of
the Sewage Facilities Act, Act No. 537, January 24, 1966, (hereinafter “Act”)
to be known as the Indiana County Sewage Enforcement Agency (hereinafter
“agency”).
(Ord. O-75-1, 8/2/1975, § 1)
§ 18-402.   Agreement Provisions.
   The agreement shall provide, inter alia:
      A.   For the delegating and transferring to the agency of all functions,
powers and/or responsibilities of the Township, as provided for by the Act, as
amended or hereafter amended, which shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (1)   Setting fee schedules for processing permit applications and
issuing permits.
         (2)   Employing certified sewage enforcement officers and such other
employees or personnel, as may be necessary, and determining the amount and
method of compensation for them.
         (3)   Applying for and receiving reimbursement from the Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection. [Ord. 02-08]
         (4)   Establishing all necessary provisions and procedures for
issuance of permits, collection of fees, enforcement of the Act and the rules
and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, prosecution of violations,
hearing appeals from decisions of the sewage enforcement officers, and
appearing as a party respondent to appeals taken from the decision of the local
agency pursuant to the Local Agency Law.
         (5)   Adopting rules and regulations and procedures not inconsistent
with the Sewage Facilities Act or the rules and regulation promulgated pursuant
thereto, which the agency deems necessary and proper to the effective
administration of the Act and to the effective execution of the powers, duties
and responsibilities granted by the Act, the ordinances of participating
municipalities and the agreement of Cooperation.
         (6)   Exercising all the powers and duties delegated to local agencies
by §§ 7 and 8 of the Act.
      B.   That the purposes and objectives of the agreement are to create a
local agency which will equally administer and enforce the provisions of the
Act within each municipality that is part of and included within the
jurisdiction of the agency created.
      C.   That the manner and extent of financing the activities of the agency
shall be determined by the agency which will annually, before preparation of
budgets of participating municipalities, specify the amount of funds, if any,
that will be needed from each member municipality to finance any costs not
covered by fees and reimbursements, which amounts shall be approved by each
member municipality. The agency shall attempt, as nearly as is feasible, to
limit its expenditures to income received from fees and reimbursements.
      D.   That the organizational structure of the agency shall consist of
five representatives from participating Townships and two representatives from
participating Boroughs, elected by the Townships and Boroughs participating,
respectively.
      E.   For the manner in which property, real or personal, shall be
acquired, managed or disposed of, including provision that upon complete
termination of the agency’s existence, its remaining assets shall be equally
reimbursed to the participating municipalities existing at such time.
      F.   That the agency shall serve only those municipalities participating
therein.
      G.   That nonmember municipalities in the County may become participating
members of the agency by proper ordinance adopting the agreement.
      H.   That the agreement is perpetual. In the event one of the agreed
parties or the agency wishes to terminate this agreement, said party shall
terminate this agreement by giving written notice prior to September 1, of the
preceding year of termination.
      I.   That the agreement of Cooperation may be amended, or terminated, as
in subsection .H, by ordinance by a vote of two-thirds of the participating
members.
(Ord. O-75-1, 8/2/1975, § 2; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 18-403.   Violations and Penalties.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
anc costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each Section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-75-1, 8/2/1975, § 4; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Chapter 19
[Reserved]
Chapter 20
Solid Waste
Part 1
Solid Waste
   §
20-101.   Short Title
   §
20-102.   Definitions
   §
20-103.   Prohibited Activities
   §
20-104.   Standards for Storage of Solid Waste
   §
20-105.   Standards and Regulations for Collection
   §
20-106.   Licensing Requirements
   §
20-107.   Injunction Powers
   §
20-108.   Penalties
Part 1
Solid Waste
§ 20-101.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known and referred to as the “Municipal Solid Waste
Ordinance.”
(Ord. O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 1)
§ 20-102.   Definitions.
   The following words and phrases as used in this Part shall have the meaning
ascribed to them herein, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   Act 97–the Pennsylvania Solid Waste Management Act of 1980, P.L. 380, No.
97, July 7, 1980.
   Act 101–the Pennsylvania Municipal Waste Planning, Recycling, and Waste
Reduction Act of 1988, SB 528, Act 1988-101, July 28, 1988.
   Authority–the Indiana County Solid Waste Authority.
   Collector or waste hauler–any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or
public agency engaged in the collection and/or transportation of municipal
waste.
   Commercial establishment–any establishment engaged in nonmanufacturing or
nonprocessing business including, but not limited to, stores, markets, offices,
restaurants, shopping centers, and theaters.
   County–the Indiana County Board of Commissioners or the County of Indiana.
   County licensed collector or waste ruler–any municipal waste collector or
hauler possessing a valid license issued by the County pursuant to this Part.
   Department or DEP–the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection.
[Ord. 02-08]
   Disposal–the deposition, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing
of solid waste into or on the land or water in a manner that the solid waste
enters the environment, is emitted into the air or is discharged to the waters
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
   Domestic waste or household waste–solid waste, comprised of garbage and
rubbish, which normally originates in the residential private household or
apartment house.
   Garbage–any solid waste derived from animal, grain, fruit, or vegetable
matter that is capable of being decomposed by microorganisms with sufficient
rapidity to cause such nuisances or odors, gases, or vectors.
   Industrial establishment–any establishment engaged in manufacturing or
production activities including, but not limited to, factories, foundries,
mills, processing plants, refineries, mines, and slaughterhouses.
   Institutional establishment–any establishment or facility engaged in
services including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, and
universities.
   Leaf waste–leaves, garden residues, shrubbery, and tree trimmings, and
similar material but not including, grass clippings.
   Licensed collector or licensed waste hauler–any municipal waste collector or
hauler possessing a current, valid County License issued by the Indiana County
Solid Waste Authority pursuant to County Ordinance No. 111391.
   Municipal waste–any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste,
and other material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from the operation of residential, municipal, commercial, or
institutional establishments and from community activities; and any sludge not
meeting the definition of residual or hazardous waste under Act 97 from any
municipal, commercial, or institutional water supply treatment plant, or air
pollution control facility. The term does not include any source-separated
recyclable-materials or material approved by the Pennsylvania DEP for
beneficial use. [Ord. 02-08]
   Municipality–the Township of West Wheatfield, Indiana County, Pennsylvania.
   Person–any individual, partnership, corporation, association, institution,
cooperative enterprise, municipal authority, municipality, State institution or
agency, or any other legal entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties. In any provision of this Part prescribing a fine, penalty,
imprisonment, or any combination of the foregoing, the term “person” shall
include the officers and directors of any corporation or other legal entity
having officers and directors.
   Rubbish–all non-putrescible municipal waste except garbage and other
decomposable matter. This category includes, but is not limited to, ashes,
bedding, cardboard, cans, crockery, glass, paper, wood, and yard cleanings.
   Salvaging–the controlled removal of recycling of material from a solid waste
processing or disposal facility.
   Scavenging–the unauthorized and uncontrolled removal of any material stored
or placed at a point for subsequent collection or from a solid waste processing
or disposal facility.
   Solid waste–names any waste including, but not limited to, municipal,
residual or hazardous wastes including, solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material.
   Storage–the containment of any waste on a temporary basis in such a manner
as not to constitute disposal of such waste. It shall be presumed that the
containment of any waste in excess of 1 year shall constitute disposal. This
presumption can be overcome by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
   Transportation–the off-site removal of any municipal waste at any time after
generation.
   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter.
(Ord. O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 2; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 20-103.   Prohibited Activities.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or permit to
accumulate upon any public or private property within the Township, garbage,
rubbish, bulky waste, or other municipal or residual waste, or to process and/
or dispose of any solid waste including, leaf waste, except in accordance with
Act 97 and Act 101, and all Department rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto.
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, haul, transport, or
remove any solid waste from public or private property within the Township
without a current, valid license to do so issued by the Indiana County Solid
Waste Authority, except for an individual transporting municipal waste
generated on their own private residence or property to a County designated
processing or disposal facility.
   3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any materials from any
solid waste that is stored or deposited for collection within the Township
without prior written approval from the Township.
   4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to salvage or reclaim any solid
wastes within the Township except at an approved and permitted resource
recovery facility or municipal waste management facility under any applicable
Department rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Act 97 and Act 101.
(Ord O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 3)
§ 20-104.   Standards for Storage of Solid Waste.
   1.   Storage of all solid waste shall be in containers which prevent the
attraction, harborage, or breeding of insects or rodents, which are or may
become harmful to public health, and which prevent the creation of safety
hazards, odors, unsightliness, or public nuisances and shall comply with the
minimum standards for the storage of municipal waste as set forth in the
Department's regulations.
   2.   Any person producing solid waste shall provide a sufficient number of
containers to store all waste materials generated during periods between
regularly scheduled collections, and shall place and store all waste materials
therein.
(Ord. O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 4)
§ 20-105.   Standards and Regulations for Collection.
   1.   All households and homeowners shall utilize the services of a licensed
hauler of their choice for disposal of their domestic waste or household waste,
unless they can demonstrate that the waste is properly disposed in a manner
consistent with this Part and applicable Department rules and regulations.
   2.   All licensed waste haulers shall comply with the minimum standards for
collection and transportation of municipal waste set forth in the Department's
regulations.
   3.   All municipal waste collected within the Township shall only be
conveyed or transported to a transfer station, processing facility, and/or
disposal site designated by the Indiana County Solid Waste Authority pursuant
to the approved Municipal Waste Management Plan for Indiana County.
(Ord. O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 5)
§ 20-106.   Licensing Requirements.
   No person shall collect, remove, haul, or transport any solid waste upon or
through any streets or alleys of the Township without first obtaining a license
from the Indiana County Solid Waste Authority pursuant to the requirements of
County Ordinance No. 111391.
(Ord. O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 6)
§ 20-107.   Injunction Powers.
   The Township may petition the Court of Common Pleas for an injunction,
either mandatory or prohibitive, to enforce any of the provisions of this Part.
(Ord. O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 7)
§ 20-108.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each Section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-02-05-92, 5/27/1992, § 8; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Chapter 21
Streets and Sidewalks
Part 1
Street Cuts and Excavations
   §
21-101.   Regulations
   §
21-102.   Application for Permit
Part 2
Highway Occupancy Permits
   §
21-201.   Application for Permit
   §
21-202.   Application Contents
   §
21-203.   Issuance of Permit
   §
21-204.   Penalties
Part 1
Street Cuts and Excavations
§ 21-101.   Regulations.
   In accordance with the provisions of § 2322 of this Second Class Township
Code, 53 P.S. § 67322, no railroad or street railway crossings, nor any gas
pipe, water pipe, electric conduits, or other piping, be laid upon or in, nor
shall any telephone, telegraph, or electric light or power poles, or any coal
tipples or any other obstructions be erected upon or in, any portion of a
township road except under such conditions, restrictions and regulations
relating to the installation and maintenance thereof, as may be prescribed in
permits granted by the Township for such purpose.
(Ord. O-74-1, 7/6/1974, § 1; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 21-102.   Application for Permit.
   The application for a permit shall be on a form prescribed by the Township
and submitted to the Township in triplicate. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth by the
Department of Transportation, for highway occupancy permits and restoration
charges. In addition, the applicant shall submit three copies of a sketch
showing such dimensions as the location of the intended facility, width of the
traveled roadway, right-of-way lines and a dimension to the nearest
intersecting street.
(Ord. O-74-1, 7/6/1974, § 2)
Part 2
Highway Occupancy Permits
§ 21-201.   Application for Permit.
   Prior to the construction or paving of a driveway or road for access to any
road maintained by this Township, the owner of the property for which access is
being sought must apply to the Township Secretary for a permit.
(Ord. O-74-2, 9/11/1976, § 1)
§ 21-202.   Application Contents.
   The application must contain a print showing the location, the width, and
the type of construction of the proposed access.
(Ord. O-74-2, 9/11/1976, § 2)
§ 21-203.   Issuance of Permit.
   Permits will only be issued where the application shows that the proposed
access will not unduly endanger persons traveling on the roads maintained by
the Township.
(Ord. O-74-2, 9/11/1976, § 3)
§ 21-204.   Penalties.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought before a magisterial
district judge in the manner provided for the enforcement of summary offenses
under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of not more than $1,000 plus costs and, in default of payment of said fine
and costs, to a term of imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day that a
violation of this Part continues or each Section of this Part which shall be
found to have been violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. O-74-2, 9/11/1976, § 4; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
Chapter 22
[Reserved]
Chapter 23
[Reserved]
Chapter 24
Taxation; Special
Part 1
Earned Income Tax
   §
24-101.   Definitions
   §
24-102.   General Provisions
   §
24-103.   Appointing and Qualifications of a Tax Collector
   §
24-104.   Powers of the Tax Collector
   §
24-105.   Filing of Estimated Return
   §
24-106.   Collection at Source
   §
24-107.   Powers and Duties of Officer
   §
24-108.   Confidentiality and Exceptions
   §
24-109.   Interest and Penalties
   §
24-110.   Collections
   §
24-111.   Violations and Penalties
   §
24-112.   Incurred Expenses
   §
24-113.   Exceptions
Part 2
Realty Transfer Tax
   §
24-201.   Short Title
   §
24-202.   Authority
   §
24-203.   Definitions
   §
24-204.   Disposition of Tax; Interest
   §
24-205.   Exempt Parties
   §
24-206.   Excluded Transactions
   §
24-207.   Documents Relating to Associations and Corporations and Members,
Stockholders or Shareholders
   §
24-208.   Acquired Company
   §
24-209.   Credits Against Tax
   §
24-210.   Extension of Lease
   §
24-211.   Proceeds of Judicial Sale
   §
24-212.   Duties of Recorder of Deeds
   §
24-213.   Statement of Value
   §
24-214.   Civil Penalties
   §
24-215.   Lien
   §
24-216.   Enforcement
Part 3
Per Capita Tax
   §
24-301.   Imposition of Tax
   §
24-302.   Exemption
   §
24-303.   Tax Collector
   §
24-304.   Penalties; Interest
   §
24-305.   Violations
Part 4
Local Services Tax
   §
24-401.   Title
   §
24-402.   Authority
   §
24-403.   Definitions
   §
24-404.   Levy
   §
24-405.   Exemptions
   §
24-406.   Collection Through Employers
   §
24-407.   Direct Payment by Taxpayers
   §
24-408.   Nonresident Taxpayers
   §
24-409.   Administration and Enforcement
   §
24-410.   Suits for Collection of Tax
   §
24-411.   Interests and Penalties for Unpaid Tax
   §
24-412.   Fines and Penalties for Violation of this Part
   §
24-413.   Refunds
   §
24-414.   Receipt
   §
24-415.   Applicability
   §
24-416.   Duration
Part 5
Fire Protection Tax
   §
24-501.   Title
   §
24-502.   Definitions
   §
24-503.   Levy
   §
24-504.   Administration of Tax
Part 6
Tax Penalty
   §
24-601.   Tax Penalty
Part 7
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
   §
24-701.   General
Part 1
Earned Income Tax
§ 24-101.   Definitions.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall have for the
purposes of this Part the meaning respectively herein indicated:
   Association–a partnership, limited partnership or any form of unincorporated
enterprise owned by two or more persons.
   Board–the Board of Supervisors of the Township of West Wheatfield, Indiana
County, Pennsylvania.
   Business–includes any enterprise, activity, profession, or undertaking of
any nature conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit either by an
individual, co-partnership, association, or other entity.
   Collector–the person or persons appointed or elected by resolution of the
Board to collect all taxes imposed by this Part and to carry out the provisions
of this Part.
   Compensation earned or compensation paid or earnings–all salaries, wages,
commissions, bonuses, income payments and/or other forms of compensation or re-
numeration, in cash or property received by an individual and paid directly or
through an agent by an employer for services rendered.
   Corporation–any corporation, or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States of America, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, or any
other state, territory, or foreign country or dependency.
   Employer–any individual, co-partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body, or unit, or agency or any other entity, who or which employs
one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other compensation basis.
   Net profits–the net gain from the operation of a business, profession, or
enterprise, after provision for all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct
thereof, whether paid or accrued in accordance with the accounting system used
and without deduction of taxes based upon income.
   Person–includes natural persons, co-partnerships, associations, corporation,
except any corporation which is exempt from this tax under the Local Tax
Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6913, firms or fiduciaries. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing or imposing a penalty, the term “person” as applied to associations
shall mean the partners, or employees thereof and as applied to corporations,
shall mean the officers thereof. [Ord. 02-08]
   Resident–an individual, co-partnership, association, or other entity
domiciled in the aforesaid Township of West Wheatfield, County of Indiana,
Pennsylvania.
   Taxpayer–a person, whether an individual, co-partnership, association, or
other entity required hereunder to file a return on earnings or net profits or
to pay a tax thereon.
   In this Part, the singular shall include the plural and the masculine shall
include the feminine and the neuter.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 1; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-102.   General Provisions.
   1.   Under and by virtue of the authority of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53
P.S. § 6901 et seq., and its amendments, taxes for general revenue purposes are
hereby imposed as follows: [Ord. 02-08]
      A.   A tax of ½ of 1 percent is hereby imposed on salaries, wages,
commissions, and other compensations earned on and after July 1, 1966, by
residents and inhabitants of the Township of West Wheatfield, Indiana County,
Pennsylvania.
      B.   A tax of ½ of 1 percent is hereby imposed on net profits earned on
and after July 1, 1966, of businesses, professions, or other activities
conducted by such residents.
   2.   The taxes levied under subsection .1.A herein shall relate to and be
imposed upon salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation paid by an
employer or on his behalf to any person who is employed by or renders services
to him.
   3.   The taxes levied under subsection .1.B herein shall relate to and be
imposed on the net profits of any business, profession, or enterprise carried
on by any person as owner or proprietor, either individually or in association
with any other person or persons.
   4.   Such taxes shall be levied with respect to the compensation or net
profits earned during the period of time beginning with July 1, 1966, and
ending June 1, 1967.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 2; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-103.   Appointing and Qualifications of a Tax Collector.
   The Supervisors of the Township of West Wheatfield, Indiana County,
Pennsylvania, shall designate one or more collector of taxes imposed by this
Part. He shall be bonded by a good and reliable bonding company at all times
for all money coming into his hands for Township purposes under this Part, the
costs of which bond shall be paid by the Township of West Wheatfield. He shall
collect and receive all such taxes, shall furnish a receipt for their payment
when requested so to do by any taxpayer and shall keep a record showing the
amount received by him from each taxpayer under this Part and the date of the
receipt of such payment.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 3)
§ 24-104.   Powers of the Tax Collector.
   The collector of taxes is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of the
Solicitor of the Township of West Wheatfield, to prescribe rules and
regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this Part. Such rules and regulations
shall be inscribed by the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors in a book kept
for that purpose and be open to the inspection of the public. Such rules and
regulations shall have the same force and effect as if they had been
incorporated in this Part.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 4)
§ 24-105.   Filing of Estimated Return.
   1.   Every person whose earnings or net profits are subject to any tax
imposed by this Part shall, on or before August 15, 1966, make an estimated
return and file the same with the collector of taxes designated by the Board of
Supervisors. Such return shall be filed on forms prescribed by the Solicitor of
the Township of West Wheatfield and obtainable from the collector of taxes. The
information on such estimate shall include the name and address of the taxpayer
and of his employer; his place of employment or business; the aggregate amount
of compensation paid to him or net profits earned by him during the preceding
year; the amount of taxes due to the Township of West Wheatfield under this
Part; the amount of taxes on salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation or net profits paid by such taxpayer for the period covered by
such return to any other political subdivision of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, together with such other pertinent information as may be
required.
   2.   The person making such return shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay
to the collector of taxes the amount of tax as shown thereon less any credits
of tax withheld by any employer from compensation earned less any credits and
deductions allowed pursuant to § 13 of the Local Tax Enabling Act, 53 P.S. §
6913, for payment of any concurrent period of a like tax of any other political
subdivision of this Commonwealth by any resident of such political subdivision.
Provided, however, that any taxpayer, other than those from whom the tax
imposed by this Part shall have been withheld by his employer on compensation
earned, shall have the right to pay such tax or any balance of such tax as
shown on the return in four equal quarterly installments, the first installment
thereof on or before November 15, 1966, and the other installments thereof on
or before February 15, 1967, May 15, 1967, and August 15, 1967. Provided;
however, that any adjustment in the amount of tax actually due and payable
shall be made at the time of payment due on or before August 15, 1967, at which
time there shall be filed an annual return, on form furnished by the collector
of taxes showing the actual earnings and net profits of the taxable for the
time during which this tax is levied. Provided that in any case where the sole
income of any person subject to any tax under this Part is in the form of
compensation paid by an employer and where the entire tax due by any employee
shall have been withheld by his employer and return thereof made to the
collector of taxes, such employee shall not be required to file a return
thereof. [Ord. 02-08]
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 5; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-106.   Collection at Source.
   Every employer within the confines of the Township of West Wheatfield,
County of Indiana, and every employer without said Township, who shall have
employees who are residents or inhabitants of said Township, shall deduct
monthly or more frequently than monthly at the time of payment of compensation
due by him to an employee the tax of one-half of 1 percent of the amount of
compensation for such period. Such employer shall quarterly make a return and
pay over to the collector of taxes, the amount of tax deducted or the balance
of any tax deducted and not previously remitted during such quarter to the
collector of taxes. Such quarterly return shall be filed and the tax due
therewith paid over on or before the last day of the calendar month following
the close of each of the quarters ending September 30, 1966, December 31, 1966,
March 31, 1967, and June 30, 1967.   Such return shall be on a form furnished
by or obtainable from the collector of taxes, and shall set forth the total
amount of compensation paid by each employer during such quarter; the amount of
tax withheld; previous remittance, if any to the collector of taxes for the
said quarter; and the balance remitted therewith. Together with the return for
the quarter ending June 30, 1967, there shall be filed in addition thereto, an
annual return, which return shall be on a form furnished by and obtainable from
the collector of taxes and shall set forth the name and residence of each
employee of such employer during all or part of the preceding year, the amount
of compensation earned by each information that may be required. Provided,
however, that the failure or omission by any employer located in the said
Township or elsewhere to deduct such tax and to make such returns to the
collector of taxes shall not, relieve an employee from the payment of such tax
and the compliance with such regulations with respect to making returns and the
payment thereof, as may be established under this Part.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 6)
§ 24-107.   Powers and Duties of Officer.
   1.   The collector of taxes or any other person designated by the said
Township for the purpose is hereby authorized to examine any of the books,
papers, and records of any employer or supposed employer or of any taxpayer or
supposed taxpayer in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no
return is made, to ascertain the amount of tax due by any person under this
Part. Every such employer or supposed employer or taxpayer or supposed taxpayer
is hereby directed and required to give to the collector of taxes or such other
authorized person, the means, facilities and opportunity for such examinations
and investigations as are hereby authorized.
   2.   The collector is hereby authorized to examine any person under oath
concerning any income which was or should have been returned for taxation and
to this end the Board of Supervisors may compel the production of books,
records, and papers and the attendance of all persons before such collector
whether as parties or as witnesses whom the collector believes to have
knowledge of such income.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 7)
§ 24-108.   Confidentiality and Exceptions.
   Any information gained by the collector of taxes or any other official or
agent of the said Township as a result of any return investigations, hearing,
or verification required or authorized by this Part shall be confidential,
except for official purposes and except in accordance with proper judicial
order or as otherwise provided by law. Any disclosure of any such information
contrary to the provisions of this Section shall constitute a violation of this
Part and any person or agent divulging the information shall be subject to a
fine or penalty as set forth in §
24-111.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 8; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-109.   Interest and Penalties.
   All taxes imposed under this Part remaining unpaid after they shall have
become due shall bear interest in addition to the amount of the unpaid tax at
the rate of 6 percent per annum and the person against whom such tax is imposed
shall further be liable to a penalty of one-half of 1 percent of the amount of
the unpaid tax for each month or fraction of a month for the first 6 months of
nonpayment.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 9)
§ 24-110.   Collections.
   All taxes, interest, and penalties collected or recovered by the collector
of taxes or by any other authorized office, including the solicitor for said
Township, for or on behalf of said Township, shall be paid into the treasury of
the Township as general revenue to be used for general revenue purposes. All
taxes imposed by this Part, together with all interest and penalties may be
recoverable by the Solicitor of said Township as other debts of like amount are
recoverable.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 10)
§ 24-111.   Violations and Penalties.
   1.   Any person who fails, neglects, or refuses to make any declaration or
return required by this Part, any employer who fails, neglects or refuses to
register or to pay the tax deducted from his employees, or fails, neglects, or
refuses to deduct or withhold the tax from his employees, any person who
refuses to permit the officer or any agent designated by him to examine his
books, records, and papers, and any person who knowingly makes any incomplete,
false or fraudulent return, or attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid the
full disclosure of the amount of his net profits or earned income in order to
avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the tax imposed by this Part,
shall, upon conviction therefor before a magisterial district judge, or court
of competent jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 for
each offense, and costs, and in default of payment, to be imprisoned for a
period not exceeding 30 days. [Ord. 02-08]
   2.   Any person who divulges any information which is confidential under the
provisions of this Part, shall, upon conviction therefor, before a magisterial
district judge, or court of competent jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine
of not more than $500 for each offense, and costs, and in default of payment,
to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding 30 days. [Ord. 02-08]
   3.   The penalties imposed under this Section shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed by any other Section of this Part.
   4.   The failure of any person to receive or procure forms required for
making the declaration or returns required by this ordinance shall not excuse
him from making such declaration or return.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 11; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-112.   Incurred Expenses.
   All expenses incurred in the administration of this Part shall be paid by
the Township of West Wheatfield.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 12)
§ 24-113.   Exceptions.
   This Part shall not apply to any person or property as to whom or which it
is beyond the legal power of the Board of Supervisors to impose the tax or
duties herein provided for.
(Res. R-2-66, 5/14/1966, § 13)
Part 2
Realty Transfer Tax
§ 24-201.   Short Title.
   This Part shall be known as the “Realty Transfer Tax Ordinance of West
Wheatfield Township.”
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 1)
§ 24-202.   Authority.
   A realty transfer tax for general revenue purposes is hereby imposed upon
the transfer of real estate or interest in real estate situated within West
Wheatfield Township, regardless of where the documents making the transfer are
made, executed or delivered, or where the actual settlements on such transfer
took place as authorized by Article XI-D, “Local Real Estate Transfer Tax,” 72
P.S. § 8101-D et seq.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 2)
§ 24-203.   Definitions.
   Association–a partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned or conducted by two or more persons other than
a private trust or decedent’s estate.
   Board–the Board of Supervisors of West Wheatfield Township, Indiana County,
Pennsylvania.
   Corporation–a corporation, joint-stock association, business trust, or
banking institution which is organized under the laws of this Commonwealth, the
United States, or any other state, territory, foreign country, or dependency.
   Document–any deed, instrument, or writing which conveys, transfers, demises,
vests, confirms, or evidences any transfer or demise of title to real estate,
but does not include wills, mortgages, deeds of trust, or other instruments or
like character given as security for a debt and deeds of release thereof to the
debtor, land contracts whereby the legal title does not pass to the grantee
until the total consideration specified in the contract has been paid or any
cancellation thereof unless the consideration is payable over a period of time
exceeding 30 years, or instruments which solely grant, vest, or confirm a
public utility easement. “Document” shall also include a declaration of
acquisition required to be presented for recording under section of this Part.
   Family farm corporation–a corporation of which at least 75 percent of its
assets are devoted to the business of agriculture and at least 75 percent of
each class of stock of the corporation is continuously owned by members of the
same family. The business of agriculture shall not be deemed to include:
      A.   Recreational activities such as, but not limited to, hunting,
fishing, camping, skiing, show competition or racing.
      B.   The raising, breeding, or training of game animals or game birds,
fish, cats, dogs, or pets, or animals intended for use in sporting or
recreational activities.
      C.   Fur farming.
      D.   Stockyard and slaughterhouse operations.
      E.   Manufacturing or processing operations of any kind.
   Members of the same family–any individual, such individual’s brothers and
sisters, the brothers and sisters of such individual’s parents and
grandparents, the ancestors and lineal descendants of any of the foregoing, a
spouse of any of the foregoing, and the estate of any of the foregoing.
Individuals related by the half-blood or legal adoption shall be treated as if
they were related by the whole-blood.
   Person–every natural person, association, or corporation. The term “person”
as applied to associations, shall include the responsible members or general
partners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   Real estate -
      A.   All lands, tenements, or hereditaments within this Township
including, without limitation, buildings, structures, fixtures, mines,
minerals, oil, gas, quarries, spaces with or without upper or lower boundaries,
trees, and other improvements, immovables or interests which by custom, usage
or law pass with a conveyance of land, but excluding permanently attached
machinery and equipment in an industrial plant.
      B.   A condominium unit.
      C.   A tenant-stockholder’s interest in a cooperative housing
corporation, trust or association under a proprietary lease or occupancy
agreement.
   Real estate company–a corporation or association which is primarily engaged
in the business of holding, selling, or leasing real estate, 90 percent or more
of the ownership interest in which is held by 35 or fewer persons and which:
      A.   Derives 60 percent or more of its annual gross receipts from the
ownership or disposition of real estate.
      B.   Holds real estate, the value of which comprises 90 percent or more
of the value of its entire tangible asset holdings exclusive of tangible assets
which are freely transferable and actively traded on an established market.
   Title to real estate -
      A.   Any interest in real estate which endures for a period of time, the
termination of which is not fixed or ascertained by a specific number of years,
including without limitation an estate in fee simple, life estate, or perpetual
leasehold.
      B.   Any interest in real estate enduring for a fixed period of years but
which, either by reason of the length of the term or the grant of a right to
extend the term by renewal or otherwise, consists of a group of rights
approximating those of an estate in fee simple, life estate, or perpetual
leasehold, including without limitation a leasehold interest or possessory
interest under a lease or occupancy agreement for a term of 30 years or more or
a leasehold interest or possessory interest in real estate in which the lessee
has equity.
   Township–West Wheatfield Township, Indiana County, Pennsylvania.
   Transaction–the making, executing, delivering, accepting, or presenting for
recording of a document.
   Value -
      A.   In the case of any bona fide sale of real estate at arm’s length for
actual monetary worth, the amount of the actual consideration therefor, paid or
to be paid, including liens or other encumbrances thereon existing before the
transfer and not removed thereby, whether or not the underlying indebtedness is
assumed, and ground rents, or a commensurate part thereof where such liens or
other encumbrances and ground rents also encumber or are charged against other
real estate; provided, that where such documents shall set forth a nominal
consideration, the “value” thereof shall be determined from the price set forth
in for actual consideration for the contract of sale.
      B.   In the case of a gift, sale by execution upon a judgment or upon the
foreclosure of a mortgage by a judicial officer, transactions without
consideration or for consideration less than the actual monetary worth of the
real estate, a taxable lease, an occupancy agreement, a leasehold or possessory
interest, any exchange of properties, or the real estate of an acquired
company, the actual monetary worth of the real estate determined by adjusting
the assessed value of the real estate for local real estate tax purposes for
the common level ratio factor developed by the Pennsylvania Department of
Revenue for Pennsylvania realty transfer tax base calculations.
      C.   In the case of an easement or other interest in real estate the
value of which is not determinable under paragraph .A or .B, the actual
monetary worth of such interest.
      D.   The actual consideration for or actual monetary worth of any
executory agreement for the construction of buildings, structures, or other
permanent improvements to real estate between the grantor and other persons
existing before the transfer and not removed thereby or between the grantor,
the agent or principle of the grantor of a related corporation, association, or
partnership and the grantee existing before or effective with the transfer.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 4)
§ 24-204.   Disposition of Tax; Interest.
   1.   Every person who makes, executes, delivers, accepts, or presents for
recording any document or in whose behalf any document is made, executed,
delivered, accepted, or presented for recording, shall be subject to pay for
and in respect to the transaction or any part thereof, a tax at the rate of 1
percent of the value of the real estate represented by such document, which tax
shall be payable at the earlier of the time the document is presented for
recording or within 30 days of acceptance of such document or within 30 days of
becoming an acquired company.
   2.   The payment of the tax imposed herein shall be evidenced by the
affixing of an official stamp or writing by the Recorder of Deeds whereon the
date of the payment of the tax, amount of the tax and the signature of the
collecting agent shall be set forth.
   3.   It is the intent of this Part that the entire burden of the tax imposed
herein on a person or transfer shall not exceed the limitations prescribed in
the Local Tax Enabling Act, Act of December 31, 1965, P.L. 1257, 53 P.S. § 6901
et seq., so that if any other political subdivision shall impose or hereafter
shall impose such tax on the same person or transfer then the tax levied by the
Township of West Wheatfield under the
authority of that Act shall during the time such duplication of the tax exists,
except as hereinafter otherwise provided, be one-half of the rate and such one-
half rate shall become effective without any action on the part of West
Wheatfield Township; provided, however, that the Township of West Wheatfield
and any other political subdivision which impose such tax on the same person or
transfer may agree that, instead of limiting their respective rates to one-half
of the rate herein provided, they will impose respectively different rates, the
total of which shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted under the Local Tax
Enabling Act, 53 P.S. § 6901 etseq.
   4.   Any tax imposed under this Part that is not paid by the date the tax is
due shall bear interest as prescribed for interest on delinquent municipal
claims under the Act of May 16, 1923, P.L. 207, No. 153, 53 P.S. § 7101, et
seq., as amended, known as the “Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act.” The
interest rate shall be the lesser of the interest rate imposed upon delinquent
Commonwealth taxes as provided in § 806 of the Act of April 9, 1929, P.L. 343,
No. 176, 72 P.S. § 806, as amended, known as the “Fiscal Code,” or the maximum
interest rate permitted under the Municipal Claims and Tax Liens Act for tax
claims. [Ord. 01-06]
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 5; as amended by Ord. 01-06, 9/11/2006, § 1)
§ 24-205.   Exempt Parties.
   The United States, the Commonwealth, or any of their instrumentalities,
agencies, or political subdivisions shall be exempt from payment or the tax
imposed by this Part. The exemption of such governmental bodies shall not,
however, relieve any other party to a transaction from liability for the tax.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 6)
§ 24-206.   Excluded Transactions.
   1.   The tax imposed by §
24-203 shall not be imposed upon:
      A.   A transfer to the Commonwealth, or to any of its instrumentalities,
agencies or political subdivisions, by gift, dedication or deed in lieu of
condemnation or deed of confirmation in connection with condemnation
proceedings, or a reconveyance by the condemning body of the property condemned
to the owner of record at the time of condemnation which reconveyance may
include property line adjustments provided said reconveyance is made within 1
year from the date of condemnation.
      B.   A document which the Township of West Wheatfield is prohibited from
taxing under the Constitution or statutes of the United States.
      C.   A conveyance to a municipality, Township, school district, or county
pursuant to acquisition by the municipality, Township, school district, or
county of a tax delinquent property at sheriff sale or tax claim bureau sale.
      D.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration which corrects or
confirms a transfer previously recorded, but which does not extend or limit
existing record legal title or interest.
      E.   A transfer of division in kind for no or nominal actual
consideration of property passed by testate or intestate succession and held by
co-tenants; however, if any of the parties take shares greater in value than
their undivided interest, tax is due on the excess.
      F.   A transfer between husband and wife, between persons who were
previously husband and wife who have since been divorced, provided the property
or interest therein subject to such transfer was acquired by the husband and
wife or husband or wife prior to the granting of the final decree in divorce,
between parent and child or the spouse of such child, between brother or sister
or spouse of a brother or sister and brother or sister or the spouse of a
brother or sister, and between a grandparent and grandchild or the spouse of
such grandchild, except that a subsequent transfer by the grantee within 1 year
shall be subject to tax as if the grantor were making such transfer.
      G.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration of property
passing by testate or intestate succession from a personal representative of a
decedent to the decedent’s devisee or heir.
      H.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration to a trustee of an
ordinary trust where the transfer of the same property would be exempt if the
transfer was made directly from the grantor to all of the possible
beneficiaries, whether or not such beneficiaries are contingent or specifically
named. No such exemption shall be granted unless the recorder of deeds is
presented with a copy of the trust instrument that clearly identifies the
grantor and all possible beneficiaries.
      I.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from a trustee to
a beneficiary of an ordinary trust.
      J.   A transfer for no or nominal actual consideration from trustee to
successor trustee.
      L.   A transfer (1) for no or nominal actual consideration between
principal and agent or straw party; or (2) from or to an agent or straw party
where, if the agent or straw party were his principal, no tax would be imposed
under this Part. Where the document by which title is acquired by a grantee or
statement of value fails to set forth that the property was acquired by the
grantee from, or for the benefit of, his principal, there is a rebuttable
presumption that the property is the property of the grantee in his individual
capacity if the grantee claims an exemption from taxation under this Section.
      M.   A transfer made pursuant to the statutory merger or consolidation of
a corporation or statutory division of a nonprofit corporation, except where
the Department reasonably determines that the primary intent for such merger,
consolidation or division is avoidance of the tax imposed by this Part.
      N.   A transfer from a corporation or association of real estate held of
record in the name of the corporation or association where the grantee owns
stock of the corporation or an interest in the association in the same
proportion as his interest in or ownership of the real estate being conveyed
and where the stock of the corporation or the interest in the association has
been held by the grantee for more than 2 years.
      O.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee of property conveyed by the grantee to that agency or
authority as security for a debt or the grantee or a transfer to a nonprofit
industrial development agency or authority.
      P.   A transfer from a nonprofit industrial development agency or
authority to a grantee purchasing directly from it, but only if: (1) the
grantee shall directly use such real estate for the primary purpose of
manufacturing, fabricating, compounding, processing, publishing, research and
development, transportation, energy conversion, energy production, pollution
control, warehousing or agriculture; and (2) the agency or authority has the
full ownership interest in the real estate transferred.
      Q.   A transfer by a mortgagor to the holder of a bona fide mortgage in
default in lieu of a foreclosure or a transfer pursuant to a judicial sale in
which the successful bidder is the bona fide holder of a mortgage, unless the
holder assigns the bid to another person.
      R.   Any transfer between religious organizations or other bodies or
persons holding title for a religious organization if such real estate is not
being or has not been used by such transferor for commercial purposes.
      S.   A transfer to a conservancy which possesses a tax exempt status
pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 68A Stat. 3, 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), and which has as its primary purpose preservation of land
for historic, recreational, scenic, agricultural, or open space opportunities.
      T.   A transfer of real estate devoted to the business of agriculture to
a family farm corporation by a member of the same family which directly owns at
least 75 percent of each class of the stock thereof.
      U.   A transfer between members of the same family of an ownership
interest in a real estate company or family farm corporation.
      V.   A transaction wherein the tax due is $1 or less.
      W.   Leases for the production or extraction of coal, oil, natural gas,
or minerals and assignments thereof.
   2.   In order to exercise any exclusion provided in this Section, the true,
full, and complete value of the transfer shall be shown on the statement of
value. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value may be
submitted for this purpose. For leases of coal, oil, natural gas, or minerals,
the statement of value may be limited to an explanation of the reason such
document is not subject to tax under this Part.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 7)
§ 24-207.   Documents Relating to Associations and Corporations and Members,
Stockholders or Shareholders.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
24-206, documents which make, confirm, or evidence any transfer or demise of
title to real estate between associations or corporations and the members,
partners, shareholders, or stockholders thereof are fully taxable. For the
purposes of this Part, corporations and associations are entities separate from
their members, partners, stockholders, or shareholders.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 8)
§ 24-208.   Acquired Company.
   1.   A real estate company is an acquired company upon a change in the
ownership interest in the company, however effected, if the change does not
affect the continuity of the company; and of itself or together with prior
changes has the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, 90 percent or
more of the total ownership interest in the company within a period of 3 years.
   2.   With respect to real estate acquired after February 16, 1986, a family
farm corporation is an acquired company when, because of voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, it ceases to be a family farm corporation or when,
because of issuance or transfer of stock or because of issuance or transfer of
stock or because of acquisition or transfer of assets that are devoted to the
business of agriculture, it fails to meet the minimum requirements of a family
farm corporation under this Part.
   3.   Within 30 days after becoming an acquired company, the company shall
present a declaration of acquisition with the recorder of each county in which
it holds real estate for the affixation of documentary stamps and recording.
Such declaration shall set forth the value of real estate holdings of the
acquired company in such county. A copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax
Declaration of Acquisition may be submitted for this purpose.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 9)
§ 24-209.   Credits Against Tax.
   1.   Where there is a transfer of a residential property by a licensed real
estate broker which property was transferred to him within the preceding year
as consideration for the purchase of other residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to him shall be given to
him toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   2.   Where there is a transfer by a builder of residential property which
was transferred to the builder within the preceding year as consideration for
the purchase of new, previously unoccupied residential property, a credit for
the amount of the tax paid at the time of the transfer to the builder shall be
given to the builder toward the amount of the tax due upon the transfer.
   3.   Where there is a transfer of real estate which is leased by the
grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid at the time of the lease shall be
given the grantor toward the tax due upon the transfer.
   4.   Where there is a conveyance by deed of real estate which was previously
sold under a land contract by the grantor, a credit for the amount of tax paid
at the time of the sale shall be given the grantor toward the tax due upon the
deed.
   5.   If the tax due upon the transfer is greater than the credit given under
this section, the difference shall be paid. If the credit allowed is greater
than the amount or tax due, no refund or carryover credit shall be allowed.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 10)
§ 24-210.   Extension of Lease.
   In determining the term of a lease, it shall be presumed that a right or
option to renew or extend a lease will be exercised if the rental charge to the
lessee is fixed or if a method for calculating the rental charge is
established.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 11)
§ 24-211.   Proceeds of Judicial Sale.
   The tax herein imposed shall be fully paid, and have priority out of the
proceeds or any judicial sale of real estate before any other obligation,
claim, lien, judgment, estate, or costs of the sale and of the writ upon which
the sale is made except the state realty transfer tax, and the sheriff, or
other officer, conducting said sale, shall pay the tax herein imposed out of
the first moneys paid to him in connection therewith. If the proceeds of the
sale are insufficient to pay the entire tax herein imposed, the purchaser shall
be liable for the remaining tax.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 12)
§ 24-212.   Duties of Recorder of Deeds.
   1.   As provided in 16 P.S. § 11011-6, as amended by Act of July 7, 1983,
P.L. 40, No. 21, the recorder of deeds shall be the collection agent for the
local realty transfer tax including, any amount payable to West Wheatfield
Township based on a redetermination of the amount of tax due by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania of the Pennsylvania realty transfer tax, without
compensation from West Wheatfield Township.
   2.   In order to ascertain the amount of taxes due when the property is
located in more than one political subdivision, the recorder shall not accept
for recording such a deed unless it is accompanied by a statement of value
showing what taxes are due each municipality.
   3.   On or before the 10th of each month, the recorder shall pay over to
West Wheatfield Township all local realty transfer taxes collected, less 2
percent for use of the County, together with a report containing the
information as is required by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in reporting
collections of the Pennsylvania realty transfer tax. The 2 percent commission
shall be paid to the County.
   4.   Upon a redetermination of the amount of realty transfer tax due by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the recorder shall re-record the deed or record
the additional realty transfer tax form only when both the State and local
amounts and a re-recording or recording fee has been tendered.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 13)
§ 24-213.   Statement of Value.
   Every document lodged with or presented to the recorder of deeds for
recording, shall set forth therein and as a part of such document the true,
full, and complete value thereof, or shall be accompanied by a statement of
value executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing
such connection and setting forth the true, full, and complete value thereof or
the reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this Part. A
copy of the Pennsylvania Realty Transfer Tax Statement of Value may be
submitted for this purpose. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to
any excludable real estate transfers which are exempt from taxation based on
family relationship. Other documents presented for the affixation of stamps
shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the document and statement of value
executed by a responsible person connected with the transaction showing such
connection and setting forth the true, full, and complete value thereof or the
reason, if any, why such document is not subject to tax under this Part.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 14)
§ 24-214.   Civil Penalties.
   1.   If any part of any underpayment of tax imposed by this Section is due
to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50 percent of the
underpayment.
   2.   In the case of failure to record a declaration required under this
Section on the date prescribed therefor, unless it is shown that such failure
is due to reasonable cause, there shall be added to the tax 5 percent of the
amount of such tax if the failure is for not more than 1 month, with an
additional 5 percent for each additional month of fraction thereof during which
such failure continues, not exceeding 50 percent in the aggregate.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 15)
§ 24-215.   Lien.
   The tax imposed by this Part shall become a lien upon the lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, or any interest therein, lying, being situated, wholly or in
part within the boundaries of the Township of West Wheatfield which lands,
tenements, hereditaments, or interest therein, are described in or conveyed by
or transferred by the deed which is the subject of the tax imposed, assessed,
and levied by this Part, said lien to begin at the time when the tax under this
Part is due and payable, and continue until discharge by payment, or in
accordance with the law, and the Solicitor is authorized to file a municipal or
tax claim in the Court of Common Pleas of Indiana County, in accordance with
the provisions of the Municipal Claims and Liens Act of 1923, 53 P.S. § 7101 et
seq., its supplements and amendments.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 16)
§ 24-216.   Enforcement.
   All taxes imposed by this Part, together with interest and penalties
prescribed herein, shall be recoverable as other debts of like character are
recovered.
(Ord. O-87-1, 12/14/1987, § 17)
Part 3
Per Capita Tax
§ 24-301.   Imposition of Tax.
   A tax of $5 per year is hereby imposed upon every natural person over the
age of 18 residing within the limits of the Township of West Wheatfield,
Indiana County, Pennsylvania, whose total income from all sources exceeds
$3,200 per annum.
(Ord. O-77-1, 2/11/1977, § 1)
§ 24-302.   Exemption.
   Persons claiming exemption from this tax must apply in writing to the
Township Tax Collector at least 30 days prior to July 1, of the year for which
the tax is imposed, setting forth the facts necessary to determine exempt
status.
(Ord. O-77-1, 2/11/1977, § 2; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-303.   Tax Collector.
   The collector of taxes is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of the
solicitor of the Township of West Wheatfield, to prescribe rules and
regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this Part. Such rules and regulations
shall be inscribed by the Secretary of the Board of Supervisors in a book kept
for that purpose and be open to the inspection of the public. Such rules and
regulation shall have the same force and effect as if they had been
incorporated in this Part.
(Ord. O-77-1, 2/11/1977, § 3)
§ 24-304.   Penalties; Interest.
   All taxes imposed under this Part remaining unpaid after they shall have
become due shall bear interest in addition to the amount of the unpaid tax at
the rate of 6 percent per annum and the person against whom such tax is imposed
shall further be liable to a penalty of one-half of 1 percent of the amount of
the unpaid tax for each month or fraction of a month for the first 6 months of
nonpayment.
(Ord. O-77-1, 2/11/1977, § 4)
§ 24-305.   Violations.
   All taxes, interest, and penalties collected or recovered by the collector
of taxes or by any other authorized office, including the solicitor for said
Township, for or on behalf of said Township, shall be paid into the treasury of
the Township as general revenue to be used for general revenue purposes. All
taxes imposed by this Part, together with all interest and penalties may be
recoverable by the Solicitor of said Township as other debts of like amount are
recoverable.
(Ord. O-77-1, 2/11/1977, § 5)
Part 4
Local Services Tax
§ 24-401.   Title.
   This Part shall be known and may be cited as the “Local Services Tax
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-402.   Authority.
   This Part is enacted under the authority of Act 511 of 1965, as amended,
known as the “Local Tax Enabling Act,” 53 P.S. § 6901 et seq.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-403.   Definitions.
   As used in this Part, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning, the following words shall have the meanings set forth below:
   Calendar year - the 12-month period beginning January l and ending December
31.
   Collector - person, public employee, public agency or private agency
designated by governing body of the Township of West Wheatfield to collect and
administer the tax.
   Earned income–“compensation” as determined under § 303 of the Act of March
4, 1971 (P.L. 6, No. 2), known as the “Tax Reform Code of 1971,” and
regulations in the 61 Pa.Code, Pt. I, Subpt. B, Art. V (relating to personal
income tax), not including, however, wages or compensation paid to individuals
on active military service. Employee business expenses are allowable deductions
as determined under Article III of the Tax Reform Code of 1971. The amount of
any housing allowance provided to a member of the clergy shall not be taxable
as income.
   Employer–a person, partnership, association, corporation, institution,
governmental body or unit or agency, or any other entity employing one or more
persons for a salary, wage, commission or other compensation, including self-
employed individuals.
   Exemption certificate–an exemption certificate substantially in the form of
the uniform certificate prescribed by the Pennsylvania Department of Community
and Economic Development affirming that the person reasonably expects to
receive earned income and/or net profits from all sources within the
municipality of less than $12,000 in the calendar year for which the exemption
certificate is filed, which exemption certificate has attached to it a copy of
all the employee’s last pay stubs or W-2 forms from employment within the
municipality for the year prior to the calendar year for which the employee is
requesting to be exempted from the tax. In addition to the income exemptions,
provision has been made for certain military exemptions.
   Local services–emergency services; road construction and/or maintenance;
reduction of property taxes; and property tax relieve through implementation of
a homestead and farmstead exclusion in accordance with 53 Pa.C.S., Subch. F.
   Municipality–the Township of West Wheatfield.
   Net profits–the net income from the operation of a business, profession, or
other activity, except corporations, determined under § 303 of the Act of March
4, 1971 (P.L.6, No. 2), known as the “Tax Reform Code of 1971", and regulations
in the 61 Pa.Code, Pt. 1, Subpt. B, Art. V (relating to personal income tax).
The term does not include income which is not paid for services provided and
which is in the nature of earnings from an investment. For taxpayers engaged in
the business, profession or activity of farming, the term shall not include
   (1)   Any interest earnings generated from any monetary accounts or
investment instruments of the farming business;
   (2)   Any gain on the sale of farm machinery;
   (3)   Any gain on the sale of livestock held 12 months or more for draft,
breeding or dairy purposes; and
   (4)   Any gain on the sale of other capital assets of the farm.
   Nonresident–a person, partnership, association or other entity domiciled
outside the municipality.
   Occupation–any livelihood, job, trade, profession, business or enterprise of
any kind, including services, domestic or otherwise, for which any earned
income and/or net profits are charged and received from sources within the
municipality.
   Political subdivision–any County, City, Borough, incorporated Town,
Township, school district, vocational school district and county institutional
district.
   Preceding year–the calendar year before the current year.
   Tax–the tax imposed by §
24-404 of this Part.
   Taxpayer–any natural person liable for the tax levied by §
24-404 of this Part.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-404.   Levy.
   The municipality hereby levies and imposes on every individual engaging in
an occupation within the jurisdictional limits of the municipality a tax in the
amount of $52 per annum, beginning the first day of January 2008 and continuing
on a calendar basis annually thereafter, until modified or repealed by a
subsequent ordinance. This tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or
nature heretofore levied by the municipality.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-405.   Exemptions.
   The tax levied by §
24-404 shall not be imposed upon the following persons:
   A.   Any person who served in any war or armed conflict in which the United
States was engaged and is honorably discharged or released under honorable
circumstances from active service if, as a result of military service, the
person is blind, paraplegic or a double or quadruple amputee or has a service-
connected disability declared by the United States Veterans’ Administration or
its successor to be the total one hundred percent permanent disability.
   B.   Any person who serves as a member or a reserve component of the armed
forces and is called to active duty at any time during the calendar year. For
purposes of this subsection, “reserve components of the armed forces” shall
mean the United States Army Reserve, United States Navy Reserve, United States
Marine Corps Reserve, United States Coast Guard Reserve, United States Air
Force Reserve, the Pennsylvania Army National Guard or the Pennsylvania Air
National Guard.
   C.   Any person whose total earned income and/or net profits from all
sources within the municipality is less than $12,000 for the calendar year in
which the Local Services Tax is levied.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-406.   Collection Through Employers.
   1.   Every employer shall, within 15 days after first becoming an employer,
register with the collector the employer’s name, address and such other
information as the collector may require. Failure to register in a timely
manner does not relieve the employer of the requirements of this Part.
   2.   As to each taxpayer employed for any length of time during any payroll
period of an employer during a calendar year, each employer shall deduct a pro
rata share of the tax from the earned income payable to the taxpayer with
respect to such a payroll period. The pro rata share of the tax assessed on a
taxpayer for a payroll period shall be determined by dividing the rate of the
tax ($52) levied for the calendar year by the number of payroll periods
established by the employer for the calendar year. For purposes of determining
the pro rata share of the tax, an employer shall round down the amount of tax
deducted for each payroll period to the nearest 1/100 of a dollar.
   3.   Each employer shall file a return on a form prescribed by the
collector, and pay the collector the full amount of all such taxes deducted
during a calendar quarter within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter.
A tax return must be filed for each calendar quarter, regardless of whether
withholdings were completed or any tax liability exists.
   4.   Any employer who discontinues business or ceases operation during the
calendar year shall, within 15 days after discontinuing business or ceasing
operation, file the return hereinabove required and pay the tax to the
collector.
   5.   The failure of any employer to deduct the tax shall not relieve the
employee from the duty to file a return and pay the tax. Any employer who fails
to deduct the tax as required by this Section, or who fails to pay such tax to
the collector, shall be liable for such tax in full, as though the tax had
originally been levied against such employer. No employer shall be liable for
failure to deduct the tax if the failure to deduct the tax arises from
incorrect information submitted by the employee as to the employee’s place or
places of employment, the employee’s principal office or where the employee is
principally employed.
   6.   Priority of Withholding. The tax shall be withheld at the place of
employment on the first day the person becomes subject to the tax during each
payroll period. In the event a person is engaged in more than one occupation,
i.e., concurrent employment, or an occupation which requires the person working
in more than one political subdivision during the payroll period, the priority
to withhold the local services tax shall be in the following order:
      A.   The political subdivision in which a person maintains his or her
principal office or is principally employed;
      B.   The political subdivision in which the person resides and works, if
the tax is levied by that political subdivision;
      C.   The political subdivision in which the person is employed and which
imposes the tax nearest in miles to the person’s home.
   7.   The employer shall not deduct the tax but shall maintain adequate
records concerning the employees in the cases described in subsections .1 and
.2 of this Section.
      A.   It is the intent of this Section that no person shall be subject to
the payment of the local services tax in more than one municipality during each
payroll period. No taxpayer shall be required to pay more than $52 in total
during the calendar year. In the case of concurrent employment, an employer
shall refrain from withholding the local services tax, if the employee
provides:
         (1)   A recent pay statement from a principal employer that includes
the name of the employer, the length of the payroll period and the amount of
local services tax withheld; and
         (2)   A statement from the employee that the pay statement is from the
employee’s principal employer and the employee will notify other employers of a
change in principal place of employment within 2 weeks of its occurrence.
      B.   In the case of an employee claiming the exemption set forth at §
24-405.C, if (1) the employee has provided an exemption certificate to the
employer, (2) the collector has not otherwise instructed the employer, (3) the
employer has not received notification form the person who claimed the
exemption or from the collector that the person has received earned income and/
or net profits from all sources within the municipality equal to or in excess
of $12,000 in that calendar year or that the person is otherwise ineligible for
the tax exemption for that calendar year, and (4) the employer has not paid to
the person earned income within the municipality an amount equal to or in
excess of $12,000.
      C.   If a person has claimed exemption from the tax under §
24-405.C for a given calendar year but either (1) the employer has received
notification from the person who claimed the exemption or from the collector
that the person has received earned income and/or net profits from all sources
within the municipality equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that calendar year,
or (2) the employer has paid to the person earned income within the
municipality an amount equal to or in excess of $12,000 in that calendar year,
then the employer shall withhold the tax for the remainder of that calendar
year and the employer shall withhold from the person for the first payroll
period after receipt of the notification described in subparagraph (1) above or
for the first payroll period after payments described in subparagraph (2) above
have been made, a lump sum equal to the amount of the tax that was not withheld
from an person due to the exemption claimed by the person, plus the per payroll
amount due for that first payroll period. The amount of tax withheld per
payroll period for the remaining payroll periods in that calendar year shall be
the same amount withheld for other employees. In the event the employment of a
person subject to withholding of the tax under this subsection is subsequently
severed in that calendar year, the person shall be liable for any outstanding
balance of tax due and the collector may pursue collection under this Part.
      D.   Each employer shall ensure that exemption certificate forms are
readily available to employees at all times and shall furnish each new employee
with an exemption certificate from at the time of hiring and prior to the first
pay period of each calendar year.
      E.   A person seeking exemption from the tax under §
24-405.C must annually file an exemption certificate with the employer and the
collector.
      F.   Each employer within the municipality and each employer located
outside the municipality who engages in business within the municipality, is
hereby charged with the duty of collecting the tax from each of the employees
engaged by the employer and performing work for the employer within the
municipality.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-407.   Direct Payment by Taxpayers.
   Every taxpayer who is self-employed and has not filed an exemption
certification with the collector, or whose tax for any other reason is not
collected under §
24-406 of this Part, shall file a return on a form prescribed by the collector
and shall pay a pro rata share of the tax directly to the collector within 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter. The pro rata share of the tax
assessed on a taxpayer for a calendar quarter shall be determined by dividing
the rate of the tax levied ($52) for the calendar year by four.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-408.   Nonresident Taxpayers.
   Both resident and nonresident taxpayer shall, by virtue of engaging in an
occupation within the municipality, be subject to the tax and the provisions of
this Part.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-409.   Administration and Enforcement.
   The collector, on behalf of the municipality, shall collect and receive the
taxes,  interest, fines and penalties imposed by this Part, and shall maintain
records showing the amounts received and the dates such amounts were received.
The collector shall prescribe and issue all forms necessary for the
administration of the tax and shall enforce regulations adopted by the
governing body relating to any matter pertaining to the administration of this
Part including, but not limited to, requirements for collection through
employers, requirements for evidence and records, and provisions for the
examination and correction of returns. The collector  and any designated agents
may examine the records of any employer or supposed employer or of ay taxpayer
or supposed taxpayer in order to ascertain the tax due or verify the accuracy
of any return. Every employer or supposed employer and every taxpayer or
supposed taxpayer shall give the collector and any designated agent all means,
facilities and opportunity for the examinations hereby authorized. Any such
examination shall be conducted within this municipality or at the office where
the tax return is processed.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-410.   Suits for Collection of Tax.
   The municipality or its collector of the tax may collect unpaid taxes from
the taxpayer or employer owing such taxes by suit as provided for by Act 511 of
1965, as amended, known as the “Local Enabling Tax Act,” 53 P.S. § 6901 et seq.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-411.   Interests and Penalties for Unpaid Tax.
   1.   If for any reason the tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate of
6 percent per annum on the amount for said tax, and an additional penalty of ½
of 1 percent of the amount of unpaid tax for each month or fraction thereof
during which the tax remains unpaid, shall be added and collected. Where suit
is brought for the recovery of any such tax, the taxpayer or employer liable
for the tax shall, in addition, be liable for the costs of collection and the
interest herein imposed.
   2.   The penalties imposed under this Section shall be in addition to any
other penalty imposed by any other Section in this Part.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-412.   Fines and Penalties for Violation of this Part.
   1.   Any taxpayer or employer who fails, neglects, or refuses to make a
return required, any employer who fails, neglects or refuses to register or to
pay the tax deducted from employees, or fails, neglects, or refuses to deduct
or withhold the tax from employees, taxpayer or employer who refuses to permit
the collector to examine the books, records, and papers, and taxpayer or
employer who knowingly makes any incomplete, false or fraudulent return or
attempts to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full disclosure of the amount
of tax due in order to avoid the payment of the whole or any part of the tax
imposed shall, upon conviction thereof before the magisterial district judge be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $600 for each offense, and costs, and,
in default of said fines and costs be imprisoned for a period not exceeding  30
days. [Ord. 02-08]
   2.   The failure of taxpayer or employer to receive or procure forms
required for filing the required return does not excuse the taxpayer or
employer from the filing requirements.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-413.   Refunds.
   1.   Any person who has overpaid the tax may obtain a refund by making a
written application for a refund to the collector no later than 1 calendar year
after payment of the tax or 3 years after the due date for payment of the tax,
whichever is later, and satisfactorily proves to the collector that the
taxpayer is entitled to the refund. Refunds made within 75 days of a refund
request or 75 days after the last day the employer is required to remit the tax
to the collector for the last quarter of the calendar year, whichever is alter,
shall not be subject to interest imposed under 53 Pa.C.S.A. § 8426. A refund
shall be provided only for an amount overpaid in a calendar year that exceeds
$1.
   2.   Refund requests must be submitted on the form approved by the
collector. It should be noted that incomplete refund requests will be deferred
until the missing or incomplete information is provided. Refunds in the
deferred status are not subject to the payment of interest requirement.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-414.   Receipt.
   The collector shall provide a taxpayer a receipt of payment of the tax upon
request by the taxpayer. A stamped self-addressed envelope shall be furnished
by the taxpayer if a receipt via return mail is desired.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-415.   Applicability.
   The tax shall not apply to any subject of tax or person not within the
taxing power of the municipality under the Constitution of the Untied States
and the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
§ 24-416.   Duration.
   This Part shall continue in force from one calendar year to another without
annual re-enactment.
(Ord. 01-07, 12/19/2007, § 1)
Part 5
Fire Protection Tax
§ 24-501.   Title.
   This Part and any supplements and amendments thereto, shall be known and may
be cited as “Fire Protection Tax Ordinance.”
(Ord. O-81-1, 11/7/1981, § 1)
§ 24-502.   Definitions.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this Part, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except when the context or language
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Real property–all real estate within the Township made taxable for Township
purposes as ascertained by the last adjusted valuation for County purposes.
   Tax–the Fire Protection Tax in the amount 1 mill levied of by this Part.
   Tax collector–the person designated by the Supervisors of West Wheatfield
Township for the collection of Fire Protection Tax imposed by this Part.
(Ord. O-81-1, 11/7/1981, § 2)
§ 24-503.   Levy.
   For the purposes of making appropriations to fire companies both within and
without the Township, the Township of West Wheatfield hereby levies a tax of 1
mill on all taxable real property within the Township for the year 1982, and
each year thereafter until the tax imposed hereby shall be either amended or
repealed. This tax is in addition to all other taxes of any kind or nature
heretofore levied by the Township.
(Ord. O-81-1, 11/7/1981, § 3; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008)
§ 24-504.   Administration of Tax.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the Tax collector to accept and receive
payments of this tax and to keep a record thereof showing the amount received
by him from each owner of real property, together with the date the tax was
received.
   2.   The Supervisors of West Wheatfield Township are hereby charged with the
administration and enforcement of this Part and are hereby charged and
empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate rules and regulations relating to any
matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this Part. Any
person aggrieved by any decision of the Supervisors of West Wheatfield Township
shall have the right to appeal to the Court of Common Pleas of Indiana County,
as in other cases provided.
(Ord. O-81-1, 11/7/1981, § 4)
Part 6
Tax Penalty
§ 24-601.   Tax Penalty.
   In accordance with Indiana County Delinquent Tax Procedure the penalty for
delinquent tax will be raised to 10 percent from 5 percent for all taxes not
paid on due date. This Part to enable Tax collector to continue to use one card
for County and Township taxes and to save monies on extra mailing for the
Township.
(Res. R-6-81, 12/30/1981)
Part 7
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
§ 24-701.   General.
   1.   The rules and regulations attached hereto as Schedule 1 1  and
incorporated herein are hereby approved and adopted.
   2.   The disclosure statement, substantially in the form set forth in
Schedule 2 2  attached hereto and incorporated herein, is hereby approved and
adopted.
   3.   The form of petition for appeal and refund, substantially in the form
set form in Schedule 3 3 , attached hereto and incorporated herein, is hereby
approved and adopted.
   4.   The Board of Supervisors of West Wheatfield Township hereby determines
the administrative appeal procedures relating to petitions for appeal and
refund submitted by taxpayers in connection with the assessment, determination
or refund of an eligible tax under the LTBR shall be undertaken by the Board of
Supervisors of West Wheatfield Township and the Tax Collector of West
Wheatfield Township.
   5.   The administrative appeal procedures set forth in the rules and
regulations attached hereto and incorporated herein are hereby approved and
adopted.
   6.   This Part shall become effective in accordance with the provisions of
law and be applicable to eligible taxes as of January 1, 1999.
(Ord. O-1-99, 5/10/1999)
 
Notes
1    Editor’s Note: “Schedule 1" is attached to the original of Ord. O-1-99, 5/10/
  1999, and is on file at the Township Office.
2    Editor’s Note: “Schedule 2" is attached to the original of Ord. O-1-99, 5/10/
  1999, and is on file at the Township Office.
3    Editor’s Note: “Schedule 3" is attached to the original of Ord. O-1-99, 5/10/
  1999, and is on file at the Township Office.
Chapter 25
[Reserved]
Chapter 26
Water
Part 1
Wheatfield Water Authority
   §
26-101.   Connection Required
   §
26-102.   Unauthorized Connection
   §
26-103.   Duties of Supervisors
   §
26-104.   Standards of Connection
   §
26-105.   Rules and Regulations
   §
26-106.   Violations
   §
26-107.   Penalties
   §
26-108.   Duties of Authority
Part 1
Wheatfield Water Authority
§ 26-101.   Connection Required.
   Every owner of property situated within the West Wheatfield Township that
is: 1) used for separate dwelling purposes; 2) equipped for the preparation of
food; 3) used for a house, building, structure or personal property for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose; or, 4) used for
condominiums, multi-family dwellings, mobile home or recreational vehicle
sites, campgrounds or parks, multi-tenant, recreational, commercial, or
industrial purposes, whether permanent or temporary and whether immediate or in
the future, and that is located within 150 feet of the Highridge Water
Authority (the "Authority") water system or any part or extension of the system
shall connect such property to the Authority water system, including, but not
limited to any part, parcel or tract of land occupied or used as a house,
building, property for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or as a
building site, mobile home or recreational vehicle site, campground or park,
and each such occupancy or use shall be connected separately and independently
to the Authority water system unless this requirement is waived by the
Authority for good cause. Every property required to be connected to the public
water system shall have all other sources of water disconnected from its
plumbing service before connection to the public water system is made.
Connections shall be at the property owner's cost. Excluded from this
requirement are those industries and farms that have their own supply of water
but only for uses other than human consumption.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §1; as amended by Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §1)
§ 26-102.   Unauthorized Connection.
   It shall be a violation of this Part for any owner, lessee or any occupier
of a unit to: (1) permit any unauthorized use of water to any other property
owner or third person not properly connected to the public water system, or (2)
permit connection of any other water source to the Authority's system or a
property owner's water supply system that is connected to the public water
system, or (3) connect any unit to the public water system without approval of
the Authority as set forth in §
26-104.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §2; as amended by Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §2)
§ 26-103.   Duties of Supervisors.
   It shall be the duty of the Authority to notify the property owner of each
property in the designated area, which property meets the criteria set forth in
§
26-101 herein, that the property owner has 90 days after receipt of such notice
to connect to the Authority water system as required above. Such notice must be
in writing and shall be delivered to the property owner by mail, personal
service, posting on the property or by any other generally accepted means.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §3; as amended by Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §3)
§ 26-104.   Standards of Connection.
   After receipt of notice as provided above, each property owner of any
property, which property meets the criteria set forth in §
26-101 herein, shall, within 90 days, comply with the following conditions in
order to connect to the Authority’s water system:
      A.   File a completed application with the Authority on a form supplied
by the Authority, requesting permission to connect to the Authority's water
system.
      B.   Pay the required tap or connection fees if any as provided under the
rules and regulations of the Authority, as amended from time to time.
      C.   Permit a representative of the Authority full and complete access to
all water system facilities in each building in and about all parts of the
property.  No water connection line shall be covered over, or in any way
concealed, until after it has been inspected and approved by the Authority.
      D.   Obtain the Authority's approval of the connection after completion
of subsections A., B. and C. above.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §4; as amended by Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §4)
§ 26-105.   Rules and Regulations.
   The construction of all connections between properties and the Authority
water system shall be done in accordance with the specifications, plans and
procedures established by the Authority and maintained in the Authority water
system rules and regulations, as the same may be from time to time amended.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §5; as amended by Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §5)
§ 26-106.   Violations.
   If any property owner shall neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions
of this Part requiring connection(s) to the Authority water system, in addition
to any other remedy available, the Authority may enter upon the property and
construct the connection and recover the cost of such work by any lawful means.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §6; as amended by Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §6)
§ 26-107.   Penalties.
   In addition to any other remedy or penalty provided by law, any person who
shall violate this Part, upon conviction thereof in an action brought by the
Authority before a district justice in the manner provided for the enforcement
of summary offenses under the Pennsylvania Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall
be sentenced to pay a fine to the Authority of not more than $1,000 plus costs
and, in default of payment of said fine and costs, to a term of imprisonment
not to exceed 90 days. Each seven days that a violation shall continue shall be
deemed to be a separate offense and shall be assessed as such.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §7; as amended by Ord. 02-08, 9/8/2008; as amended by
Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §7)
§ 26-108.   Duties of Authority.
   The right to supply water to Township customers is hereby delegated and
assigned to the Authority, provided the Authority shall assume the duties,
obligations and financial liabilities within the scope of the water service
supplied in the Township and adopt mandatory rules and regulations governing
connection to and use of the water system. The cost of such water service shall
be paid by the consumers thereof at rates adopted by the Authority.
(Ord. 03-04, 5/10/2004, §10; as amended by Ord. 01-2016, 2/8/2016, §10)
Appendix
   The following ordinances and resolutions are no longer of general interest,
primarily because their provisions were carried out directly after their
enactment. Since they are mainly of historical or administrative interest, it
has not been considered necessary to include their entire text.  Instead, they
are arranged in groups, according to subject matter, and within each group
listed by title in chronological order. The content of the ordinances and
resolutions is indexed, in all necessary detail, in the general index at the
end of this volume. The annual budget and tax ordinances have been listed only
in the "Key to the Disposition of Ordinances."  Any person who desires to read
the full text of any of the ordinances or resolutions may do so by consulting
the original Ordinance Books on file in the Township offices.
   The enactments included in this Appendix are grouped under the following
headings:
   
A   Adjustments to Boundaries
   
B   Bond Issues and Loans
   
C   Franchises and Services
   
D   Governmental and Intergovernmental Affairs
   
E   Plan Approval
   
F   Public Property
   
G   Sewers
   
H   Streets and Sidewalks
   
I   Water
APPENDIX A
ADJUSTMENTS TO BOUNDARIES
   (Reserved for Future Enactments)
APPENDIX B
BOND ISSUES AND LOANS
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./ Date Subject
Res.
Res.  2/   Increase the indebtedness by the amount of $30,000 for the purpose of paying
R-1-  21/  the Township’s share of the cost of improving the roads of said Township by
20    1920 State aid.
Res.  2/   Authorize an election on the question of increasing the indebtedness by the
R-2-  21/  amount of $30,0000 for the purpose of paying the Township’s share of the cost
20    1920 of improving the roads of said Township by State aid.
Res.  2/   Increasing the indebtedness for the purpose of paying the Township’s share of
R-3-  21/  the cost of improving the roads of said Township by State aid by an issue of
20    1920 bonds to the amount of $30,000
Res.  3/8/ Signifying and expressing the desire of the Township Supervisors to incur a
R-1-  1924 bonded indebtedness by the amount of $60,0000 for the purpose of improving the
24         highways in said Township and of paying the Township’s share of cost thereof.
Res.  6/
R-3-  28/  Adoption of bonds of the amount of $30,0000.
24    1924
Res.  3/5/ Approving petitions and recommended improvement and type of reconstruction to
R-1-  1925 be reinforce concrete at a cost of $102,541.98 based upon the quantities and
25         unit prices shown on the low bid on file with the Department of Highways.
Res.  1/2/
R-1-  1926 Renewing note for $900 for 6 months to draw interest of $27
26
Res.  5/1/
R-4-  1926 Borrowing from Citizens National Bank of Bolivar, PA, for 30 days of $1,500.
26
Res.  5/   Increasing the bonded indebtedness for the purpose of improving the highways of
R-5-  28/  the said Township’s share of the cost thereof, by an issue of bonds in the
26    1926 amount of $60,000.
Res.  7/   Renewing the notes of Mrs. Lottie Lute for $4,000 and A.B. Lute for $450 with
R-2-  31/  interest paid for 6 months.
29    1929
Res.  8/
R-2-  31/  Renewing the note of Mrs. Lottie Lute and order drawn for interest.
30    1930
Res.  6/2/ Consenting to pay $1,000 to Citizens National Bank of Bolivar and get note for
R-1-  1931 3 months for $1,000 and pay interest.
31
Res.  8/   Renewing the notes for 1,000 of Mrs. Lottie Lute for 6 months and interest be
R-2-  31/  paid also and the note of Citizens National Bank of Bolivar, PA, due on 9/14
31    1931 for $1,000 for 90 days interest to be paid.
Res.  2/   Renewing note on Citizens National Bank of Bolivar and interest paid for $1,000
R-1-  29/  due March 14, 1932.
32    1932
Res.  5/   Renewing the note of Citizens National Bank of Bolivar for $1,000 for $800 for
R-2-  31/  3 months and pay $200 on principal and interest.
32    1932
Res.  8/
R-3-  31/  Renewing note of Mrs. Lottie Lute for $1,000 for 6 months and interest.
32    1932
Res.  9/   Borrowing from Citizens National Bank of Bolivar for 3 months $800 on 1932
R-4-  30/  taxes.
32    1932
Res.  11/
R-1-  1/   Funds transfer to Bolivar Fire Department
34    1934
Res.  4/5/ Issuing of Township bonds aggregating $60,000, dated and bearing interest 4/1/
R-1-  1941 1926, at the rate of 4 ¾% per annum.
41
Res.  8/3/ Borrowing $6,500 from New Florence National Bank to pay balance to Vern
R-1-  1953 Sherwin.
53
Res.  3/3/
R-2-  1963 Borrowing $1,500 to make payable till tax money is available.
63
Ord.  10/
O-01- 26/  Authorizing the incurrence of lease rental debt by guaranty agreement
10-89 1989
 
APPENDIX C
FRANCHISES AND SERVICES
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.      Date      Subject
Agr. 10/2/1976 10/2/1976 Agreement with Chestnut Ridge Cable Communications,
                         Inc.
Agr. 9/9/1983  9/9/1983  Agreement between Tele-Media Co. and Township
Res. R-4-83    9/9/1983  Tele-Media Co. of add’l franchise resolution
Res. R-5-83    11/4/1983 Highland Video Inc. to operate community antenna TV
                         system in Township
Res. R-1-93    9/13/1993 Extending Cable Franchise with TCI
Res. R-1-94    2/14/1994 TCI Cable Franchise
Ord. O-1-94    9/12/1994 TCI Franchise
Res. R-03-01   5/14/2001 Approving the transfer of the Cable Television
                         Franchise
Agr. 12/8/2003 12/8/2003 Cable Television Franchise Agreement
Agr._2/12/2018 2/12/2018 Per Capita Tax Collection Agreement
 
APPENDIX D
GOVERNMENTAL AND INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./    Date     Subject
Res.
Res. R-  2/15/    State-aid project construction of a public road near County Bridge over
2-26     1926     John’s Run
Res. R-  5/1/1926 Proposed maintenance of Route #3109
3-26
Res. R-  6/2/1926 Maintenance of Township roads using financial aid from state highway
6-26              department
Res. R-  7/2/1926 Agreement of Township to pay 50% construction cost of state road through
7-26              Township
Res. R-  10/21/   Purchase of road maintenance materials
8-26     1926
Res. R-  10/30/   Purchase of road maintenance material
9-26     1926
Res. R-  11/9/    Improvement of Old Clay Pike
10-26    1926
Res. R-  2/5/1927 Purchase of trucks for township use
1-27
Res. R-  2/5/1927 Agree to pay 50% of repair cost of state road #1041
2-27
Res. R-  2/5/1927 Agree to pay 50% of repair cost of state road #3652
3-27
Res. R-  10/1/    Authorizing execution of Highway Department Form 442 - a serial no. 6 and
5-27     1927     returning to cover extra work to amount of $149.80 on 30 inch corregated
                  metal pipe at station 25/90 covering the exact cost $5.35 per lineal foot.
Res. R-  5/31/    Request state aid for repair of bridge on Ridge Road
1-29     1929
Agr. 3/  3/30/    Designation of auditor to investigate corporate loan tax amounts.
30/1930  1930
Res. R-  5/16/    Purchase of road maintenance machinery and equipment
1-30     1930
Res. R-  9/30/    Designation of auditor to recover any over-paid taxes.
4-31     1931
Res. R-  7/8/1954 Appointment of supervisor to fill unexpired term
1-54
Res. R-  12/11/   Participation of employees in social security
2-54     1954
Res. R-  12/7/    Appointment of police officers in the Township pursuant to § 590, of the
1-57     1957     Second Class Township Code, 53 P.S. § 65590.
Ord. O-  12/6/    Purchase of road maintenance equipment
58-1     1958
Res. R-  10/7/    Department of Forests and Waters to undertake improvement of a run in
1-61     1961     Township to prevent flooding.
Res. R-  1/1/1962 Establish salary for road maintenance personnel
1-62
Res. R-  3/3/1962 Loyalty Oath
3-62
Res. R-  5/2/1964 Maintenance of Township road 805, 605, at county aid project
2-64
Res. R-  6/6/1964 State aid project maintenance of Township roads 716, 704
3-64
Res. R-  5/8/1965 Maintenance of Township road 702 as county aid project
2-65
Res. R-  6/5/1965 Maintenance of Township road 605 as county aid project
3-65
Res. R-  5/14/    Maintenance of Township road 708
3-66     1966
Res. R-  6/4/1966 Maintenance of Township road 708 as county aid project
4-66
Res. R-  11/5/    Designating official garbage dump
5-66     1966
Res. R-  12/3/    Planning requirements, Act 537
6-66     1966
Res. R-  5/6/1967 County aid project road maintenance in town of Robinson
2-67
Res. R-  5/6/1967 State-aid project repair of Township road 603
3-67
Res. R-  5/27/    Appointment of sewage enforcement officer
4-67     1967
Res. R-  7/1/1967 Maintain ½% wage tax
6-67
Res. R-  5/4/1968 State aid project road maintenance of T-716
2-68
Res. R-  5/4/1968 Maintenance of T-708 county aid project
3-68
Res. R-  11/2/    Assume responsibility of maintenance for Pinkerton Crossroads Park
5-68     1968
Res. R-  2/21/    Highland video, permission to construct community antenna television system
1-69     1969
Res. R-  4/5/1969 State aid project maintenance of T-605
2-69
Res. R-  4/5/1969 County aid project maintenance of T-702 from T-202
3-69
Res. R-  5/2/1970 State aid project maintenance of T-603
1-70
Res. R-  5/2/1970 County aid project maintenance of T-708
2-70
Res. R-  4/3/1971 Prepare solid waste management plan
1-71
Res. R-  5/1/1971 Maintenance of Township roads 805, 806, 807, 808, 809, County aid project and
2-71              maintenance of Township roads 603, 605, state aid project
Res. R-  11/6/    Support Indiana County Planning Commission in projects to receive funds for
4-71     1971     access roads
Res. R-  4/1/1972 Maintenance of Township roads 712 and state aid project
1-72
Res. R-  8/5/1972 Agent named to file application for federal financial assistance
3-72
Res. R-  9/2/1972 Agree to adopt Indiana County Civil Defense operational plan
4-72
Res. R-  10/7/    Gas shortage resolution
5-72     1972
Res. R-  4/6/1973 State aid project maintenance of Township road 714
2-73
Res. R-  9/1/1973 Transfer of insurance funds, 50% to Bolivar, 50% to New Florence
3-73
Res. R-  5/4/1974 Maintenance of Township roads T-724, T-708
1-74
Res. R-  10/1/    Transfer of Fire Insurance Tax Fund
2-74     1974
Res. R-  6/5/1975 Use liquid fuels fund for road repairs
1-75
Res. R-  8/2/1975 Solid Waste Management Plan
2-75
Res. R-  9/6/1975 Adopt operations plan of Indiana County Civil Defense
3-75
Res. R-  9/16/    Fire protection agreement with Bolivar Volunteer Fire Company
5-75     1975
Res. R-  7/24/    Use of liquid fuels fund for road repairs
1-76     1976
Res. R-  7/24/    Acceptance of low bid for road repair materials
2-76     1976
Res. R-  10/2/    Announcement of desire to participate in National Flood Insurance Program
2A-76    1976
Res. R-  10/2/    Compliance with National Flood Insurance Program regulations
3-76     1976
Res. R-  6/11/    Application to Pennsylvania Department of Commerce Site Development grant
3-77     1977     program to improve Township road T-704
Res. R-  7/26/    Appointment of Township Secretary as liason to apply for disaster relief
4-77     1977
Res. R-  9/10/    Application for use of liquid fuels fund for road repairs
5-77     1977
Res. R-  9/10/    Establishment of account for site development
6-77     1977
Ord. O-  9/10/    Intent to organize Tri-Community Water and Sewer Authority and provisions of
77-3     1977     incorporation.
Res. R-  2/4/1978 Supply DER with materials and services for stream clearance
1-78
Res. R-  2/4/1978 Supply DER with materials and services for stream clearance
2-78
Res. R-  4/1/1978 Participation in Delineation Demonstration Program
3-78
Res. R-  5/4/1978 State aid project, maintenance of T-716
5-78
Res. R-  5/6/1978 Model resolution from CDA
6-78
Res. R-  5/6/1978 Grant authorization for construction or upgrading of recreation area and
7-78              facilities
Res. R-  5/6/1978 Authorization to file application for elimination of blight project.
8-78
Res. R-  12/2/    Authorizes redevelopment authority to file application for financial assists.
11-78    1978
Res. R-  2/3/1979 Declaration that DER undertake stream clearance work on Richard’s Run.
1-79
Agr. 7/  7/17/    North Cambria Fuel agrees to pay for repairs and maintenance of T-724 in
17/1979  1979     exchange for privilege to use road
Res. R-  8/4/1979 State aid project, maintenance of T-605
2-79
Res. R-  9/1/1979 County aid project snow removal
3-79
Res. R-  10/13/   Request State grant for prevention and elimination of blight
4-79     1979
Res. R-  10/13/   Authorize Township to enter cooperation agreement with Redevelopment
5-79     1979     Authority
Res. R-  11/3/    Request for state redevelopment grant for Huff Redevelopment Project.
6-79     1979
Res. R-  11/3/    Authorization to enter into Township-County Redevelopment Agreement (Huff
8-79     1979     Disaster Project).
Res. R-  11/3/    Approval for redevelopment area plan and redevelopment proposal for Huff
9-79     1979     Disaster Project.
Agr. 11/ 11/3/    Cooperation Agreement with Redevelopment Authority
3/1979   1979
Res. R-  7/12/    Use of liquid fuels fund for road repairs
1-80     1980
Res. R-  9/6/1980 Authorizing the participation of the Township in the Cambria-Somerset Council
2-80              of Governments Stormwater Management Plan
Agr. 10/ 10/10/   Right-of-way agreement for turnaround to maintain Lauren Lane
10/1980  1980
Res. R-  12/30/   Use of liquid fuels fund fo road repairs for fiscal year, 1981
5-80     1980
Agr. 5/  5/2/1981 Renewal of license and restatement of terms
2/1981
Res. R-  12/5/    Use of State liquid fuels monies for maintenance of existing roads
1-81     1981
Res. R-  4/2/1983 Intention to file Articles of Incorporation for Wheatfield Water Authority
1-83
Res. R-  4/2/1983 Authorizing the removal of pavement in the Huff Disaster Redevelopment
2-83              Project
Res. R-  6/4/1983 Agree to participate in cooperative municipal management program
3-83
Res. R-  4/7/1984 Increase number of members of Wheatfield Water Authority
2-84
Agr. 4/  4/11/    Agreement for preparation and adoption of a Solid Waste Management Plan
11/1985  1985
Res. R-  4/11/    Designating Mike Barbus as the chief administrative officer for the purpose
2-85     1985     of certifying information to the Department of Auditor General relative to
                  Municipal Pension Fund
Res. R-  10/5/    Passing a mandatory conservation ordinance for Wheatfield Water Authority
2A-85    1985
Res. R-  12/6/    Authorizing the filing of an application with DCA for a County-Wide Flood
2-86     1986     Protection Program
Res. R-  2/9/1987 Flashing warning lights Florence Mining
3-87
Res. R-  3/5/1987 Champion Municipal lease agreement 
4-87
Res. R-  3/9/1987 Procedures for disposition of records.
6-87
Res. R-  6/8/1987 Flashing warning lights Florence Mining
7-87
Res. R-  4/14/    Plan Revision Act 537
1-88     1988
Res. R-  4/11/    Authorizing Clyde Volunteer Fire Company to participate in fund raising
2-88     1988     activities, participates in civil and social activities.
Res. R-  5/9/1988 Adoption of the Industrial County Solid Waste Management Plan
3-88
Res. R-  5/9/1988 Robinson Community Building Project designate savings and trust as depository
4-88
Res. R-  6/13/    Cooperation agreement to administer the Community Block Grant Wheatfield
5-88     1988     Water
Res. R-  7/11/    Declaring the intent to follow procedures for disposition of records as set
6-88     1988     forth in the retention and disposition schedule for records of Pennsylvania
                  Municipalities.
Res. R-  2/24/    Approving the licensing of qualifying clubs and charitable organizations to
01-02-89 1989     conduct shall games of chance.
Res. R-  10/9/    Memorializing the Pa State Legislative to act on Tort Reform Legislative
02-10-89 1989
Res. R-  7/9/1990 Approving the application and program for the 1990 Discretionary Community
01-07-90          Development Block Grant.
Res. R-  7/9/1990 Approving a cooperation agreement for the administration of the 1990
02-07-90          Community Development Block Grant.
Res. R-  9/10/    Authorizing municipalities to impose fair and equitable impact fees on new
03-09-90 1990     development to pay for the costs of the infrastructure improvements needed to
                  serve that development.
Res. R-  6/10/    Authorizing the signing of a cooperation agreement between the Township of
03-06-91 1991     West Wheatfield and the Indiana County Commissioners to apply for and
                  administer the 1991 Community Development Block Grant Discretionary Program.
Res. R-  6/10/    Support and passage of Pennmove
04-06-91 1991
Res. R-  10/14/   Authorizing sale fo Wheatfield water
05-10-91 1991
Res. R-  12/21/   Reclamation statement Emergency Management Service Code
08-12-91 1991
Res. R-  6/8/1992 Procedures for disposition of records.
2-92
Ord. O-  12/14/   Providing for the exemption of improvements to certain deteriorated
03-12-92 1992     industrial, commercial and other property and providing for the procedure for
                  implementation of such exemption.
Res. R-  4/11/    Community Block Grant - Climax Water
2-94     1994
Ord. O-  9/12/    Warranty Lease Agreement for Tri-Community - $100,000
02-94    1994
Res. R-  7/10/    Plan revision
03-95    1995
Res. R-  10/9/    Authorizing the Conemaugh Valley Conservancy, Inc. to submit a Pennsylvania
04-95    1995     Rivers Conservation program grant application to the Pennsylvania Department
                  of Conservation and Natural Resources.
Res. R-  3/11/    Application to be signed by Secretary for Disaster Relief
01-03-96 1996
Res. R-  3/11/    PEMA & FEMA Relief
02-03-96 1996
Res. R-  –/–/Application for County Aid - remove debri from Richards Run
02-96
Res. R-  –/–/Application for an allocation of County liquid fuels tax - repair storm
03-96             drains village of Robinson
Ord. O-           Providing for the exemption of improvements to certain deteriorated
01-04-96 4/8/1996 industrial, commercial and other property and providing for the procedure for
                  implementation of such exemption.
Res. R-  7/7/1997 Procedures for disposition of records.
01-97
Res. R-  –/–/Agility Agreement
02-97
Res. R-  –/–/Agility Agreement
03-97
Res. R-3 –/–/Application for Grant
Res. R-  1/5/1998 Operation of certain establishments prohibited without local option.
01-98
Res. R-  –/–/Authorize signature to sign for DCNR contract
03-98
Res. R-  –/–/Approving modules for deveopment
04-98
Ord. O-  3/9/1998 Electing to enroll in the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement System.
1-98
Agr. 3/  3/9/1998 Municipal Employee Pension Plan Agreement
9/1988
Res. R-  2/8/1999 Procedures for disposition of records.
01-99
Res. R-  –/–/Emergency medical services joint primary providers
01A-99
Res. R-  –/–/Subdivision - Ed Foust
02-99
Res. R-  –/–/Simple Subdivision - Sandra Rommano
03-99
Res. R-  –/–/Subdivision
04-99
Res. R-  3/13/    Recognizing West Wheatfield Township Robinson Community Club a civic and
01-00    2000     service association pursuant to P.L. 1262, No. 156.
Res. R-  –/–/Cooperation agreement with Indiana County Community for CDBG Grant monies
02-00
Res. R-  –/–/State liquid fuel project
03-00
Res. R-  2/12/    Intent to change depository for the funds of the Township.
01-01    2001
Res. R-  2/12/    Procedures for disposition of records.
02-01    2001
Res. R-  –/–/Designate Promister as depository for funds for playground project
04-01
Res. R-  2/11/    Procedures for disposition of records.
01-02    2002
Res. R-  4/8/2002 Recognizing Citizens’ Ambulance Service, Inc. and Tri- Community Ambulance
02-02             Association as joint providers of emergency medical service.
Res. R-  –/–/Plan revision - Ricky Rager - holding tank
03-02
Res. R-  –/–/Authorizing Chairman of the Board of Supervisors sign Agility Agreement
04-02
Res. R-  –/–/Signature on bank account due to bank name change and the bank having
05-02             duplicate account numbers
Res. R-  11/11/   To Appoint a chief administrative officer for the pension plan
06-02    2002
Res. R-  –/–/Plan revision - Rager subdivision
09-02
Res. R-  2/10/    Prepare, maintain and keep current an emergency operations plan for the
01-03    2003     prevention and minimization of injury and damage caused by a major emergency
                  or disaster.
Res. R-  2/10/    Adopting of the sexual harassment policy.
02-03    2003
                  Contingently exempting from  real property tax, earned income tax, net
Ord. 02- 4/29/    profits tax, mercantile and business privilege tax within a special
04       2004     geographic area designated as an enhancement to the southwestern Pennsylvania
                  Keystone opportunity expansion zone.
Agr. 6/  6/14/    Agreeing to designate the Indiana County Office of Planning and Development
14/2004  2004     to administer the 2004 Community Development Block Grant Competitive Program
                  on behalf of the Township
Res. R-  6/14/    Providing required administration and enforcement to comply with the
01-04    2004     Pennsylvania Construction Code (Act 45)/ Uniform Construction Code.
Res. R-  6/14/    Disposal of records according to statutory requirements.
02-04    2004
Res. R-  10/10/   Implementing the National Incident Management System
01-05    2005
Res. R-  5/15/    Authorizing disposal of certain records pursuant to the Retention and
01-06    2006     Disposition of Municipal Records Schedules
Res. R-  6/12/    Naming the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors as the person authorized to
02-06    2006     sign all documents pertinent to the relocation of the Township office.
Res. R-  7/10/    Adopting the Indiana County Hazard Mitigation Program
03-06    2006
Res. R-  11/13/   Opposing Statewide cable franchising legislation in Pennsylvania.
05-06    2006
Res. R-  4/9/2007 Authorizing participation in the PACC Automotive and Equipment Contract
01-07             administered by the City of Harrisburg.
Supp.
III;              Authorizing the signing of a cooperation agreement between the Township of
revised  5/14/    West Wheatfield and the Indiana County Commissioners to apply for and
7/12/    2007     administer 2007 Community Development Block Grant Nonentitlement Program.
2010Res.
R-02-07
Res. R-  6/11/    Applying for County aid in the amount of $268,450.00 to pave Township Road
03-07    2007     No. T841, known as Clay Pike Road, from the intersection of T.R. 22 to
                  Township Road No. T605, known as Gamble Road for approximately 2.51 miles.
                  Applying for County aid in the amount of $198,930.00 to pave Township Road
Res. R-  6/11/    No. T841, known as Clay Pike Road, from the intersection of T605, Township
04-07    2007     road known as Gamble Road, south to the intersection of State Route 2008,
                  known as Climax Road.
Res. R-  6/11/    Declaring the Township’s intent to follow the procedure for disposition of
05-07    2007     records as set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
Res. R-  11/10/   Agreeing to use the dotGrants system to file the required Liquid Fuels forms
04-08    2008     annually including, but not limited to, the MS-965, MS-329 and MS-999.
                  Declaring the Townships intent to follow the procedure for disposition of
Res. R-           records as set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for Records of
01-09    2/9/2009 Pennsylvania. The Township of West Wheatfield desires to dispose of records
                  according to statutory requirements and by extending the requirements to 10
                  years.
                  Appointing one voting delegate and one or more alternate delegates to be the
Res. R-  7/13/    Township’s Tax Collection Committee (TCC) representatives. The purpose of
02-09    2009     this resolution is to appoint the required delegates. The appointed
                  individuals have consented to appointment.
                  Electing to change the benefits in the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement
Ord. 01- 5/13/    System under Article IV of the Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law:
09       2009     Agreeing to be bound by all provisions of the Pennsylvania Municipal
                  Retirement Law as amended and as applicable to member municipalities changing
                  benefits.
Res. R-  11/9/    Desiring to participate in the joint bid program through SHACOG for the
03-09    2009     acquisition of a truck and/or ancillary equipment
                  Applying for County aid in the amount of $109,292.70 to pave Township Road
Res. R-  11/9/    No. T841, known as Clay Pike Road, from the intersection of T.R. 22 south to
04-09    2009     Township Road No. T716, known as Bethel Cemetery Road for approximately 1.28
                  miles.
Res. R-           Adopting the updated Emergency Operations Plan for West Wheatfield Township
01-10    2/8/2010 as presented by the Emergency Management Coordinator, Robert A. Ofman, on
                  February 8, 2010.
Res. R-  5/10/    Authorizing Jean Yarnal, Secretary/Treasurer, to execute DR1898 for and in
03-10    2010     behalf of the Township.
Res. R-  3/14/    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
2A-11    2011     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
                  Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
                  board to execute an agreement with Berkheimer whereunder Berkheimer is
                  retained as the exclusive tax officer for the collection, administration,
                  receipt and enforcement of the provisions of the respective tax enactment of
Res. R-  9/12/    the governing board levying and assessing the local services tax for the term
2B-11    2011     herein defined, together with such extensions as may be agreed upon, said tax
                  enactment having been adopted under and pursuant to the authority of the
                  Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act (Act 511, P.L.1257; and approving and
                  adopting the rules and regulations prepared by Berkheimer to administer and
                  enforce the local service tax.
                  Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
Res. R-  9/12/    board to appoint a liason between it and Berkhemier, the duly appointed
3-11     2011     collector of local taxes for the district, for the express purpose of sharing
                  confidential tax information with the district for official purposes.
                  Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
Res. R-  9/12/    board to appoint a liason between it and Berkheimer, the duly appointed
4-11     2011     collector of local services tax for the district, for the express purpose of
                  sharing confidential tax information with the district for official purposes.
Res. R-  9/12/    Appointing EMA Coordinator for Township.
5-11     2011
                  Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
                  board to execute an agreement with Berkheimer whereunder Berkheimer is
                  retained as the exclusive Tax Officer for the collection, administration,
                  receipt and enforcement of the provisions of the respective tax enactment of
Res. R-  9/12/    the governing board levying and assessing the local services tax for the term
6-11     2011     herein defined, together with such extensions as may be agreed upon, said tax
                  enactment having been adopted under and pursuant to
                  the authority of the Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act (Act 511, P.L.
                  1257); and approving and adopting the rules and regulations prepared by
                  Berkheimer to administer and enforce the local services tax.
                  Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
Res. R-  9/12/    board to appoint Berkheimer as its Tax Hearing Officer under and pursuant to
7-11     2011     the Local Taxpayers Bill of Rights for the express purpose of adjudicating
                  appeals thereunder.
Res. R-  9/12/    Authorizing and empowering its local tax collector, Berkheimer, to impose and
8-11     2011     retain costs of collection on delinquent taxes.
Res. R-  2/13/    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
1-12     2012     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
Res. R-  2/13/    Adopting the Indiana County 2011 Hazard Mitigation Plan as the official
2-12     2012     Hazard Mitigation Plan of the Township.
Res. R-  2/13/    Adopting the updated Emergency Operations Plan for Township as presented by
3-12     2012     the Emergency Management Coordinator, Robert A. Ofman on February 13, 2012.
Res. R-  2/11/    Declaring the intention to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
1-13     2013     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
                  Making the following supplemental appropriations for the 2013 budget from
Res. R-  8/12/    these impact fee revenues: $18,264.28 will be appropriated in the 2013 budget
2-13     2013     and be used for paying down note 00200 from S & T Bank for purchase of 2012
                  Ford F550 Dump Truck, charged to Account Number 430.74 (Major Equipment
                  Purchase).
Res. R-  –/–/2Agility Agreement No. A32055.
4-13
Res. R-  2/10/    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
1-14     2014     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
Res. R-  2/10/    Adopting the updated Emergency Operations Plan for Township as presented by
2-14     2014     the Emergency Management Coordinator, Robert A. Ofman on February 10, 2014.
Res. R-  9/8/2014 Approving amended and restated declaration of trust.
4-14
                  Authorizing two or more municipalities to delegate municipal powers to one
                  local management coordinator for local management/coordinator of the
Res. R-  10/13/   Pennsylvania Emergency Management Services Code, 35 Pa.C.S. § 7101 et seq.,
5-14     2014     as amended and 35 Pa.C.S. § 7503(1), and has determined that participation
                  will be beneficial and convenient for its residents both in terms of cost and
                  efficiency of administration all of which protect and preserve the health,
                  safety and welfare of its citizens.
Res. R-  10/13/   Procuring professional services for the Municipal Pension System(s) sponsored
6-14     2014     by the Township based on the requirement of Act 44 of 2009.
Ord. 1-           Authorizing the participation of the Township in the Pennsylvania Townships
15       1/5/2015 Health Insurance Cooperative Trust pursuant to the Pennsylvania
                  Intergovernmental Cooperation Law.
Ord. 2-           Authorizing the participation of the Township in the PSATS Unemployment
15       1/5/2015 Compensation Group Trust pursuant to the Pennsylvania Intergovernmental
                  Cooperation Law.
Res. R-           Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
1-15     2/9/2015 set forth in the retention and disposable schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
                  Electing to amend its municipal pension plan administered by the Pennsylvania
Ord._03- 11/9/    Municipal Retirement System pursuant to Article IV of the Pennsylvania
15       2015     Municipal Retirement Law; agreeing to be bound by all provisions of the
                  Pennsylvania Municipal Retirement Law as amended and as applicable to member
                  municipalities.
Res._R-  3/14/    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
2-16     2016     set forth in the retention and disposable schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
Res._R-  2-13-    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
1-17     2017     set forth in the retention and disposal schedule for record in Pennsylvania.
Res._R-  2-12-    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
1-18     2018     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
                  Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
Res._R-  2-12-    board to appoint a liaison between it and Berkheimer, the duly appointed
2-18     2018     collector of the per capita tax for the district, for the express purpose of
                  sharing confidential tax information with the district for official purposes.
                  Authorizing, empowering and directing the proper officers of the governing
                  board to execute an agreement with Berkheimer whereunder Berkheimer is
Res._R-  2-12-    retained as the exclusive Tax Collector for the collection of delinquent per
3-18     2018     capita taxes for the term herein defined, together with such extensions as
                  may be agreed upon, said tax enactment having been adopted under and pursuant
                  to the authority of the Pennsylvania Local Tax Enabling Act (Act 511, P.L.
                  1257).
Res._R-  2-12-    Authorizing and empowering its local tax collector, Berkheimer, to impose and
4-18     2018     retain costs of collection on delinquent taxes.
Res._R-  8-13-    Adopting the 2018 Indiana County Hazard Mitigation Plan.
5-18     2018
Res._R-  8-13-    Authorizing the filing of a grant application to the U.S. Department of
7-18     2018     Commerce, Economic Development Administration.
Res._R-  3-11-    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
3-19     2019     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
Res._R-  5-11-    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
1-20     2020     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
Res._R-  5-11-    Authorizing to implement Act 15 of 2020's property tax relief provisions.
2-20     2020
Res._R-  3-8-2021 Waiving fees or penalties on the 2021 tax on assessed value of real estate.
2-21
                  Appointing a certified or competent public accountant or a firm of certified
Res._R-           or competent public accountants, registered in the Commonwealth of
3-21     3-8-2021 Pennsylvania, to make an examination of all the township’s accounts for the
                  fiscal year 2020 and establishing the compensation to be paid by the township
                  for the examination.
Res._R-  4-12-    Declaring its intent to follow the procedure for disposition of records as
4-21     2021     set forth in the Retention and Disposable Schedule for records of
                  Pennsylvania.
                 
 
 
 
APPENDIX E
PLAN APPROVAL
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./Res.     Date       Subject
Res. R-4-68   11/2/1968  Development application for Pinkerton Crossroads Park.
Res. R-1-77   1/8/1977   Revision for Penn View Mountain Estates Plan sent to
                         DER.
Res. R-2-77   5/7/1977   Revision and approval of Penn View Mountain Estates
                         Plan.
Res. R-9-78   5/6/1978   Plan revision for Paul S. McGrath Plan of woods.
Res. R-1-82   7/10/1982  Plan revision - Robert Boldin
Res. R-5-84   8/4/1984   Plan revision for Central Preparation Plants
Res. R-1-85   4/11/1985  Plan revision for Trinity Woods Addition
Res. R-1-86   9/6/1986   Plan revision for Mine - D Seam Shaft
Res. R-1-87   1/5/1987   Plan revision for Hesbon Mine
Res. R-5-87   3/9/1987   Plan revision for holding tank at a new guard gate
Res. R-02-95  6/12/1995  Plan revision for small commercial flow holding for
                         Robert M. Krause
Res. R-02-98  2/9/1998   Plan revision for small flow holding tank for Faith
                         Lutheran Church
Res. R-06A-06 11/13/2006 Plan revision for holding tanks for Lloyd Paynter
 
APPENDIX F
PUBLIC PROPERTY
   (Reserved for Future Enactments)
APPENDIX G
SEWERS
Ord./Res. Date Subject
Ord./ Date  Subject
Res.
Res.  12/
R-5-  14/   Granting application for sewage facilities plan
74    1974
Agr.  8/2/
8/2/  1975  Establishment of Indiana County Joint Sewage Enforcement Agency
1975
Res.  11/6/
R-4-  1976  Sewage Permit for Florence Mine No. 3 Bath House
76
Res.  8/12/ Adoption of preliminary sewage study report for tri- community water and sewer
R-10- 1978  authority
78
Agr.  2/4/  Agreement between Township’s and Borough of Bolivar concerning Tri-Community
2/4/  1984  Water and Sewer Authority
1984
Res.  4/7/
R-1-  1984  Plan Revision - Act 537 - Tri-Community Water and Sewer Authority
84
Ord.  2/2/  Authorizing the installation of 6 holding tanks in West Wheatfield Township by
O-85- 1985  the Pennsylvania Electric Company
2
Res.  2/9/  Improvements to the Township which will result from the water service to be
R-2-  1987  provided by the Wheatfield Water Authority.
87
Res.
R-04- –/Holding tank resolution for General Trade Corp and Maple Mountain.
06
Res.  10/8/ Approving a revision to the Official Sewage Facilities Plan by John Devarmin,
R-06- 2007  Jr. for John Devarmin, Jr. - Residential Site - SFTF for new treatment
07          facility and Small Flow Treatment Facility (SFTF).
Res.  12/   Authorizing DSI Ground Support under Sewage Application Number V004678 desires
R-09- 10/   to secure a holding tank permit in West Wheatfield Township for Small
07    2007  Commercial Flow.
Res.  1/7/  Authorizing Indiana County Parks under Sewage Application Number V004686
R-01- 2008  desires to secure a holding tank permit in West Wheatfield Township for
08          Buttermilk Falls.
Res.  3/10/ Authorizing New Enterprise Stone & Lime under Sewage Application Number
R-02- 2008  V004691 desires to secure a holding tank permit in West Wheatfield Township
08          for Construction Field Offices. (Temp.)
Res.  2/7/  Holding tank resolution for Gen On for managing sanitary wastewater at an
R-1-  2011  industrial wastewater treatment plant.
11
Res.  9/9/  Holding tank resolution for General Trade Corp. for sewage holding tank for
R-3-  2013  new security/guard house.
13
 
APPENDIX H
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   This appendix contains an alphabetical listing of streets; and, under each
street, a listing of all ordained activities.
Name Activity Location Ord./Res. Date
Name       Activity   Location                                                                     Ord./ Date
                                                                                                   Res.
Bridge                                                                                             Ord.  10/
Street     Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Catherine                                                                                          Ord.  12/
Street     Vacate     From Harrison Avenue to an unnamed alley                                     O-84- 1/
                                                                                                   6     1984
Centre                                                                                             Ord.  10/
Street     Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Cherry                                                                                             Ord.  10/
Alley      Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Chestnut              From Township Road westward a distance of about 1450 feet to Jefferson       Res.  12/
Street     Accept     Street                                                                       R-3-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Clover                From South line to John Street in a northerly direction a distance of 400    Res.  7/2/
Alley      Accept     feet                                                                         R-2-  1960
                                                                                                   60
Clover                                                                                             Res.  7/2/
Alley      Rename     Clover Avenue                                                                R-1-  1960
                                                                                                   60
Clover                                                                                             Res.  7/2/
Avenue     Convey     In Town of Centervills                                                       R-1-  1960
                                                                                                   60
                                                                                                   Ord.  10/
Coal Alley Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
                                                                                                   Ord.  12/
Elm Street Vacate     Southerly direction 445 feet from the southern line of lot                 O-84- 1/
                                                                                                   6     1984
                      Southerly direction 245 from the northern line of Catherine Street to its    Ord.  12/
Elm Street Vacate     terminus                                                                     O-84- 1/
                                                                                                   6     1984
First                                                                                              Res.  2/2/
Street     Convey     In Mrs. W. H. Trimm Plan of Lots                                             R-1-  1963
                                                                                                   63
Franklin                                                                                           Ord.  10/
Street     Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Front                                                                                              Res.  12/
Street     Accept     From Jefferson Street eastward a distance of about 200 feet to Front Street  R-3-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Harrison              From Mary Street northward a distance of about 654 feet to Robinson Street   Res.  12/
Avenue     Accept     of a width of 45 feet                                                        R-2-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Hickory                                                                                            Ord.  10/
Lane       Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Jackson                                                                                            Res.  12/
Street     Accept     From Spring Street southward a distance of about 508 feet to Front Street    R-3-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Jefferson                                                                                          Res.  12/
Street     Accept     From Chestnut Street southward a distance of about 325 feet to Front Street  R-3-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
T723
Kettle     Vacate     Beyond .23 miles starting from the intersection of Route 22                  Ord.  1/3/
Hollow                                                                                             4-16  2017
Road
                                                                                                   Res.  12/
L.R. 32007 Transfer   From Station 0+00 to Station 130+56 a distance of 2.4727 miles               R-3-  6/
                                                                                                   86    1986
                                                                                                   Res.  6/2/
L.R. 32010 Transfer   From Station 0+00 to Station 36+49 a distance of 0.6912 miles                R-4-  1984
                                                                                                   84
                                                                                                   Res.  6/2/
L.R. 32012 Transfer   From Station 0+00 to Station 309+00 a distance of 5.8524 miles               R-3-  1984
                                                                                                   84
                                                                                                   Res.  4/8/
L.R. 32121 Transfer   From Station 0+00 to Station 86+73 a distance of 1.642 miles                 R-02- 1991
                                                                                                   04-91
Lauren     Lay out,   A roadway 50 feet in the Trinity Woods Plan of Lots from its intersection    Ord.  11/
Lane       Open and   with Merritt Lane in said Plan                                               O-80- 1/
           Establish                                                                               2     1980
Liberty                                                                                            Ord.  10/
Street     Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Locust                                                                                             Ord.  10/
Alley      Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Locust                                                                                             Res.  12/
Street     Accept     From Spring Street southward a distance of about 252 feet to Chestnut Street R-3-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Maple                 In the Village of Robinson between Route 259, also known as High Street, on  Ord.
Alley      Vacate     the east and going in a westerly direction to Spruce Alley for approximately O-03-
                      86 feet                                                                      08
Mary                  From Harrison Avenue westward a distance of about 575 feet to High Street of Res.  12/
Street     Accept     a width of 33 feet                                                           R-2-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
McKinley              From Mary Street northward a distance of about 615 feet to Robinson Street   Res.  12/
Avenue     Accept     of a width of 45 feet                                                        R-2-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Meritt     Lay out,   A roadway 50 feet in the Trinity Woods Plan of Lots from its intersection    Ord.  11/
Lane       Open and   with Township Road 716 to its intersection with Legislative Route 32012      O-80- 1/
           Establish                                                                               2     1980
Mulberry                                                                                           Ord.  10/
Alley      Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
                                                                                                   Ord.  10/
Oak Alley  Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Penn                                                                                               Ord.  10/
Street     Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Perry                 From South line to John Street in a northerly direction a distance of 433    Res.  7/2/
Street     Accept     feet                                                                         R-2-  1960
                                                                                                   60
Perry                                                                                              Res.  7/2/
Street     Convey     In Town of Centerville                                                       R-1-  1960
                                                                                                   60
Pike                                                                                               Ord.  10/
Street     Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
                                                                                                   Ord.  10/
Plum Alley Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Shellbark                                                                                          Res.  5/8/
Road       Name       North of US Traffic Route 22                                                 R-01- 1995
                                                                                                   95
Shoup Road Relocating Property of Cecil Lindsey, Judy Lindsey, his wife and Bertha Lindsey 1
Spring                From Webster Street westward a distance of about 425 feet to Washington      Res.  12/
Street     Accept     Street                                                                       R-3-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Strawberry                                                                                         Ord.  10/
Alley      Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Sugar                                                                                              Ord.  10/
Alley      Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
                                                                                                   Ord.  2/5/
T-716      Vacate     Portion                                                                      O-83- 1983
                                                                                                   1
                      Northward by Pinkerton Crossroads to the Wm. Penn Highway at Ada Walbeck’s Res.  6/
T1041      Construct  Crossroads                                                                   R-2-  28/
                                                                                                   24    1924
                                                                                                   Res.  9/
T1041      Improve    Leading through Village of Robinson                                          R-1-  16/
                                                                                                   33    1933
                      From the town line of Centerville to its terminus on lands of the Conemaugh  Ord.  2/7/
T710       Vacate     Generating Station                                                           O-70- 1970
                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                   Order 2/
T724       Vacate     Portion and relocation of same                                               of    10/
                                                                                                   Court 1947
T840 (Clay                                                                                         Res.  5/8/
Pike Road) Renaming   North of US Traffic Route 22 to Shellbark Road                               R-01- 1995
                                                                                                   95
T840 (Clay                                                                                         Res.  5/8/
Pike Road) Renumberd  South of US Traffic Route 22 to T-841                                        R-01- 1995
                                                                                                   95
Township                                                                                           Res.  6/
Road       Establish  At northern right-of-way line of Old Route 22                                R-5-  10/
                                                                                                   67    1967
Unnamed               15 foot alley extending north from the northern line of Catherine Street     Ord.  1/9/
alley      Unopened   toward Mary Street                                                           O-01- 1995
                                                                                                   95
                      From Mary Street in a southerly direction a distance of 300 feet to          Res.  11/
Unnamed    Convey     Catherine Street and then Perry Street from State Highway Route No. 32011,   R-1-  25/
Road                  in an easterly direction a distance of 291.5 feet to the east line of Bridge 59    1959
                      Street.
Unnamed    Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  12/
Road       Open and   Leading from traffic Route 259                                               O-74- 14/
           Establish                                                                               3     1974
Unnamed    Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  8/
Road       Open and   Leading from traffic Route 259                                               O-78- 12/
           Establish                                                                               1     1978
Unnamed    Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  8/4/
Road       Open and   In the Village of Robinson                                                   O-84- 1984
           Establish                                                                               5
Unnamed                                                                                            Ord.  3/7/
Road       Lay out    A road wholly within West Wheatfield Township                                O-59- 1959
                                                                                                   1
Unnamed    Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  2/2/
Road       Open and   Being designated as Washington Street on the Plan of the Village of Robinson O-80- 1980
           Establish                                                                               1
Unnamed    Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  10/
Road       Open and   As Poplar Drive In the J. Clair Hood Plan of Lots                            O-88- 10/
           Establish                                                                               1     1988
Unnamed    Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  6/
Road       Open and   Leading from traffic Route 259                                               O-72- 10/
           Establish                                                                               1     1972
Unnamed                                                                                            Ord.  9/1/
Road       Lay out    Adjacent to Route 22                                                         O-73- 1973
                                                                                                   1
Unnamed                                                                                            Ord.  10/
Road       Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville) (sometimes known as Church Street)      O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
                                                                                                   Ord.  10/
Vine Alley Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Walnut                                                                                             Ord.  10/
Alley      Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
Washington                                                                                         Res.  12/
Street     Accept     From Spring Street southward a distance of about 517 feet to Front Street    R-3-  12/
                                                                                                   53    1953
Water                                                                                              Ord.  10/
Street     Vacate     In the Village of Huff (Centerville)                                         O-85- 5/
                                                                                                   3     1985
           Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  11/
Wheatley   Open and   A roadway 50 feet in the Trinity Woods Plan of Lots in length                O-80- 1/
           Establish                                                                               2     1980
Young      Lay out,                                                                                Ord.  11/
Circle     Open and   A roadway 50 feet in the Trinity Woods Plan of Lots in length                O-80- 1/
           Establish                                                                               2     1980
 
 
Notes
     Editor’s Note: By order of the Court of Common Pleas of Indiana County,
  Pennsylvania, entered November 19, 2007, No. 10869 CD 2007, Cecil Lindsey, Judy
1 Lindsey, his wife, and Bertha Lindsey, Plaintiffs vs. West Wheatfield Township
  and West Wheatfield Township Supervisors: Donald R. Shetler, Samuel Boring, and
  Donald E. Baird, Defendants. 
APPENDIX I
WATER
   (Reserved for Future Enactments)
Table to Disposition of All Ordinances
Ordinance Date Disposition Subject
Ordinance  Date       Disposition              Subject
O-58-1     12/6/1958  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
O-59-1     3/7/1959   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
1          –/–/196Superseded by 02-08      Motor Vehicles and Traffic
O-68-1     2/5/1968   §                       Sewers and Sewage Disposal
                      18-211
                      §§
O-68-2     8/24/1968  10-101–                Health and Safety
                      10-104
                      §§
O-68-3     9/14/1968  6-101–                 Conduct
                      6-102
O-70-1     2/7/1970   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-72-1     6/10/1972  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-73-1     9/1/1973   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
                      §§
O-74-1     7/6/1974   21-101–                Solid Waste
                      21-102
                      §§
O-74-2     12/14/1974 21-201–                Solid Waste
                      21-204
O-74-3     12/14/1974 Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
                      §§
O-75-1     8/2/1975   18-401–                Sewers and Sewage Disposal
                      18-403
O-76-1     9/11/1976  Superseded by 02-08      Subdivision and Land Development
                      §§
O-77-1     2/11/1977  24-301–                Taxation; Special
                      24-305
O-77-2     4/14/1977  Repealed by O-01-3-90    Buildings
O-77-3     9/10/1977  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
O-78-1     8/12/1978  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-79-1     4/7/1979   Superseded by 01-05      Taxation; Special
O-80-1     2/2/1980   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-80-2     11/1/1980  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
                      §§
O-81-1     11/7/1981  24-501–                Fire Protection Tax
                      24-504
O-81-2     11/7/1981  Tax Rate 1982             
O-82-1     5/1/1982   Repealed by O-01-3-90    Buildings
O-82-2     10/9/1982  Repealed by O-01-3-90    Buildings
O-83-1     2/5/1983   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-83-2     3/5/1983   Repealed by O-01-3-90    Buildings
O-83-3     8/6/1983   Repealed by O-01-3-90    Buildings
O-84-1     2/4/1984   Superseded by O-01-2-91  Sewers and Sewage Disposal
O-84-2     2/4/1984   Superseded by O-01-2-91  Sewers and Sewage Disposal
                      §§
O-84-3     2/4/1984   18-101–                Sewers and Sewage Disposal
                      18-105
                      §§
O-84-4     7/7/1984   6-201–                 Conduct
                      6-205
O-84-5     8/4/1984   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-84-6     12/1/1984  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
                      §§
O-84-7     12/1/1984  18-301–                Sewers and Sewage Disposal
                      18-308
O-85-1     2/2/1985   Superseded by 02-08      Motor Vehicles and Traffic
O-85-2     2/2/1985   Appendix G               Sewers
O-85-3     10/5/1985  Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-85-4     12/30/1985 §                       Administration and Government
                      1-101
O-86-1     8/4/1986   Superseded by 02-08      Motor Vehicles and Traffic
O-86-2     9/29/1986  Superseded by 03-04      Water
                      §§
O-87-1     12/14/1987 24-201–                Taxation; Special
                      24-216
6/8/1987   6/8/1987   Superseded by 02-08      Motor Vehicles and Traffic
O-88-1     10/10/1988 Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-01-10-89 10/26/1989 Appendix B               Bond Issues and Loans
O-01-3-90  3/12/1990  Superseded by 12/12/2011 Buildings
O-01-2-91  2/10/1992  §§                     Sewers and Sewage Disposal
                      18-101
                      §§
O-02-05-92 5/27/1992  20-101–                Solid Waste
                      20-108
O-03-12-92 12/14/1992 Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
O-01-94    9/12/1994  Appendix C               Franchises and Services
O-02-94    9/12/1994  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
O-01-95    1/9/1995   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
O-02-95    4/10/1995  Superseded by 12/12/2011 Buildings
O-01-04-96 4/8/1996   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
O-1-98     3/9/1998   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
O-1-99     5/10/1999  §§                     Taxation, Special
                      24-701
01-04      4/19/2004  Superseded by 02-08      Motor Vehicles and Traffic
02-04      4/29/2004  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
                      §§
03-04      5/10/2004  26-101–                Water
                      26-108
04-04      6/14/2004  §                       Administration and Government
                      1-301
05-04      6/14/2004  §                       Code Enforcement
                      5-101
01-05      2/14/2005  Superseded by 01-07      Taxation; Special
02-05      –/–/200Superseded by 12/12/2011 Buildings
01-06      9/11/2006  §                       Taxation; Special
                      24-204
                      §§
01-07      12/19/2007 24-401–                Taxation; Special
                      24-416
01-08      4/14/2008  Superseded by 12/12/2011 Buildings
02-08      9/8/2008   Adopting Ordinance        
§§
4-112,
4-113,
4-120,
4-121,
4-141,                Superseded by 12/12/2011 Buildings
4-142,
4-145,
4-151,
4-202,
4-309
03-08      11/10/2008 Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
01-09      5/13/2009  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
                      §§
01-10      7/12/2010  7-101–                 Emergency Management
                      7-104
                      §§
12/12/2011 12/12/2011 4-101–                 Buildings
                      4-310
01-15      1/5/2015   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
02-15      1/5/2015   Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
3-15       11/9/2015  Appendix D               Governmental and
                                               Intergovernmental Affairs
                      §§
01-2016    2/8/2016   26-101–                Water
                      26-108
2-16       9/12/2016  §                       Administration and Government
                      1-501
4-16       1/3/2017   Appendix H               Streets and Sidewalks
                                             
 
Table to Disposition of Significant Resolutions
Resolution Date Disposition Subject
Resolution                            Date       Disposition  Subject
Court of Order                        3/15/1919  Levy Road     
                                                 Tax 1919
R-1-20                                2/21/1920  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-2-20                                2/21/1920  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-3-20                                2/21/1920  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-1-24                                3/8/1924   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-2-24                                6/28/1924  Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-3-24                                6/28/1924  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-4-24                                6/28/1924  Road Tax      
                                                 1924
R-1-25                                3/5/1925   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-1-26                                1/2/1926   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-26                                2/15/1926  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-26                                5/1/1926   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-26                                5/1/1926   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-5-26                                5/28/1926  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-26                                6/2/1926   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-7-26                                7/2/1926   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-8-26                                10/21/1926 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-9-26                                10/30/1926 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-10-26                               11/9/1926  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-27                                2/5/1927   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-27                                2/5/1927   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-27                                2/5/1927   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-27                                3/19/1927  Tax Rates     
                                                 1927
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-27                                10/1/1927  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-29                                5/31/1929  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-2-29                                7/31/1929  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 3/30/1930                        3/30/1930  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-30                                5/16/1930  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-2-30                                8/31/1930  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
Court of Order                        2/23/1931  Levy Road     
                                                 Tax 1931
R-1-31                                6/2/1931   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-2-31                                8/31/1931  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-31                                9/30/1931  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-1-32                                2/29/1932  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-2-32                                5/31/1932  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-3-32                                8/31/1932  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-4-32                                9/30/1932  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-1-33                                9/16/1933  Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-1-34                                11/1/1934  Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-1-41                                4/5/1941   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
Order of Court                        2/10/1947  Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-1-53                                8/3/1953   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
R-2-53                                12/12/953  Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-3-53                                12/12/1953 Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-54                                7/8/1954   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-54                                12/11/1954 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-57                                12/7/1957  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-1-59                                11/25/1959 Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-1-60                                7/2/1960   Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-2-60                                7/2/1960   Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-61                                10/7/1961  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-62                                1/1/1962   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-2-62                                1/1/1962   Road Tax      
                                                 1962
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-62                                3/3/1962   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-1-63                                2/2/1963   Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-2-63                                3/3/1963   Appendix B   Bond Issues and
                                                              Loans
                                                 Real Estate
R-3-63                                8/3/1963   Transfer Tax  
                                                 1963
R-1-64                                4/4/1964   Budget 1964   
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-64                                5/2/1964   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-64                                6/6/1964   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-1-65                                4/10/1965  Budget 1965   
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-65                                5/8/1965   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-65                                6/5/1965   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-1-66                                4/2//1966  Budget 1966   
                                                 §§
R-2-66                                5/14/1966  24-101–    Taxation; Special
                                                 24-113
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-66                                5/14/1966  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-66                                6/4/1966   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-66                                11/5/1966  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-66                                12/3/1966  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-1-67                                4/1/1967   Budget 1967   
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-67                                5/6/1967   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-67                                5/6/1967   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-67                                5/27/1967  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-5-67                                6/10/1967  Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-67                                7/1/1967   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-1-68                                4/6/1968   Budget 1968   
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-68                                5/4/1968   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-68                                5/4/1968   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-68                                11/2/1968  Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-68                                11/2/1968  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                 Budget and
R-6-68                                12/14/1968 Tax Rate      
                                                 1969
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-69                                2/21/1969  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-69                                4/5/1969   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-69                                4/5/1969   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-69                                12/13/1969 Tax Rate      
                                                 1970
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-70                                5/2/1970   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-70                                5/2/1970   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                 Budget and
R-3-70                                12/5/1970  Tax Rate      
                                                 1971
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-71                                4/3/1971   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-71                                5/1/1971   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-71                                11/6/1971  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                 Budget and
R-5-71                                12/27/1971 Tax Rate      
                                                 1972
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-72                                4/1/1972   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-72                                8/5/1972   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-72                                9/2/1972   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-72                                10/7/1972  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                 Budget and
R-6-72                                12/27/1972 Tax Rate      
                                                 1973
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-73                                4/6/1973   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-73                                9/1/1973   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-73                                12/26/1973 Tax Rate      
                                                 1974
R-5-73                                12/26/1973 Budget 1974   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-74                                5/4/1974   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-74                                10/1/1974  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-74                                12/14/1974 Tax Rate      
                                                 1975
R-4-74                                12/14/1974 Budge 1975    
R-5-74                                12/14/1974 Appendix G   Sewers
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-75                                6/5/1975   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-75                                8/2/1975   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
Agr. 8/2/1975                         8/2/1975   Appendix G   Sewers
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-75                                9/6/1975   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-75                                9/16/1975  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-6-75                                12/30/1975 Budget 1976   
R-7-75                                13/30/1975 Tax Rate      
                                                 1976
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-76                                7/24/1976  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-76                                7/24/1976  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2A-76                               10/2/1976  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-76                                10/2/1976  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
Agr. 10/2/1976                        10/2/1976  Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
R-4-76                                11/6/1976  Appendix G   Sewers
R-5-76                                12/30/1976 Tax Rate      
                                                 1977
R-5A-76                               12/30/1976 Budget 1977   
R-1-77                                1/8/1977   Appendix E   Plan Approval
R-2-77                                5/7/1977   Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-77                                6/11/1977  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-77                                7/26/1977  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-77                                9/10/1977  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-77                                9/10/1977  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-7-77                                13/31/1977 Tax Rate      
                                                 1978
R-8-77                                12/31/1977 Budget 1978   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-78                                2/4/1978   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-78                                2/4/1978   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-78                                4/1/1978   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-78                                5/4/1978   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-78                                5/6/1978   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-7-78                                5/6/1978   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-8-78                                5/6/1978   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-9-78                                5/6/1978   Appendix E   Plan Approval
R-10-78                               8/12/1978  Appendix G   Sewers
                                                              Governmental and
R-11-78                               12/2/1978  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-12-78                               12/29/1978 Tax Rate      
                                                 1979
R-13-78                               12/29/1978 Per Capital   
                                                 Tax 1979
R-14-78                               12/29/1978 Budget 1979   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-79                                2/3/1979   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 7/17/1979                        7/17/1979  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-79                                8/4/1979   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-79                                9/1/1979   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-79                                10/13/1979 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-79                                10/13/1979 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-79                                11/3/1979  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-8-79                                11/3/1979  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-9-79                                11/3/1979  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 11/3/1979                        11/3/1979  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-10-79                               12/28/1979 Tax Rates     
                                                 1980
R-11-79                               12/28/1979 Budget 1980   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-80                                7/12/1980  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-80                                9/6/1980   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 10/10/1980                       10/10/1980 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-80                                12/30/1980 Tax Rate      
                                                 1981
R-4A-80                               12/30/1980 Budget 1981   
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-80                                12/30/1980 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 5/2/1981                         5/2/1981   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-81                                12/5/1981  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-81                                12/5/1981  Real Estate   
                                                 Tax
                                                 Fire
R-4-81                                12/5/1981  Protection    
                                                 Tax
                                                 Budge and
R-5-81                                12/30/81   Tax Rate      
                                                 1982
R-6-81                                12/30/1981 §           Taxation; Special
                                                 24-601
R-1-82                                7/10/1982  Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-83                                4/2/1983   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-83                                4/2/1983   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-83                                6/4/1983   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
Agr. 9/9/1983                         9/9/1983   Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
R-4-83                                9/9/1983   Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
R-5-83                                11/4/1983  Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
Agr. 2/4/1984                         2/4/1984   Appendix G   Sewers
R-1-84                                4/7/1984   Appendix G   Sewers
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-84                                4/7/984    Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-84                                6/2/1984   Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-4-84                                6/2/1984   Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-5-84                                8/4/1984   Appendix E   Plan Approval
R-6-84                                12/17/1984 Budget 1985   
R-7-84                                12/17/1984 Tax Levy      
                                                 1985
R-1-85                                4/11/1985  Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 4/11/1985                        4/11/1985  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-85                                4/11/1985  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2A-85                               10/5/1985  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-85                                12/19/1985 Levy Tax      
                                                 1986
R-4-85                                12/19/1985 Budget 1986   
R-1-86                                9/6/1986   Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-86                                12/6/1986  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-86                                12/6/1986  Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-4-86                                12/15/1986 Budget 1987   
R-5-86                                12/15/1986 Tax Levy      
                                                 1987
R-1-87                                1/5/1987   Appendix E   Plan Approval
R-2-87                                2/9/1987   Appendix G   Sewers
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-87                                2/9/1987   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-87                                3/5/1987   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-5-87                                3/9/1987   Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-87                                3/9/1987   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-7-87                                6/8/1987   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-8-87                                12/18/1987 Tax Levy      
                                                 1988
R-9-87                                12/18/1987 Budget 1988   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-88                                4/14/1988  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-88                                4/11/1988  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-88                                5/9/1988   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-88                                5/9/1988   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-88                                6/13/1988  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-88                                7/11/1988  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-7-88                                12/12/1988 Tax Levy      
                                                 1989
R-8-88                                12/12/1988 Budget 1989   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-02-89                            2/24/1989  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-10-89                            10/9/1989  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-03-12-89                            12/20/1989 Tax Levy      
                                                 1990
R-04-12-89                            12/20/1989 Budget 1990   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-07-90                            7/9/1990   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-07-90                            7/9/1990   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-09-90                            9/10/1990  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-04-14-90                            12/10/1990 Tax Rate      
                                                 1991
R-05-12-90                            12/10/1990 Budget 1991   
R-01-02-91                            2/11/1991  §           Sewers and Sewage
                                                 18-201       Disposal
R-02-04-91                            4/8/1991   Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-06-91                            6/10/1991  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-06-91                            6/10/1991  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-05-10-91                            10/14/1991 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-06-12-91                            12/21/1991 Budget 1992   
R-07-12-91                            12/21/1991 Tax Levy      
                                                 1992
                                                              Governmental and
R-08-12-91                            12/21/1991 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-92                                6/8/1992   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-12-92                             12/14/1992 Budget 1993   
R-1-93                                9/13/1993  Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
R-2-93                                12/13/1993 Budget 1994   
R-3-93                                12/13/1993 Budget 1994   
R-1-94                                2/14/1994  Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-94                                4/11/1994  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-94                                12/12/1994 Budget 1995   
R-4-94                                12/12/1994 Budget 1995   
R-01-95                               5/8/1995   Appendix H   Streets and
                                                              Sidewalks
R-02-95                               6/12/1995  Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-95                               7/10/1995  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-95                               10/9/1995  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                 Budget and
R-05-95                               12/11/1995 Tax Levy      
                                                 1996
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-03-96                            3/11/1996  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-03-96                            3/11/1996  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-96                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-96                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-04-96                               –/–/–Tax Rate      
                                                 1997
R-05-96                               –/–/–Budget 1997   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-97                               7/7/1997   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-97                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-97                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3                                   –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-04-97                               –/–/–Tax Levy      
                                                 1998
R-05-97                               –/–/–Budget 1998   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-98                               1/5/1998   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-02-98                               2/9/1998   Appendix E   Plan Approval
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-98                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-98                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-05-98                               –/–/–Tax Rate      
                                                 1999
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 3/9/1988                         3/9/1998   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-99                               2/8/1999   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-01A-99                              –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-99                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-99                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-99                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-05-99                               –/–/–Tax Rate      
                                                 2000
R-06-99                               –/–/–Budget 2000   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-00                               3/13/2000  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-00                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-00                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-04-00                               –/–/–Budget 2001   
R-05-00                               –/–/–Tax Levy      
                                                 2001
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-01                               2/12/2001  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-01                               2/12/2001  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-03-01                               5/14/2001  Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-01                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-05-01                               –/–/–Tax Levy      
                                                 2002
R-06-01                               –/–/–Budget 2002   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-02                               2/11/2002  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-02                               4/8/2002   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-02                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-02                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-05-02                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-06-02                               11/11/2002 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-07-02                               –/–/–Tax Levy      
                                                 2003
R-08-02                               –/–/–Budget 2003   
                                                              Governmental and
R-09-02                               –/–/–Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                 §§         Administration
2/10/2003                             2/10/2003  1-201–     and Government
                                                 1-204
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-03                               2/10/2003  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-03                               2/10/2003  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
Agr. 12/8/2003                        12/8/2003  Appendix C   Franchises and
                                                              Services
                                                              Governmental and
Agr. 6/14/2004                        6/14/2004  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-04                               6/14/2004  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-04                               6/14/2004  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-05                               10/10/2005 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-02-05                               12/12/2005 Tax Rate      
                                                 2006
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-06                               5/15/2006  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-06                               6/12/2006  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-06                               7/10/2006  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-04-06                               –/–/–Appendix G   Sewers
                                                              Governmental and
R-05-06                               11/13/2006 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-06A-06                              11/13/2006 Appendix E   Plan Approval
R-06B-06                              12/11/2006 Tax Rate      
                                                 2007
R-07-06                               12/11/2006 Budget 2007   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-07                               4/9/2007   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-07                               5/14/2007  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-07                               6/11/2007  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-07                               6/11/2007  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-05-07                               6/11/2007  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-06-07                               10/8/2007  Appendix G   Sewers
R-07-07                               12/10/2007 Budget 2008   
R-08-07                               12/10/2007 Tax Rate      
                                                 2008
R-09-07                               12/10/2007 Appendix G   Sewers
R-01-08                               1/7/2008   Appendix G   Sewers
   Supp. IV; revised 2/13/2012R-02-3/10/2008  Appendix G   Sewers
R-03-08                               9/8/2008   Fee           
                                                 Resolution
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-08                               11/10/2008 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-05-08                               12/8/2008  Tax Rate      
                                                 2009
R-06-08                               12/8/2008  Budget 2009   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-09                               2/9/2009   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-02-09                               7/13/2009  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-09                               11/9/2009  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-04-09                               11/9/2009  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-05-09                               12/9/2009  Tax Rate      
                                                 2010
R-06-09                               12/9/2009  Budget 2010   
                                                              Governmental and
R-01-10                               2/8/2010   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                 §§         Administration
R-02-10                               3/8/2010   1-401–     and Government
                                                 1-408
                                                              Governmental and
R-03-10                               5/10/2010  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-10                                12/13/2010 Tax Rate      
                                                 2011
R-5-10                                12/13/2010 Budget 2011   
                                                              Governmental and
R-2A-11                               3/14/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2B-11                               9/12/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-11                                9/12/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-11                                9/12/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-11                                9/12/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-11                                9/12/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-7-11                                9/12/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-8-11                                9/12/2011  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-9-11                                12/12/2011 Tax Rate      
                                                 2012
R-10-11                               12/12/2011 Budget 2012   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-12                                2/13/2012  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-12                                2/13/2012  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-12                                2/13/2012  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-4-12                                12/10/2012 Tax Rate      
                                                 2013
R-5-12                                12/10/2012 Budget 2013   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-13                                2/11/2013  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-13                                8/12/2013  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-13                                9/9/2013   Appendix G   Sewers
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-13                                –/–/201Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-5-13                                12/9/2013  Tax Rate      
                                                 2014
R-6-13                                12/9/2013  Budget 2014   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-14                                2/10/2014  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-14                                2/10/2014  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-14                                7/14/2014  Budget 2014   
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-14                                9/8/2014   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-14                                10/13/2014 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-6-14                                10/13/2014 Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-15                                2/9/2015   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-2-15                                12/14/2015 Tax Rate      
                                                 2016
R-3-15                                12/14/2015 Budget 2016   
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-16                                3/14/2016  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-16                                6/6/2016   Tax Rate      
                                                 2016
R-4-16                                12/12/2016 Budget 2017   
R-5-16                                12/12/2016 Tax Rate      
                                                 2017
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-17                                2/13/2017  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-3-17                                12/11/2017 Tax Rate      
                                                 2018
R-4-17                                12/11/2017 Budget 2018   
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-18                                2/12/2018  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-18                                2/12/2018  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-18                                2/12/2018  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-18                                2/12/2018  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-5-18                                8/13/2018  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
R-6-18                                8/13/2018  Budget 2018   
                                                              Governmental and
R-7-18                                8/13/2018  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-19                                3/11/2019  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-1-20                                5/11/2020  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-20                                5/11/2020  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-2-21                                3/8/2021   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-3-21                                3/8/2021   Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                              Governmental and
R-4-21                                4/12/2021  Appendix D   Intergovernmental
                                                              Affairs
                                                               
 
 
