BENNETTSVILLE, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 3-19-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 13-05-001
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO
   THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BENNETTSVILLE.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Bennettsville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this City of Bennettsville; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BENNETTSVILLE:
Section 1.   That the S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Bennettsville as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest dale
provided by law.
DONE AND RATIFIED IN COUNCIL DULY ASSEMBLED THIS 21st DAY OF MAY, 2013.
                           Dexe S. Bostick
                           Mayor
               Larry Pelham         Jean Quick
               Sandy Donaldson      Waldo Pearson
               Wilhelmina Pragues      Bernice Johnson
                     Council Members
ATTEST:
Max Alderman
City Administrator
First Reading: April 16, 2013
Second Reading: May 21,2013
ORDINANCE 019-11-01
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO
   THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BENNETTSVILLE.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Bennettsville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this City of Bennettsville; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BENNETTSVILLE:
Section 1.   That the S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Bennettsville as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
DONE AND RATIFIED IN COUNCIL DULY ASSEMBLED THIS 19th DAY OF November, 2019.
                           Heath Harpe /s/
                           Mayor
                            /s/
                            /s/
                            /s/
                            /s/
                            /s/
                            /s/
                           Council Members
ATTEST:
Max Alderman /s/
City Administrator
First Reading: October 15, 2019
Second Reading: November 19, 2019
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation and citation
   
10.02   Continuation of existing ordinances
   
10.03   Definitions
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Catchlines
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Effect of repeal or expiration
   
10.08   Amendments
   
10.09   Altering the code
   
10.10   Liability for violations
   
10.11   Prosecution for different penalties
   
10.12   Municipal uniform ordinance summons
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION AND CITATION.
   The ordinances embraced in this and following chapters and sections
constitute and are designated as “The Code of Ordinances of Bennettsville,
South Carolina,” and may be so cited. They may be cited also as the
“Bennettsville City Code” or “The City Code of Bennettsville.”
('88 Code, § 1.201)
§ 10.02 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
('88 Code, § 1.202)
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND or OR. The word AND may be read as OR and the word OR may be read as AND
where the sense requires it.
   BOND. When BOND is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area between the buildings on the north side of
Market Street on the north; the south side of Fayetteville Avenue, as it would
extend through to Liberty Street, on the south; Parsonage Street and extension
on the east; the buildings on the west side of Liberty Street on the west.
   CITY. The City of Bennettsville, Marlboro County, South Carolina.
   CLERK. The Municipal City Clerk. The title may be used interchangeably with
“Clerk,” “City Clerk” or “Clerk-Treasurer,” if one person holds both positions.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, computed by
excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last day be Sunday
or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded. The day the act, event or default
after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included.
The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a
Saturday, Sunday or a state or federal holiday, in which event the period runs
until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday nor such
holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. A half holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
holiday. (R. Civ. Proc. 6(a))
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, as defined in S.C. Code § 5-
11-20.
   GENDER. See §
10.04(B).
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire and Police departments, ambulances
and/or emergency vehicles or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the South Carolina Department of Highways and Transportation or
by the City Council.
   MAY. The act shall be permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month, unless defined otherwise.
   MUNICIPALITY. May be used interchangeably with “city” and shall mean the
entire area within the corporate limits.
   NUMBER. See §
10.04(A).
   OATH or SWEAR. SWORN shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in
such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be the equivalent to words AFFIRM
and AFFIRMED and vice versa.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, any part-owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part
of the building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group as a unit, as well as an individual or individuals.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property, as
defined in this section.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. The next before and the next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY and REAL ESTATE. Lands, tenements and the hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. Territory contiguous to and including a street not
comprising a business district when the property on the street for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with dwellings or dwellings and
buildings in use with residences.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SHALL. The act shall be mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb and the adjacent property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. A mark, when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STREET. Streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
bridges and all other public thoroughfares and shall mean the entire width
thereof between abutting property lines. It shall be construed to include a
sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless the
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of a building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   WRITING. The words “writing” or “written” shall include printing and any
other mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise defined.
('88 Code, § 1.205)
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply:
   (A)   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
   (B)   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females also
and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
   (C)   All words importing the present tense shall apply to the future also.
('88 Code, § 1.206)
§ 10.05 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code, printed in capital
letters, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate or emphasize the contents
of the sections, not as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so
provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the
catchlines, are ended or reenacted.
('88 Code, § 1.204)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council, that if any
section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall be declared
unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code since the same
would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code of any
unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, division or section.
('88 Code, § 1.203)
§ 10.07 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
('88 Code, § 1.210)
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to the adoption of this code, which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, shall be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. In the
case of repealed chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof by
subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following, but not necessarily the exact, language:
“that §               (number to be inserted) of the City Code of The City of
Bennettsville is hereby amended as follows:                              .”
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “that the Bennettsville City
Code, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered §               
(number to be inserted), which section shall read as follows:              .”
The new section shall then be set out in full as enacted, and the sections of
this code may be renumbered to accomplish the intention.
   (D)   All divisions, sections, chapters or provisions to be repealed shall
be specifically repealed by division, section or chapter number, as the case
may be.
('88 Code, § 1.211)
§ 10.09 ALTERING THE CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the laws of this municipality to be misrepresented thereby.
('88 Code, § 1.212) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.10 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall,
in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation, association
or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or
order of any person.
('88 Code, § 1.209)
§ 10.11 PROSECUTION FOR DIFFERENT PENALTIES.
   In all cases where the same offense may be created by different clauses or
sections of the ordinances of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense.
('88 Code, § 1.213)
§ 10.12 MUNICIPAL UNIFORM ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the code, or any code
adopted pursuant thereto, within the corporate limits of the city may be issued
a uniform ordinance summons. Issuance of the uniform ordinance summons shall
vest jurisdiction in the municipal court to hear and dispose of the charge for
which the uniform ordinance summons was issued and served. The uniform
ordinance summons maybe issued by any city law enforcement officer or any other
city employees designated by the Council as code enforcement officers. The bond
amount for violations shall be prescribed by the chief municipal court judge.
City law enforcement or code enforcement officers are prohibited from accepting
bonds. Bonds are to be posted in the manner prescribed in the uniform ordinance
summons. The uniform ordinance summons shall not be used to perform a custodial
arrest.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any ordinance which regulates the use
of motor vehicles on the public roads.
(Ord. 93-09-01, passed 9-14-93)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or
order promulgated by any agency or officer thereof under authority duly vested
in him or it, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required, where no specific
penalty is provided for the violation thereof, the violation of any provisions
of this code, ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment for a period not
exceeding 30 days, or both. No penalty shall exceed the penalty provided by
state law for similar offenses. Each day any violation of this code or any
ordinance, rule or regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
('88 Code, § 1.207) (Am. Ord. 93-10-01, passed 10-12-93)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on fine and term of imprisonment, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Municipal seal
§ 11.01 MUNICIPAL SEAL.
   The municipality shall have a common seal, to be in the custody of the
Clerk, which shall be affixed to all official documents of the municipality, as
may be directed by the Council.
('88 Code, § 1.214)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
35.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Composition; terms
   
30.03   Compensation; expenses
   
30.04   Mayor Pro Tempore; duties
   
30.05   Oath of office
   
30.06   State of emergency
   
30.07   Nomination and election procedure
Meetings
   
30.20   Regular and special meetings
   
30.21   Agenda
   
30.22   Minutes
   
30.23   Quorum; rules of order
   
30.24   Interruption prohibited
   
30.25   Order of proceedings
   
30.26   Voting
   
30.27   Council committees
   
30.28   Motions
Ordinances
   
30.40   Passing ordinances
   
30.41   Enacting clause
   
30.42   Required and recorded
   
30.43   Emergency ordinances
   
30.44   Codification of ordinances
   
30.45   Notice required
   
30.46   Form; introduction in writing
   
30.47   Original copy
   
30.48   Amending or repealing ordinances
   
30.49   Enactment; time frame
   
30.50   Resolutions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   Pursuant to the Code of Laws of South Carolina, 1976, the Bennettsville form
of government shall be the Council form.
(‘88 Code, § 2.101)
Statutory reference:
   Council form of government structure, powers and the like, see S.C. Code §§
5-11-10 et seq.
   Selection of council form of government, see S.C. Code § 5-5-10(b)
§ 30.02 COMPOSITION; TERMS.
   (A)   The Council shall be composed of a Mayor and six members, all of whom
shall be residents and qualified electors of the municipality. (‘88 Code, §
2.102)
   (B)   (1)   The office of Mayor shall be for the term of four years.
      (2)   The office of Council shall be for the term of four years
staggered.
(‘88 Code, § 2.103) (Am. Ord. 03-02-01, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-
12)
Statutory reference:
   Council qualifications, see S.C. Code § 5-15-20
   Terms authorized and regulated, see S.C. Code § 5-15-40
§ 30.03 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Mayor and each member of Council shall be paid an annual salary in
an amount to be determined by ordinance from time to time as necessary.
   (B)   Increases in compensation shall not become effective until the
commencement, date of the terms of two or more members elected at the next
general election following the adoption of the ordinance, at which time it will
become effective for all members whether or not they were elected in the
election.
   (C)   The Mayor and members of Council may receive payment for actual
expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties when supported by
official expense vouchers.
(‘88 Code, § 2.104)
Statutory reference:
   Salaries and expenses to be determined by ordinance, see S.C. Code § 5-7-170
§ 30.04 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE; DUTIES.
   Immediately after any general election of the Council, the Council shall
elect from its membership a Mayor Pro Tempore for a term of not more than two
years. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall act as Mayor during the absence or
disability of the Mayor. In case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Mayor
Pro Tempore shall serve until a successor is elected.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-190) (‘88 Code, § 2.105)
§ 30.05 OATH OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor and each member of Council, before entering upon the duties of
their respective offices, shall take the following oaths, to wit:
   “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to the
Constitution of this State, to exercise the duties of the office to which I
have been elected and that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the
duties thereof, and preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of this State
and of the United States.”
   “As Mayor (Council member) of The City of Bennettsville, I will equally,
fairly, and impartially, to the best of my ability and skill, exercise the
trust reposed in me, and I will use my best endeavors to preserve the peace and
carry into effect according to law the purposes for which I have been elected.
So help me, God.”
(S.C. Code § 5-15-150) (‘88 Code, § 2.106)
§ 30.06 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of public crises, disaster, rioting, civil disturbances, catastrophe or for any
other reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health, welfare or property.
   (B)   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the citizenry or threatening damage to or
destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue
a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of the state of
emergency and, in order more effectively to protect lives, safety and property,
to define and impose a curfew applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction
of the Council.
   (C)   The Mayor is further authorized and empowered to limit the application
of a curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
jurisdiction of the Council and to specific hours of the day or night and to
exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses and
others as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the needs of the people within the corporate limits.
(‘88 Code, § 2.120)
Cross-reference:
   Drought Response, see §§
55.01 through
55.08
   Emergency ordinances, see §
30.43
Statutory reference:
   General municipal authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-160.
§ 30.07 NOMINATION AND ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election method. Pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-20, the Mayor shall be
elected at large and Council Members shall be elected, one member from each
ward of the municipality by the qualified electors of the ward. Candidates
seeking office from a particular ward shall be residents of the ward during
their entire term of office.
   (B)   Nonpartisan election procedure. All regular and special elections for
Mayor and members of Council shall be conducted and results shall be determined
in accordance with the nonpartisan election and runoff election method
authorized by S.C. Code § 5-15-62.
   (C)   Election commission. All regular and special elections shall be
conducted by a Municipal Election Commission composed of three electors who
shall be residents of the City appointed by the City Council for terms of six
years, staggered so that the terms of one member expires each even-numbered
year at least 90 days prior to the regular election. The Election Commission
shall have the powers and duties specified in S.C. Code § 5-15-100, and
applicable provisions of S.C. Code, Title 7.
   (D)   Regular election date and notice.
      (1)   Regular elections for the offices of Mayor and members of Council
shall be held in odd-numbered years on the first Tuesday following the first
Monday in November. A runoff election, if necessary, shall be held two weeks
following the election. Those members of Council whose terms expire in May,
2017, shall have their terms extended to Tuesday, January 2, 2018, when their
successors shall be installed; Mayor and those members of Council whose terms
expire in May, 2019, shall have their terms extended to Wednesday, January 2,
2020 when their successors shall be installed. Thereafter, terms shall be
staggered ending and beginning on the first business day in January in
subsequent years.
      (2)   In the event of a tie vote for any office, a runoff election shall
be held two weeks following the election pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-125.
Special elections to fill vacancies shall be held pursuant to S.C. Code § 7-13-
190. Two public notices of a regular or special election shall be given, which
shall include the location of polling places set by resolution of Council. The
first notice shall be given at least 60 days prior to the election. The second
notice shall be given no later than two weeks after the first notice.
   (E)   Filing statement of candidacy.
      (1)   Each person offering as a candidate for election to any city office
shall do so by filing a notice of candidacy with the Election Commission by
noon on the date 60 days prior to the date of the election in substantially the
following form:
         I hereby file notice that I am a candidate for election to the office
of Mayor/Council Member for District No.             in the regular/special
municipal election to be held  (date) . I certify that I am a qualified elector
and resident of the municipality and district for which I seek election.
      (2)   No political affiliation shall be placed on the ballot for any
candidate.
      (3)   Candidates must file a Statement of Economic Interest form that the
Election Commission must file with the State Ethics Commission within five days
after the filing period closes. Candidates failing to file this statement will
not have their names printed on the ballot.
      (4)   Candidates must file Campaign Disclosure Forms with the State
Ethics Commission within 15 days prior to each election.
(Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 03-02-01, passed 2-18-03)
   (F)   Filing fees. The filing fees for the offices of Mayor and Council
shall be an amount equal to one month’s pay for the office sought at the time
of filing.
   (G)   Time of taking office. Newly elected officers shall be qualified to
take office at any meeting of Council at least 48 hours after an uncontested
election. Incumbents shall remain in office until contests are finally
determined and successors are qualified and take office.
(Ord. 98-03-01, passed 3-17-98 ; Am. Ord. 03-02-01, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord.
passed 1-17-17; Am. Ord. 017-06-01, passed 6-20-17)
MEETINGS
§ 30.20 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of Council shall be held on the third Tuesday of each
month at the City Hall at 7:00 p.m. Meeting dates may be changed by a majority
vote of members present at any regular or special meeting. Notice of all
changed meetings and special meetings shall be given to all available members
and the news media by the Clerk. Special meetings shall be held whenever called
by the Mayor in cases of emergency or when, in his judgment, the good of the
municipality requires it, or when a 24-hour notice is given in writing by four
members of the Council. All Council meetings shall be open to the public, as
required by the Freedom of Information Act of 1972, as amended.
(‘88 Code, § 2.201)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of meetings, see S.C. Code § 30-4-80
§ 30.21 AGENDA.
   Matters to be considered by Council at a regular meeting shall be placed on
a written agenda and publicly posted at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
Matters not on the agenda may be considered upon request of a member unless at
least two members object.
(‘88 Code, § 2.202)
§ 30.22 MINUTES.
   The Clerk shall keep the minutes of all public meetings of the Council which
shall be a matter of permanent public record. At each regular Council meeting,
the minutes of the previous meeting or meetings shall be presented for
approval. Minutes shall not be considered the official record of a meeting
until approved by the Council. Any member of Council desiring to express a
position in the minutes on a matter voted upon by Council may do so by
presenting the position in writing to Council not later than the next regular
meeting. No person shall make any change in the minutes or remove same from
City Hall, without prior approval of the Mayor or Council.
(‘88 Code, § 2.203)
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act requirements, see S.C. Code § 30-4-90
§ 30.23 QUORUM; RULES OF ORDER.
   A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of
business at any meeting. Except as otherwise provided by state law or this
code, all proceedings of Council shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
The City Attorney shall act as parliamentarian. In his absence, all questions
of order shall be decided by the Mayor or, in his absence, the presiding
officer, without debate, subject to an appeal to the Council.
(‘88 Code, § 2.204)
§ 30.24 INTERRUPTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to interrupt the proceedings
of Council, the Court or any other official body while in session.
(‘88 Code, § 2.205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.25 ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The order of proceedings of Council meetings may be substantially as
follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Minutes approval;
      (3)   Petitions and communications;
      (4)   Committee reports;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
(‘88 Code, § 2.206)
   (B)   Any citizen of the city shall be entitled to be placed on the agenda
of any regular meeting to discuss any municipal matter, with the exception of
personnel matters. Persons desiring to be placed on the agenda shall notify the
Administrator stating the item he wishes to discuss prior to the meeting.
(‘88 Code, § 2.207)
§ 30.26 VOTING.
   (A)   Votes; number and results.
      (1)   A show of hands or a voice vote shall be sufficient to record
votes. During the voting, no member shall leave the Council chamber without
permission of the presiding officer.
      (2)   All actions of Council shall be by majority vote of the members
present.
      (3)   The result of each vote on every question shall be recorded in the
minutes by the Clerk. The “yeas” and “nays” on any question shall be recorded
when requested by any member.
      (4)   Every member of Council, including the Mayor, shall have one vote
on every question, except when required to refrain from voting by state law.
(‘88 Code, § 2.208)
   (B)   How often members may speak. No member shall speak more than twice on
the same question, except to explain his position, without concurrence of a
majority of the Council. (‘88 Code, § 2.209)
   (C)   Reasons for voting may be recorded. Any member shall have his reasons
for voting for or against any measure recorded in the minutes, at his request.
(‘88 Code, § 2.210)
   (D)   Interested member or Mayor not to vote. Neither the Mayor nor any
member of Council shall vote on any question of a private nature in which he is
personally or pecuniarily interested. (‘88 Code, § 2.211)
   (E)   Mayor to preside; when absent. The Mayor shall preside at all Council
meetings, when present. In the absence of both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore
the duties of the Mayor shall be performed by a member of the Council as the
Council may designate. (‘88 Code, § 2.212)
   (F)   Executive sessions.  
      (1)   Council may hold executive sessions as permitted by the South
Carolina Freedom of Information Act at the times and places as Council may deem
necessary and in the public interest.
      (2)   A majority vote of Council shall be necessary to call the sessions.
(‘88 Code, § 2.213)
Statutory reference:
   Open meetings required, exceptions, see S.C. Code §§ 30-4-60 and 30-4-70
   Statutory rules of conduct, prohibitions, see S.C. Code §§ 8-13-700 et seq.
§ 30.27 COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   (1)   To better facilitate the operation of city government, the Mayor
shall, as soon after the beginning of each term of office as possible, appoint
members of Council to three standing committees, which shall be designated the
Public Safety Committee, the Budget and Finance Committee and the Public
Service Committee. Each committee shall be made up of two Council members and
the Mayor.
      (2)   Each committee shall have the responsibility to investigate and
make recommendations to Council concerning the matter within that committee’s
areas of responsibility. The area of responsibility of each committee shall be
as determined by Council at the beginning of each term.
      (3)   The Mayor is further authorized to appoint special committees to be
made up of persons within or without the city government as in his judgment may
be needed.
(‘88 Code, § 2.214)
   (B)   (1)   Committee reports may be in writing and signed by a majority of
the committee.
      (2)   Any report involving the expenditure of money shall be in writing
and include the amount to be expended, or an approximation thereof, and the
reasons therefor.
(‘88 Code, § 2.215)
   (C)   Reports of committees, in the order of business, shall be rendered as
the presiding officer may determine. (‘88 Code, § 2.216)
§ 30.28 MOTIONS.
   (A)   All motions shall be reduced to writing at the request of the Mayor or
any member of Council. (‘88 Code, § 2.217)
   (B)   The following motions shall be without debate:
      (1)   To adjourn;
      (2)   To lay on the table;
      (3)   To read any paper;
      (4)   To take the yeas and nays for the previous question; and
      (5)   To reconsider.
(‘88 Code, § 2.218)
   (C)   (1)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received
except a motion:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   To lay on the table;
         (c)   For the previous question;
         (d)   To postpone to a certain day; or
         (e)   To commit, to amend or to postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   The above motions shall have precedence in the order in which they
are set forth.
(‘88 Code, § 2.219)
   (D)   A motion to reconsider shall not be entertained unless it be made by a
member of Council who voted with the majority, and the motion shall be made
only at the same or next succeeding meeting. (‘88 Code, § 2.220)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.40 PASSING ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the duty of the Council to pass, from time to time, the
ordinances as in its judgment shall best promote the interests of the citizens
and property owners of the municipality.
(‘88 Code, § 2.107)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal powers, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 30.41 ENACTING CLAUSE.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be, in substance, as follows:
“Be it ordained by the Council of The City of Bennettsville, South Carolina.”
(‘88 Code, § 2.108)
§ 30.42 REQUIRED AND RECORDED.
   (A)   The Council shall act by ordinance in all matters required by law to
be done by ordinance, in order to:
      (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or
abolish any department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
      (3)   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
      (4)   Grant, renew or extend franchises, licenses or rights in public
streets, or in public property and close abandoned streets;
      (5)   Authorize the borrowing of money or the issuance of bonds;
      (6)   Levy taxes, assess property for improvements or establish charges
for services;
      (7)   Annex areas;
      (8)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands;
and
      (9)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in divisions (1) through
(8) above.
   (B)   In all other matters, the Council may act either by ordinance,
resolution or on motion, written or oral, which shall be recorded in the
minutes.
(‘88 Code, § 2.109)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory requirements, see S.C. Code § 5-7-260
§ 30.43 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   Emergency ordinances shall conform to the provisions of S.C. Code §§ 5-7-250
(d) and §
30.49(C).
(‘88 Code, § 2.110)
§ 30.44 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances amending this code and any other ordinances or portions
of ordinances, as may be required by Council, shall be codified at least
annually. (S.C. Code § 5-7-290)
   (B)   Standard codes, technical regulations, business license ordinances and
zoning ordinances may be cited in the code by reference and copies thereof
shall be made available by the Clerk for distribution or for purchase at a
reasonable price. (S.C. Code § 5-7-280)
(‘88 Code, § 2.111)
§ 30.45 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Prior to the introduction of an ordinance granting a franchise, license or
right for the use of any street or public property, or for the permanent
closing of any abandoned street, the applicant for the ordinance shall publish
a notice in a newspaper having general circulation in the municipality stating
the nature of the franchise, license or right sought or a description of the
street sought to be closed, and the date on which the application is to be
presented to Council which shall be at least one week after the last notice.
This requirement shall not apply to the temporary closing of a public street
initiated by Council.
(‘88 Code, § 2.112)
§ 30.46 FORM; INTRODUCTION IN WRITING.
   (A)   Every proposed ordinance shall be numbered and shall be introduced in
writing and in the form required for final adoption which shall include:
      (1)   A title briefly describing the contents;
      (2)   Findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired and when
appropriate;
      (3)   An enacting clause;
      (4)   A repealing provision, when appropriate;
      (5)   The provisions of the ordinance including section numbers, when
appropriate; and
      (6)   The effective date of the ordinance and dates of first and second
readings and approval of the Attorney as to form, when asked.
(‘88 Code, § 2.113)
   (B)   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of Council or the City
Administrator. A proposed ordinance shall be referred to the City Attorney,
when appropriate, for approval as to legality and form, and he shall render
assistance in the preparation of ordinances when requested to do so. After an
ordinance is in proper form and the required notices have been given, the Clerk
shall hold the ordinance for public inspection. An ordinance shall be deemed to
be introduced when, at a public meeting of Council, its title is read, after
appearance on an agenda. (‘88 Code, § 2.114)
§ 30.47 ORIGINAL COPY.
   The Clerk shall enter in an ordinance book the original copy of all
ordinances passed by the Council. The book shall be known as the “Ordinance
Book,” as required by the 1976 S.C. Legislature, bearing Ratification No. 718,
and it shall be indexed.
(‘88 Code, § 2.115)
§ 30.48 AMENDING OR REPEALING ORDINANCES.
   The Clerk shall write on the first page of every ordinance, subsequent to
entry in the ordinance book, if the same shall be amended or repealed, as the
case may be, the words “amended” or “repealed” with a reference on the
ordinance in the ordinance book as to where the amending or repealing ordinance
can be found.
(‘88 Code, § 2.116)
§ 30.49 ENACTMENT; TIME FRAME.
   (A)   An ordinance to levy a tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds, grant a
franchise, license or right to use or occupy a public street or public property
for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is finally
passed, and in a form remain on file with the Clerk for public inspection at
least six days before final adoption.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read two times
and on two separate days with at least six days between each reading. (S.C.
Code § 5-7-270)
   (C)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on one reading, without notice or
hearing by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members present. An emergency
ordinance may not levy taxes, relate to a franchise or a service rate and shall
expire automatically on day 61 following its enactment.
   (D)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance may be by the reading of
the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of Council.
   (E)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any member of Council or any
city citizen-taxpayer interested therein may request a public hearing which
shall be held at a time designated by the Council prior to final adoption.
   (F)   Upon final adoption, by vote of Council, an ordinance shall be signed
by the Mayor, or presiding member in the absence of the Mayor, and attested by
the Clerk.
(‘88 Code, § 2.117)
§ 30.50 RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   A voice motion by a member of Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution which shall require no written record other
than a notation by the Clerk in the Council minutes. However, a resolution
proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same manner as an ordinance and
in a form as may be recommended as applicable by the City Attorney, when
appropriate. (‘88 Code, § 2.118)
   (B)   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on one reading unless a
public hearing is set by a majority of the members of Council present. (‘88
Code, § 2.119)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Enforcement capabilities
   
31.02   Right of entry
   
31.03   Resisting or interfering prohibited
   
31.04   City Clerk
   
31.05   City Attorney
   
31.06   City Administrator
Cross-reference:
   Property returned upon separation, see §
132.13
§ 31.01 ENFORCEMENT CAPABILITIES.
   All officers and employees shall enforce obedience to all state statutes,
provisions of this code or any resolution, rules and regulations or orders
issued thereunder by lawful authority by instituting the procedures as may be
necessary to the enforcement.
(‘88 Code, § 2.401)
§ 31.02 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Subject to lawful entry requirements, whenever any officer or employee is
required to enter any premises or vehicle as authorized by statute, the
provisions of this code or any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order
issued thereunder, he shall have the right to enter any premises or vehicle at
any reasonable time.
(‘88 Code, § 2.402)
§ 31.03 RESISTING OR INTERFERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or interfere with any member
of the Police Department, Fire Department or any other officer or employee in
the discharge of his official duties.
(‘88 Code, § 2.403) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.04 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment; tenure. The Administrator is hereby appointed City Clerk
and shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. (‘88 Code, § 2.501)
   (B)   Bond. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Clerk shall
enter into bond in a sum as may be required by Council with good and sufficient
surety for the faithful performance of his duties. The fee therefor shall be
paid by the municipality. (‘88 Code, § 2.502)
   (C)   Duties. The Clerk shall serve as ex-officio Clerk of Council, give
notice of meetings, prepare and post the agenda, attend regular and special
meetings, record votes of Council, attest all ordinances and resolutions, keep
minutes of Council meetings and perform other duties as may be assigned by
Council. (S.C. Code § 5-7-220) (‘88 Code, § 2.503)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 31.05 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment; tenure. The Council may appoint a City Attorney who shall
be a lawyer of good and reputable standing who shall hold office at the
pleasure of Council, pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-7-230. (‘88 Code, § 2.601)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Attorney shall attend all meetings of Council, unless excused.
He shall act as parliamentarian. When requested, he shall draft all ordinances
and resolutions and review ordinances, resolutions and documents presented to
Council. He shall give opinions upon questions of municipal procedure, form and
law to any member of Council and other municipal officials, when requested.
      (2)   It also may be the duty of the Attorney to prosecute all cases
before the Municipal Court when a jury trial is demanded or the defendant is
represented by an attorney.
      (3)   The Attorney shall defend the municipality against all civil suits.
(‘88 Code, § 2.602)
   (C)   Compensation. The Attorney shall be compensated as determined by
Council. (‘88 Code, § 2.603)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and duties of attorney, see S.C. Code § 5-7-230
§ 31.06 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Office created. The office of City Administrator is hereby created.
(‘88 Code, § 2.701)
   (B)   Qualifications; term and compensation. The Council shall appoint an
Administrator who shall be the administrative head of the municipal government
under the direction and supervision of the Mayor and Council. He shall be
appointed with regard to merit only. He shall be appointed for an indefinite
term and may be removed by a majority vote of the members of the Council. He
shall be given 30 days notice of the intention of Council to remove him. He
shall receive compensation as the Council shall fix from time to time in the
annual budget. (‘88 Code, § 2.702)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Administrator shall be responsible to the
Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city except as
otherwise specifically provided by law. To that end, he shall have the power
and shall be required to:
      (1)   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the administration of
service, remove all employees, except as limited by Council;
      (2)   When requested to do so, recommend the employment of required
personnel and removal of personnel when the best interest of the city requires
the action;
      (3)   Ensure that all ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the
Council are faithfully executed;
      (4)   Prepare the budget annually, submit it to the Council and be
responsible for its administration after adoption;
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the Council, after the close of the fiscal
year, a complete report on the administrative activities for the preceding
year;
      (6)   Attend all meetings of the Council and recommend for adoption the
measures as he may deem necessary;
      (7)   Submit periodic reports to the Council upon the affairs of the city
and keep the Council fully advised of current financial conditions and future
financial needs; and
      (8)   Perform other duties as may be required of him by the Council.
(‘88 Code, § 2.703)
   (D)   Absence or disability. In the event of the temporary absence or
disability of the Administrator, the Mayor may designate a qualified person to
perform the duties of the Administrator. (‘88 Code, § 2.704)
   (E)   Faithful performance bond required. The Administrator shall give bond
in the amount as may be required by Council with an approved surety company
authorized to act as surety under the laws of the state, for the faithful
performance of the duties of his office. The premium for the bond shall be paid
by the city. (‘88 Code, § 2.705)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Composition
   
32.22   Compensation
   
32.23   Removal of members
   
32.24   Organization; rules of procedure
   
32.25   Public hearings
Fire Department
   
32.30   Maintenance; composition
   
32.31   Appointment of Chief
   
32.32   Rules and regulations
   
32.33   Riding on fire engines
   
32.34   Fireman’s Insurance and Inspection Fund Board of Trustees
Police Department
   
32.40   Composition; authority
   
32.41   Police Chief
   
32.42   Arrests; jurisdiction and offenses
   
32.43   Duties of officers
   
32.44   Prohibited activities; sanctions
Cross-reference:
   Architectural Review Board, see §
152.028(B)
   Jury Commission, see §
34.15
   Municipal Election Commission, see §
30.07(B)
   Tree Committee, see §
96.26
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Planning Commission for the city, which shall
have the powers and duties as provided in S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310 et seq.
(Ord. 98-05-03, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.21 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by
City Council for terms of three years, staggered so that one-third of the
members shall have terms expiring in each year.
   (B)   Members shall serve until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
   (C)   No member of the Planning Commission shall be the holder of an elected
public office in the city.
(Ord. 98-05-03, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.22 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation.
Reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in the performance of official
duties may be reimbursed from budgeted funds pursuant to reimbursement policies
and procedures for employees of the city.
(Ord. 98-05-03, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.23 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   (1)   Members of the Planning Commission may be removed at any time by
City Council for cause.
      (2)   The existence of cause shall be discussed by the Council in
executive session, as permitted by the Freedom of Information Act, S.C. Code §
30-4-70(a)(1), and the determination of removal shall be by vote in public
session declaring a vacancy in the position without a statement of cause.
   (B)   Any fact which, in the discretion of Council, is deemed to adversely
affect the public interest, including lack of attendance at meetings, may
constitute cause.
(Ord. 98-05-03, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.24 ORGANIZATION; RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Planning Commission shall organize, elect officers and adopt rules of
procedure as required by S.C. Code § 6-29-360.
(Ord. 98-05-03, passed 5-19-98)
§ 32.25 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall hold all public hearings on amendments to the
zoning ordinance and map pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-760(A).
(Ord. 98-05-03, passed 5-19-98)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.30 MAINTENANCE; COMPOSITION.
   An adequate, modern and efficient Fire Department shall at all times be
maintained under the supervision of the Mayor and City Council and subject to
the rules and regulations as shall be adopted from time to time for its orderly
operation. The Department shall consist of as many officers, men, engines,
hoses and other equipment as the Mayor and City Council may, from time to time,
determine.
(‘88 Code, § 9.401)
§ 32.31 APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be the chief administrative officer of the Fire
Department and shall be appointed by the City Council.
(‘88 Code, § 9.402)
§ 32.32 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The officers of the Department shall be appointed by the Chief to the
positions as he may deem necessary for the operation of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief, and in his absence, the next ranking officer available,
shall absolutely control and have the management at all fires. All Department
personnel shall be subject to and obey his orders. He shall regulate the
handling of all apparatus.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of all Department personnel to answer all alarms.
   (D)   Any personnel who are found guilty of gambling in any form, drinking
or storing alcoholic beverages, promiscuous use of vulgar or profane language
shall be expelled or suspended by the Chief.
   (E)   All Department personnel shall report to the station after all fires
and perform all duties pertaining to the Department until dismissed by the
Chief or some other officer.
(‘88 Code, § 9.403)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention; Fireworks, see
Chapter 93
§ 32.33 RIDING ON FIRE ENGINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except Department personnel to ride
upon any engine of the Department while going to or from a fire.
(‘88 Code, § 9.404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.34 FIREMAN’S INSURANCE AND INSPECTION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a board of three members to be known as
the Board of Trustees of the Fireman’s Insurance and Inspection Fund.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of the fund established by this section shall be
composed of the Mayor, the City Administrator, and the Fire Chief.
   (C)   All members of the Board created under this division shall serve
without compensation.
   (D)   The Board created under this section shall elect from its number a
Chairman and a secretary, who shall likewise serve without compensation. The
Finance Director of the city shall act as Treasurer of the Board and have
custody of all funds handled by the Board.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees created under this section shall have
supervision of the Fireman’s Insurance and Inspection Fund, both as to the
receipts and disbursements thereof: provided that none of such fund shall be
expended for any purpose other than the betterment and maintenance of a
skillful and efficient fire department in the city.
(Ord. 20-02-01, passed 2-18-20)
State Law References:
   Fireman’s Insurance and Inspection Fund, SC Code 1976, §§ 23-9-310 et seq.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 COMPOSITION; AUTHORITY.
   The Police Department of the city shall consist of a number of persons as
may be appointed by the City Council to act as regular police officers and of
the persons as may be appointed by the City Council to act as police officers
of the city on special occasions or for any length of time other than regular
officers. Any officers are authorized to arrest and commit to the county
detention center, for trial before the Municipal Court any person or persons
who may violate any of the ordinances of the city.
(‘88 Code, § 13.101) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-110
§ 32.41 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief and, in his absence the Acting Chief, at all times, shall
be recognized and respected by each member of the force as his superior
officer.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 32.42 ARRESTS; JURISDICTION AND OFFENSES.
   Police officers are hereby authorized and empowered to make arrests of all
offenders against the municipal ordinances and statutes of the state committed
within the corporate limits and at any place within a radius of two miles of
the corporate limits, with or without a warrant, when the police authorities
are in pursuit of the offender. (‘88 Code, § 13.103)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 32.43 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of police officers to arrest all persons
violating any city ordinances or regulations and to summon any person to their
aid when necessary. Any person or persons, who shall refuse or neglect to obey
the summons, either verbal or written, of a police officer shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (‘88 Code, § 13.105)
   (B)   Police officers shall, whenever necessary in the discharge of their
duty, have the authority to call to their assistance the posse comitatus of the
city. Any person or persons, who may be called to the assistance of any of the
police officers, as aforesaid, shall respond to the call and render the lawful
assistance as may be required. (‘88 Code, § 13.106)
   (C)   Each officer shall complete all Incident Reports and Complaints for
the Supervisor’s review that may have occurred the night previous. (‘88 Code, §
13.108)
   (D)   While on duty, each police officer shall be fully armed, as may be
ordered or required by the Council. He shall be in full uniform, including the
regulation hat in summer and cap in winter, as may be required by the Chief.
His hair and beard shall be neatly trimmed and shaved at all times. (‘88 Code,
§ 13.110)
   (E)   Police officers shall watch the conduct of all persons of suspicious
character. He shall prevent any obstruction of sidewalks or streets. He shall
disperse all crowds of a riotous or noisy nature or of those disturbing the
peace and quiet of the city. (‘88 Code, § 13.111)
   (F)   Each officer shall, at all times, conduct himself in a quiet, genteel
and orderly manner and act with prudence, coolness and judgment, but with a
deliberate determination of effecting and strictly enforcing all the laws and
ordinances of the city. (‘88 Code, § 13.112)
   (G)   While off duty, members of the police force shall retain their police
powers, as occasions may require. (‘88 Code, § 13.113)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 32.44 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES; SANCTIONS.
   (A)   While on duty, all members of the Police Department shall be strictly
prohibited from drinking any kind of intoxicating liquors. (‘88 Code, § 13.115)
   (B)   No member of the Department shall discuss publicly the conduct of any
other police officer. All complaints shall be made to the Chief. (‘88 Code, §
13.116)
   (C)   Should any member of the Department fail or neglect, in any way, to
obey the rules and regulations set forth in this subchapter or hereafter
adopted, he shall be subject to appropriate reprimand.
(‘88 Code, § 13.117) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
Cross-reference:
   Police at fires; prohibited activities, see §
93.11
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fiscal year
   
33.02   Budget and accounting year
   
33.03   Annual budget work programs
   
33.04   Capital projects prepared
   
33.05   Budget summary; expenses
   
33.06   Public hearing on budget
   
33.07   Budget changes
   
33.08   Inspection and filing
   
33.09   Adoption required
   
33.10   Appropriations
   
33.11   Tax levy stated in budget
   
33.12   Reports; checks
   
33.13   Audit
   
33.14   Borrowing in anticipation
   
33.15   Payment of notes
   
33.16   Collection cost for delinquent debts
Purchasing Procedure
   
33.25   Purchasing agent; duties
   
33.26   Formal contract procedure
   
33.27   Bidding procedure
   
33.28   Materials testing
   
33.29   Financial interest prohibited
   
33.30   Records and reports
   
33.31   Surplus stock
   
33.32   Unsuitable supplies
   
33.33   Gifts and rebates
   
33.34   Cooperative purchases
   
33.35   State purchasing
   
33.36   Local preference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall begin on the first day of the month of May and shall
end on the last day of the month of the following April.
(‘88 Code, § 8.101)
§ 33.02 BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING YEAR.
   The fiscal year also shall constitute the budget and accounting year.
(‘88 Code, § 8.102)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET WORK PROGRAMS.
   Before the beginning of the budget year, the head of each office or
department shall submit a budget work program for the ensuing year to the City
Administrator.
(‘88 Code, § 8.103)
§ 33.04 CAPITAL PROJECTS PREPARED.
   Each budget year, a budget shall be prepared by the City Administrator prior
to the new fiscal year. For the purpose, he shall obtain from the heads of each
office or department, and in the detail as he may require, estimates of
expenditures and other supporting data as he may request, together with
estimates of all capital projects pending or which the department head believes
should be undertaken within the budget year and within the next five succeeding
years.
(‘88 Code, § 8.104)
Statutory reference:
   Operating and capital budgets required, see S.C. Code § 5-11-40(c)
§ 33.05 BUDGET SUMMARY; EXPENSES.
   (A)   The budget summary shall be in sufficient detail and summarized as to
income and expenditures in a manner as to present to taxpayers a simple and
clear summary of the budget. (‘88 Code, § 8.105)
   (B)   Separate provisions may be included in the budget for contingent
expenses for the administration, operation and maintenance of the city. (‘88
Code, § 8.106)
   (C)   The anticipated revenues and proposed expenditures of all utilities
shall be stated in a separate section or sections of the budget. All provisions
relating to the preparation and administration of the general budget shall
apply to the budget of the utility. (‘88 Code, § 8.107)
§ 33.06 PUBLIC HEARING ON BUDGET.
   The Council shall determine a place and time for a public hearing on the
budget and shall post a notice thereof which shall be not less than five days
before the date of the hearing.
(‘88 Code, § 8.108)
§ 33.07 BUDGET CHANGES.
   After the conclusion of a public hearing, the Council may insert new items
or may increase, decrease or delete the items of the budget. Should the total
proposed expenditures be increased, the total anticipated revenues shall be
increased by an amount at least equal to the proposed total expenditures,
except for items of capital outlay or other expenditures to be financed through
sources not listed or contained in the budget.
(‘88 Code, § 8.109)
§ 33.08 INSPECTION AND FILING.
   (A)   Upon final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget
year. The budget and all supporting schedules shall be a public record in the
office of the City Clerk, for public inspection during regular office hours.
(‘88 Code, § 8.110)
   (B)   A permanent copy of the budget, as finally adopted, shall be filed in
the office of the Clerk.
(‘88 Code, § 8.111)
§ 33.09 ADOPTION REQUIRED.
   Should the Council fail to adopt a budget by ordinance for the next fiscal
year, on or before its beginning, the budget as initially proposed to the
Council shall be effective until finally adopted.
(‘88 Code, § 8.112)
§ 33.10 APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   From the effective date of the budget, the several amounts stated
therein as proposed expenditures shall be and become appropriated to the
several objects and purposes therein named. (‘88 Code, § 8.113)
   (B)   All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the budget year to the
extent that they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered. (‘88
Code, § 8.115)
   (C)   In the absence of unappropriated available revenues to meet emergency
appropriations, the Council may authorize by ordinance the issuance of notes,
which may be renewed from time to time, but all notes and renewals thereof
shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next succeeding
the budget year in which the emergency appropriation was made. (‘88 Code, §
8.116)
§ 33.11 TAX LEVY STATED IN BUDGET.
   (A)   The Council shall identify in budget sources of anticipated revenue,
including tax levy necessary to meet the financial requirements of the budgets
as required by S.C. Code § 5-11-40(c).
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to notify the appropriate county
officials of any change in the tax mileage rates.
(‘88 Code, § 8.117)
§ 33.12 REPORTS; CHECKS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall furnish to the Council quarterly financial statements
of all receipts and disbursements. (‘88 Code, § 8.118)
   (B)   All disbursements shall be by check and signed by two of the
following: Administrator, Treasurer, Accounting Clerk, Personnel Supervisor and
Finance Director. (‘88 Code, § 8.119)
   (C)   All dishonored checks payable to the city and redeemed by the maker
shall have added to the principal sum a collection fee for each check to be
determined by the City Council from time to time. (‘88 Code, § 8.120) (Ord.
passed 10-27-81)
§ 33.13 AUDIT.
   (A)   Prior to the end of each fiscal year, the Council shall designate a
qualified certified public accountant who, at the end of the fiscal year, shall
make an independent audit of the accounts and other evidence of financial
transactions of the municipality and shall submit a report to the Council.
   (B)   The accountant shall have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in
the fiscal affairs of the municipality or of any of its officers. He shall,
within specifications approved by Council, post-audit the books and documents
kept by any office, department, board or agency of the municipality.
(‘88 Code, § 8.121)
§ 33.14 BORROWING IN ANTICIPATION.
   The Council may, during each calendar year, borrow money for its current
expenses and pledge for the payment of any moneys so borrowed the taxes
becoming payable during the calendar year.
(‘88 Code, § 8.122)
§ 33.15 PAYMENT OF NOTES.
   (A)   The power and obligation of the Council to pay notes issued by it
pursuant to this subchapter shall be unlimited, and the Council may levy ad
valorem taxes on all the taxable property within the corporate limits for the
payment of the notes and interest thereon.
   (B)   The full faith and credit of the municipality shall be pledged for the
payment of the principal and interest on any notes issued, pursuant to this
subchapter.
(‘88 Code, § 8.123)
§ 33.16 COLLECTION COST FOR DELINQUENT DEBTS.
   (A)   The City of Bennettsville may impose a collection cost of up to $25 to
defray its internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that are
sought to be collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt Collection
Act, S.C. Code Ann. § 12-5610 et seq. This cost is hereby declared to be a
collection cost that arises by operation of law and shall be added to the
delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
   (B)   The City of Bennettsville hereby declares that the administrative fee
charged by the Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection
cost to the city, which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and
recovered from the debtor.
(Ord. passed 2-19-19)
PURCHASING PROCEDURE
§ 33.25 PURCHASING AGENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Administrator or an officer of the city designated by the
City Administrator, with approval of Council, shall be the Purchasing Agent for
the city.
   (B)   He shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The purchase of supplies, materials and equipment and contractual
services required by any office, department or agency of the city government.
      (2)   The storage and distribution of all supplies, materials, and
equipment required by an office, department or agency of the city government.
      (3)   Establishing written specifications, whenever practicable, for
supplies, materials, and equipment required by an office, department, or agency
of the city government. Such specifications shall be definite and certain and
shall permit of competition.
      (4)   Maintaining, whenever practicable, a perpetual inventory record of
all materials, supplies, or equipment stores in storerooms or warehouses.
      (5)   Soliciting and maintaining an up-to-date list of qualified
suppliers who have requested their names be added to a “bidders list”. The
Purchasing Agent shall have authority to remove temporarily the names of
vendors who have defaulted on their quotations, attempted to defraud the city
or who have failed to meet established specifications or delivery dates.
      (6)   Obtaining as full and open competition as possible on all
purchases, contracts, and sales.
(‘88 Code, § 8.401) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.26 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided
herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $15,000, shall be
purchased by formal, written contract from the lowest responsible bidder, after
due notice inviting proposals. No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to
avoid the requirements of this section. All sales of personal property which
have become obsolete or unusable, when the estimated value shall exceed
$15,000, shall be sold by formal written contract to the highest bidder, after
due notice inviting proposals, or at public auction properly advertised at the
discretion of the Council.
   (B)   All contracts for city improvements, materials, equipment, or services
costing more than $15,000 shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder
after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least
five days before the last day set for receipt of proposals, unless otherwise
provided here within. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the articles or services to be purchased, shall state
where bid blanks and specifications may be secured and the time and place for
opening bids.
(‘88 Code, § 8.402) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.27 BIDDING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before any purchases or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment
or services exceeding $15,000 are made, the Purchasing Agent shall give ample
opportunity for competitive bidding. For purchases or contracts not exceeding
$5,000, oral bids may be accepted. All other bids shall be in writing.
   (B)   All city contracts shall be awarded by competitive bidding except the
following methods of source selection:
      (1)   Competitive sealed proposals.
      (2)   Negotiations after unsuccessful competitive sealed bidding.
      (3)   Small purchases.
      (4)   Sole source procurement.
      (5)   Emergency procurement.
      (6)   Procurement of information technology.
      (7)   Leasing of real property for governmental use.
      (8)   State contracts.
      (9)   Professional services where the person employed is customarily
employed on a fee basis rather than by competitive bidding (example: appraiser,
architect, engineer, auditor, legal services, physician).
      (10)   Based on previously awarded low bid when it is to the advantage of
the city.
   (C)   The Council shall not exempt individual contracts, purchases or sales
from the requirement of competitive bidding. However, in the event of an
emergency affecting the public welfare, health or safety, or when the
interruption of a project due to the need of an item or service will directly
affect the efficient or orderly completion of the project, and when the normal
purchasing procedures will cause an excessive delay in obtaining the needed
parts and services the provisions of this section shall not apply. A full
report of the circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the
Purchasing Agent with the records of the transaction unless above $15,000,
which shall be filed with the City Council.
(‘88 Code, § 8.403)
   (D)    Award to lowest bidder. The Purchasing Agent with the approval of the
City Administrator shall have the authority to award contracts within the
purview of this subchapter; provided, however, that contracts in excess of
$15,000 that are not awarded to the lowest bidder shall be approved by City
Council prior to award and that contracts under $15,000 not awarded to the
lowest bidder in excess of ten percent, shall be approved by City Council,
unless otherwise provided within. When the award is not given to the lowest
bidder; a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the order
elsewhere shall be prepared by the Purchasing Agent and filed with the papers
relating to the transaction.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the Purchasing Agent, bid
deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Upon entering
into a contract, bidders shall be entitled to return of bid deposit. A
successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit upon failure on his part to
enter into a contract within ten days after the award; provided, however, that
the city, in its uncontrolled discretion, may waive this forfeiture. (‘88 Code,
§ 8.405)
   (F)   Sealed bid procedures. Procedure for sealed bids shall be as follows:
      (1)   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the Purchasing Agent securely
sealed in an envelope, and shall be identified on the envelope in accordance
with bid instructions.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notices.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available
for public inspection.
      (4)   Rejection of bids. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
      (5)   Bidders in default to city. The Purchasing Agent shall not accept
the bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in the payment of taxes,
license or other moneys due the city.
      (6)   Award of contract. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining “lowest responsible bidder”, in addition to
price, the Purchasing Agent shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the services required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the services for which he submitted a
bid;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (7)   Tie bids; local vendors. If all bids received are for the same
total amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall
be awarded to the local bidder. If two or more of such bids are submitted by
local bidders, the Purchasing Agent shall award the contract to one of the
local tie bidders by drawing lots in public. If local bidders are not involved
in the tie bids, the Purchasing Agent shall award the contract to one of the
outside tie bidders by drawing lots in public.
      (8)   Performance bonds. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to
require a performance bond before entering into a contract, in such form and
amount, as he shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interest of
the city.
      (9)   Purchase order required. All purchases made for and on behalf of
the city, except as set out within this section, shall be authorized by a
purchase order issued by the Purchasing Agent.
(‘88 Code, § 8.406)
(Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.28 MATERIALS TESTING.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries, which
are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications. In the performance of such tests, he shall have the authority
to make use of laboratory facilities of any agency of the city or any outside
laboratories.
(‘88 Code, § 8.407) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.29 FINANCIAL INTEREST PROHIBITED.
   Any municipal officer or employee who has a substantial financial interest
in any business which contracts with the municipality for sale or lease of
land, materials, supplies, equipment or services or who personally engages in
such matters shall make known that interest and refrain from voting upon or
otherwise participating in his capacity as a city officer or employee in
matters related thereto. Any city officer or employee who willfully conceals
such a substantial financial interest or willfully violates the requirements of
this section shall constitute malfeasance in office and, upon conviction, shall
forfeit his office or position. Violation of this section with the express or
implied knowledge of the person or corporation contracting with or making a
sale to the city, may render the contract void by the City Council.
(‘88 Code, § 8.408) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.30 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agent shall keep a record of all open market orders and
the bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records also shall be open
to public inspection. (‘88 Code, § 8.409)
   (B)   Reports shall be made to the Purchasing Agent, at such times and in
such form as he shall prescribe, showing stocks of all supplies which are no
longer used by the city. (‘88 Code, § 8.410)
(Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.31 SURPLUS STOCK.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to transfer surplus stock to other
offices, departments or agencies of the city government.
(‘88 Code, § 8.411) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.32 UNSUITABLE SUPPLIES.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to sell all supplies, which
have become obsolete or unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for,
or trade-in the same on, new supplies. Such sales shall be made to the highest
bidder after due notice inviting proposals and bidders.
   (B)   The following are exceptions:
      (1)   Items that have been determined as discarded or “junk”. These items
must be discarded as refuse.
      (2)   Donations of any items with an estimated value of $500 or less to a
not-for-profit organization on a first-come, first-serve basis. The City
Administrator must approve any donation above an estimated value of $500.
      (3)   Sale of items to another government or public entity or not-for-
profit organization; an agreement of sale will be negotiated with the
Purchasing Agent and must have the approval of the City Administrator.
   (C)   All moneys received from such sales shall be paid into either the
general fund or the utility fund of the city, as appropriate.
(‘88 Code, § 8.412) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00;
Am. Ord. 02-06-01, passed 6-18-02)
§ 33.33 GIFTS AND REBATES.
   The Purchasing Agent and every officer and employee of the city are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is, or
might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money, or anything of value whatsoever,
except where given for the use and benefit of the city.
(‘88 Code, § 8.413) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.34 COOPERATIVE PURCHASES.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interest of the city
would be served thereby.
(‘88 Code, § 8.414) (Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.35 STATE PURCHASING.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to make purchases of supplies and
equipment through the property division of the State Budget and Control Board,
without the formality of publication and receiving competitive bids.
(‘88 Code, § 8.415) (Ord. 83-15-0, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord.
00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
§ 33.36 LOCAL PREFERENCE.
   The city reserves the right to show preference to local bidders in the
purchase of supplies, equipment and services. The amount shall not exceed ten
percent of the amount bid or quoted up to a maximum of $500 for supplies,
materials and equipment. The amount shall not exceed ten percent of the amount
bid or quoted up to a maximum of $5,000 for contractors and professional
services. A “local bidder” is defined as an individual or business that
maintains a place of business or maintains an inventory of merchandise or
equipment in the city, is licensed by the city and is subject to City of
Bennettsville property taxes. Any local bidder in default on payment of any
city tax or license shall not be eligible to receive preference until all taxes
or licenses due are paid. Notice of preference availability shall be included
in the invitation to bid and in all advertisements.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 00-12-01, passed 12-19-00)
CHAPTER 34: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Establishment; jurisdiction
   
34.02   City Judge
   
34.03   Clerk of Court
   
34.04   Sessions
   
34.05   Findings of Judge; penalties
Juries
   
34.15   Jury commissioners
Cross-reference:
   Swearing falsely under oath, see §
132.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Municipal Court which shall be a part of
the unified judicial system of the state. (‘88 Code, § 7.101)
   (B)   The Court shall have jurisdiction to try and determine all cases
arising under the ordinances of the city and shall have all judicial powers and
duties as are conferred by the laws of the state. The Court shall have all
powers, duties and jurisdiction in criminal cases as are now conferred by law
upon magistrates appointed and commissioned in this county. The Court shall not
have the authority of a magistrate to appoint a constable. It shall have no
jurisdiction in civil matters. (‘88 Code, § 7.102)
§ 34.02 CITY JUDGE.
   (A)   The Court shall be presided over by the City Judge who shall be
appointed by the Council for a term not to exceed four years and shall receive
compensation as determined by Council. Before entering upon the discharge of
the duties of his office, he shall take and subscribe the oath of office
prescribed by Article VI, Section 5, of the South Carolina Constitution. The
Judge shall not be required to be a resident of the city. (‘88 Code, § 7.103)
   (B)   The Council may appoint a competent person as Acting Judge during the
absence, sickness, incapacity or other disqualification of the City Judge. (‘88
Code, § 7.104)
   (C)   The Council may contract with Marlboro County for Municipal Judge
service.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 34.03 CLERK OF COURT.
   The Council shall designate a Clerk of Court who shall keep records and make
reports as may be required by the Judge or the State Court Administrator.
(‘88 Code, § 7.105)
§ 34.04 SESSIONS OF THE COURT.
   The Council shall establish a regular place for the Court to hold its
sessions.
(‘88 Code, § 7.106)
§ 34.05 FINDINGS OF JUDGE; PENALTIES.
   (A)   If the City Judge shall find a party guilty of violating an ordinance
or a state law within the jurisdiction of his court, he may impose the fine or
imprisonment, or both, prescribed in §
10.99. (S.C. Code § 14-25-65) (‘88 Code, § 7.301)
   (B)   All revenues arising from fines shall be turned over by the Clerk of
Court to the Finance Department of the municipality. (S.C. Code § 14-25-85)
(‘88 Code, § 7.302)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
JURIES
§ 34.15 JURY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Selection and conduct of juries shall conform to all applicable state
law, including but not limited to S.C. Code §§ 14-25-135 et seq.
(S.C. Code §§ 14-25-135 and 14-25-145) (‘88 Code, § 7.201) (Am. Ord. passed 11-
20-12)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   Annual property tax
   
35.02   Special property tax assessments for rehabilitated historic properties
Cross-reference:
   Local Hospitality Tax, see
Ch. 112
§ 35.01 ANNUAL PROPERTY TAX.
   (A)   The Council shall impose, by ordinance, an annual tax on all real
estate and all personal property within the corporate limits, on all insurance
companies and other corporations and the real estate of churches and school
associations from which the church and school associations draw a revenue or
which is intended to be rented out for such a purpose, except such as is exempt
from taxation under the Constitution and laws of this state, as will yield an
amount necessary for general fund operating purposes and for debt service
requirements. Tax collection service is provided by Marlboro County.
   (B)   Any change in the tax shall be by ordinance.
(‘88 Code, § 8.201.1) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 35.02 SPECIAL PROPERTY TAX ASSESSMENTS FOR REHABILITATED HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Special tax assessment created. A special tax assessment is created
for eligible rehabilitated historic properties for 20 years equal to the
appraised value of the property at the time of preliminary certification.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this division to:
      (1)   Encourage the restoration of historic properties;
      (2)   Promote community development and redevelopment;
      (3)   Encourage sound community planning; and
      (4)   Promote the general health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   (C)   Eligible properties. Certification to be eligible for the special tax
assessment, historic properties must receive preliminary and final
certification.
      (1)   To receive preliminary certification a property must meet the
following conditions:
         (a)   The property has received historic designation;
         (b)   The proposed rehabilitation work receives approval from the
Board of Architectural Review (BAR);
         (c)   Be a project that commenced by or after September 17, 2002,
(Ord. No. 02-09-01) to the date of the adoption of this section and work was
permitted to have begun prior to receiving preliminary certification; or
         (d)   Be a project that commences on or after the date of the adoption
of this section. Preliminary certification must be received prior to beginning
work.
      (2)   To receive final certification, a property must have met the
following conditions:
         (a)   The property has received preliminary certification;
         (b)   The minimum expenditures for rehabilitation were incurred and
paid; and
         (c)   The completed rehabilitation receives approval from the
secretary to the BAR as being consistent with the plans approved by BAR as part
of preliminary certification.
   (D)   Historic designation. As used in this section, HISTORIC DESIGNATION
means the property maintains one or more of the following:
      (1)   The property is listed on the National Register of Historic Places
either individually or as a contributing property in a district.
      (2)   The property is at least 50 years old and is an individual landmark
or a contributing property in a local district as designated by City Council as
listed in §
152.028.
   (E)   Eligible rehabilitation.
      (1)   Standards for rehabilitation work. To be eligible for the special
tax assessment, historic rehabilitations must be appropriate for the historic
building and the historic district in which it is located. This is achieved
through adherence to the following standards (See § 152.028):
         (a)   Design guidelines.
         (b)   The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation.
   (F)   Work to be reviewed. The following work will be reviewed according to
the standards set forth above:
      (1)   Repairs to the exterior of the designated building.
      (2)   Alterations to the exterior of the designated building.
      (3)   New construction on the property on which the building is located.
      (4)   Alterations to interior primary public spaces.
      (5)   Any remaining work where the expenditures for such work are being
used to satisfy the minimum expenditures for rehabilitation.
   (G)   Minimum expenditures. For rehabilitation mean the owner or the owner’s
estate rehabilitates the building, with expenditures for rehabilitation
exceeding 20% of the fair market value of the building. Fair market value means
the appraised value as certified to the BAR by a real estate appraiser licensed
by the state or the sales price as delineated in a bona fide contract of sale
within 12 months of the time it is submitted.
      (1)   Expenditures for rehabilitation means the actual cost of
rehabilitation relating to one or more of the following:
         (a)   Improvements located on or within the historic building as
designated.
         (b)   Improvements outside of but directly attached to the historic
building which are necessary to make the building fully useable (such as
vertical circulation) but shall not include rentable/habitable floorspace
attributable to new construction.
         (c)   Architectural and engineering services attributable to the
design of the improvements.
         (d)   Costs necessary to maintain the historic character or integrity
of the building.
   (H)   Scope. The special tax assessment may apply to the following:
      (1)   Structure(s) rehabilitated.
      (2)   Real property on which the building is located.
   (I)   Time limits. To be eligible for the special tax assessment,
rehabilitation must be completed within two years of the preliminary
certification date. If the project is not complete after two years, but the
minimum expenditures for rehabilitation have been incurred, the property
continues to receive the special assessment until the project is completed or
until the end of the special assessment period, whichever shall first occur.
   (J)   Process.
      (1)   Fee required. There is a fee of $150 required for final
certification for each application for review of rehabilitation work of single-
family and/or duplex structures and $300 for all other structures. Fees are
payable to the city, and final certification will not be given without payment
of this fee.
      (2)   Plan required. Owners of property seeking approval of
rehabilitation work must submit a rehabilitation historic property application
with supporting documentation, such as architectural or engineering stamped
plans and application fee prior to beginning work.
      (3)   Preliminary certification. Upon receipt of the completed
application, the proposal shall be placed on the next available agenda of the
BAR to determine if the project is consistent with the standards for
rehabilitation in §
152.028(I)(2) above. After the BAR makes its determination, the owner shall be
notified in writing. Upon receipt of this determination the owner may:
         (a)   If the application is approved, begin rehabilitation.
         (b)   If the application is not approved, he may revise such
application in accordance with comments provided by the BAR.
   (K)   Substantive changes. Once preliminary certification is granted to an
application, substantive changes must be approved by BAR. Unapproved
substantive changes are conducted at the risk of the property owner and may
disqualify the project from eligibility. Additional expenditures will not
qualify the project for an extension on the special assessment.
   (L)   Final certification. Upon completion of the project, the project must
receive final certification to be eligible for special assessment. The
secretary to the BAR will inspect completed projects to determine if the work
is consistent with the approval granted by the BAR pursuant to §
152.028(I)(2). Final certification will be granted when the completed work
meets the standards and verification is made that expenditures have been made
in accordance with division (F) above. Upon receiving final certification, the
property will be assessed for the remainder of the special assessment period on
the fair market value of the property at the time the preliminary certification
was made, or the final certification was made, whichever occurred earlier.
   (M)   Additional work. For the remainder of the special assessment period
after national certification, the property owner shall notify the BAR of any
additional work, other than ordinary maintenance. The BAR will review the work
at a regularly scheduled hearing and determine whether the overall project is
consistent with the standards for rehabilitation. If the additional work is
found to be inconsistent the property owner may withdraw his request and cancel
or revise the proposed additional work.
   (N)   Decertification. When the property has received national certification
and has been assessed as rehabilitated historic property, it remains so
certified and must be granted the special assessment until the property becomes
disqualified by any one of the following:
      (1)   Written notice from the owner to the BAR and the auditor requesting
removal of the preferential assessment;
      (2)   Removal of the historic designation by the City Council; or
      (3)   Rescission of the approval of rehabilitation by the BAR because of
alterations or renovation by the owner or the owner’s estate which causes the
property to no longer possess the qualities and features which made it eligible
for final certification. Notification of any change affecting eligibility must
be given immediately to the Marlboro County Assessor, Auditor, and Treasurer.
   (O)   Notification. The city shall, upon national certification of a
property, notify the Marlboro County Assessor, Auditor and Treasurer that such
property has been duly certified and is eligible for the special tax
assessment.
   (P)   Date effective. If an application for preliminary or final
certification is led by May 1 or the preliminary or final certification is
approved by August 1, the special assessment authorized herein is effective for
that year. Otherwise, it is effective beginning with the following year. The
special assessment only begins in the current or future tax years as provided
for in this section. In no instance may the special assessment be applied
retroactively.
   (Q)   Application. Once the BAR has granted the special property tax
assessments authorized herein, the owner of the property shall make application
to the Marlboro County Auditor for the special assessment provided for herein.
(Ord. 22-05-01, passed 5-17-22)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
         APPENDIX: UTILITY FEES
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   GAS SYSTEM
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
      
54.   GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
      
55.   WATER
      
56.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Combined utility systems
   
50.02   Authority and control
   
50.03   Fiscal year
   
50.04   Billings for one system
   
50.05   Deposits; discontinuance of service
   
50.06   Service charges
   
50.07   Metering of services
   
50.08   Consumer claims; restrictions
   
50.09   Erection of poles and the like; liability
   
50.10   Service contracts
   
Appendix: Utility fees
§ 50.01 COMBINED UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   The water and sewerage systems and the electrical and gas systems of the
city, together with all improvements, extensions and betterments thereto, are
hereby combined into one system and shall be known as the combined utility
system of the city.
(‘88 Code, § 17.101)
§ 50.02 AUTHORITY AND CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   The combined utility system shall be under the direct control of
the City Council, and all rates shall be fixed by it.
      (2)   Rules and regulations as are necessary and proper for an orderly
and businesslike operation of the system shall be adopted from time to time.
(‘88 Code, § 17.201)
   (B)   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted for an orderly
operation of the combined utility system:
      (1)   The City Council shall select a competent person as Director of
Public Utilities and, with the advice of the Director, select the necessary
employees, fix their salaries and prescribe their duties.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 50.03 FISCAL YEAR.
   The combined utility system shall be operated on a fiscal year basis,
commencing on May 1 of each year and ending on April 30 of the succeeding year.
(‘88 Code, § 17.202)
§ 50.04 BILLINGS FOR ONE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Bills for the utility systems service will be issued monthly by the
Utility Department of the city, hereinafter referred to as the Department,
unless specifically stated to the contrary. The Department will make every
reasonable effort to see that each patron of the Department receives his bill,
but no responsibility will be assumed for nondelivery when a bill has been
mailed at the Post Office.
   (B)   All bills shall be mailed on the 10th and 25th of each calendar month
according to cycle for billing. The bills shall be paid on or before the
twentieth day of the month in which rendered. Any person failing to make
payment as above provided shall pay a penalty of 10% of the total amount of the
monthly bill and shall be subject to having his water, sewer and gas services
disconnected without notice. In the event the services are disconnected as
above provided, a fee as designated by City Council from time to time as
necessary shall be charged for reconnecting water and sewer service and a fee
as designated by City Council from time to time as necessary for reconnecting
gas service.
(‘88 Code, § 17.203) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 50.05 DEPOSITS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   A deposit equal to two months probable service will be required from
all users of gas, water and sewer, but the owner of any premises served with
gas, water and sewer will be exempted from the deposits. In the event the owner
rents the premises to a tenant, the tenant will be required to make a deposit
unless the owner, by guaranteeing the bill, assumes all obligations in regard
to service rendered the premises and, in the event the tenant fails to pay
bills for service rendered, the owner agrees to pay the same. Until the bills
are paid in full, no further service will be furnished the premises.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to discontinue water, gas and sewer
service to a consumer who either is indebted for one of these services
previously furnished to him or has a member of his household, family or
business who is indebted for any of these services previously furnished.
(‘88 Code, § 17.204)
   (B)   (1)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service immediately
if it is found that an electric, gas or water meter has been tampered with.
      (2)   All electric meters on the city system shall be sealed to prevent
meter tampering. Upon detection of a broken meter seal, electric service will
be discontinued immediately and a cut-seal charge of $150 will be added to the
customer’s utility bill. Electric service will not be restored until the $150
cut-seal charge is paid in full.
      (3)   The city also reserves the right to prosecute a utility customer
guilty of meter tampering in accordance with the Code of Laws of South Carolina
as amended.
(‘88 Code, § 17.205)
§ 50.06 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Utility service charges shall be as designated by City Council from
time to time as necessary.
   (B)   A 10% penalty shall be charged for late payment of all utility bills.
(‘88 Code, § 17.206) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 50.07 METERING OF SERVICES.
   All services shall be metered. Where electric or water meters fail to
register, bills shall be computed by taking an average of the three most recent
months. Where gas meters fail to register, bills shall be computed by
comparison with the same month of the previous year. When, at the request of
the customer or otherwise, electric, gas or water meters have been tested by
the Department, or any other party approved by the Department, and found to be
more than 3% fast, previous bills reflecting the inaccuracy will be adjusted
accordingly, but in no case will adjustment exceed six months prior billing. If
a meter is tested at the consumer’s request more than once in any six-month
period, the consumer shall pay a service charge as designated by City Council
from time to time as necessary for the service. In the event the meter is found
to be more than 3% fast, the consumer shall have his bill adjusted as stated
above, and no service charge will be applied.
(‘88 Code, § 17.207)
§ 50.08 CONSUMER CLAIMS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No claim or demand that a consumer may have against the city shall be
considered as an offset for payment for services furnished under these
regulations. (‘88 Code, § 17.208)
   (B)   The electric, gas, water and sewer services delivered to the consumer
shall be for the purpose of operating machinery, apparatus and appliances in
and upon the consumer’s plant or premises and for those purposes only. The
consumer shall not use, apply or permit to be used or applied, any services at
any place or in any manner or for any purpose, other than as provided for in
the service contract. The service consumer shall not have the right to transfer
or assign his contract, nor to sell or dispose of to others, the whole or any
part of the services delivered. (‘88 Code, § 17.209)
§ 50.09 ERECTION OF POLES AND THE LIKE; LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Department shall exercise due care and caution in the
erection, excavation, installing, and the like, of service wires, poles, pipes
and other pertinent equipment on the consumer’s premises. The consumer shall
agree that employees of the Department, and its agents, shall have the right to
enter the consumer’s premises for the purpose of making all necessary
installations, inspections, repairs and readings and for any other reasons for
administering this service.
      (2)   Any installation made by the Department will be subject to removal
or change only by the Department, its agents or successors. (‘88 Code, §
17.210)
   (B)   The Department shall use reasonable diligence in providing regular and
uninterrupted supply of electricity, gas or water, but should the supply of
electricity, gas and/or water be interrupted or fail by accident or any cause
whatsoever, except negligence on the part of the Department, the Department
shall not be liable for the interruption or failure and the Department shall
not be liable for any damage sustained by the consumer by reason thereof. (‘88
Code, § 17.211)
§ 50.10 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   The rules and regulations found in this chapter shall be referred to in, and
made a part of, each contract for electric, gas or water service.
(‘88 Code, § 17.212)
APPENDIX: UTILITY FEES
Combined Utilities
All fees, rates and charges are adopted by Council each fiscal year and are
subject to change from time to time as necessary.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Administration; authority
   
51.03   Accountability
   
51.04   Containers; construction and placement
   
51.05   Collection; districts and hours
   
51.06   Unlawful deposit; brown goods
   
51.07   Yard trash; trimmings and prunings
   
51.08   Construction wastes
   
51.09   Notice of violations; review
   
51.10   Fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The cold residue from the burning of wood, coal or other combustible
materials.
   COMMERCIAL CONTAINER or BULK CONTAINER. A metal container, provided by the
customer, of not less than four cubic yards or larger than eight cubic yards
capacity, to be water tight, of all steel construction, with doors opening on
top and on sides in larger containers, and shall be constructed to be emptied
by a self-loading truck. The container shall be of standard design, suitable
for pick-up by city vehicles, and approved by the Public Works Director and
subject to approval of the City Administrator.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE or BUILDING WASTE. Any and all refuse or residue
resulting from building construction, repairs or demolition, and shall include
grading, shrubbing, and the like, in connection with any building or landscape
work on any premises, commercial or residential, or from replacement of
building equipment or appliances.
   CURBSIDE. The area at the edge of the road where garbage and trash shall be
placed. That area immediately adjacent to the edge of the roadway.
   ENVIRONMENTAL INSPECTOR. Any police officer, inspection officer, litter
control officer or other city employee as may be designated an ENVIRONMENTAL
INSPECTOR by the Administrator.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Includes paint, poison, acids, caustics, explosives,
chemicals, petroleum derivatives, hot ashes or coals or highly contaminated
material such as human or animal waste, which would constitute a danger to
collection personnel or to anyone who may come in contact with the waste.
   HOUSEHOLD. A house or tenement.
   HOUSEHOLDER. One who occupies a house or tenement alone or as the head of a
household.
   REFUSE or RUBBISH. Includes yard clippings, cardboard boxes, leaves, tree
trimmings, grass clippings and clippings from shrubs in the yard of a house
holder. This is to include white goods, washing machines, stoves, hot water
heaters, refrigerators, and the like.
   ROLL-A-WASTE CONTAINER. A type of garbage container provided by the city and
specified by the City Council and/or City Administrator, for use in garbage
collection. The container shall remain the property of the city.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord. 019-01-020, passed 1-15-19)
§ 51.02 ADMINISTRATION; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Administrator as the chief administrative officer of
the city is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the
provisions contained in this chapter.
      (2)   Whenever in this chapter the City Administrator or the Public Works
Director are vested with discretion to act in certain matters, under guidelines
established for the proper exercise of the discretion, either may, at his
election, act through a designee observing the same guidelines which would be
applicable to the City Administrator or Public Works Director.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall empower specified employees of the city
to be environmental inspectors and to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Environmental inspectors shall inspect alleged violations, issue warning
notices of violations setting forth the corrective measures required, perform
reinspections to determine compliance, order abatement measures, initiate
police or court action, testify if indicated, and shall perform other duties as
shall be required for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   An environmental inspector of the city shall have the responsibility
of making a systematic, street-by-street inspections of the city to determine
compliance with this chapter. An environmental inspector shall promptly inspect
and make required determinations whenever a complaint is made by a citizen.
   (D)   The environmental inspectors of the city are hereby expressly
authorized to go upon private property for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
with, hinder or refuse to allow any properly identified public official to
enter upon private property for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94)
§ 51.03 ACCOUNTABILITY.
   Whenever the owner of any property shall place any occupant, tenant or other
person in charge of any property, the occupant, tenant or other person in
charge may be held personally accountable for permitting or allowing any
violation of this chapter, as in the case of any other misdemeanor, and the
owner may be held personally accountable for any costs incurred by the city in
taking corrective action, whether the failure of action is occasioned by the
owners, occupant, tenant or other person in charge of the property.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94)
§ 51.04 CONTAINERS; CONSTRUCTION AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Containers; garbage and recyclables.
      (1)   All single-family residential units within the city shall have a
mobile roll-a-waste container. Roll-a-waste containers shall be 95-gallon size
with wheels and lids as approved by the Public Works Director. One roll-a-waste
container will be furnished to each household and/or property owner in the city
and will remain the property of the city. Owners of households receiving
service for the first time due to new construction or annexation shall be
provided with a roll-a-waste container by the city which will remain the
property of the city. Future replacement of containers for any reason other
than the negligence of the city shall be a the expense of the property owner.
The City Public Works Director shall notify the property owner of the cost of
the container and the requirements for payment before service can be continued
or commenced. Roll-a-waste containers shall not be altered in any way which
would impede proper garbage disposal service.
      (2)   In the event one roll-a-waste container is not sufficient to hold
the quantity of garbage accumulated between collections, one additional
container may be purchased by the householder/tenant from the city. If this
person moves to a location outside the city the cost of the container will be
refunded provided that the container is returned in good condition.
   (B)   Residential pick-up producers.
      (1)   Accumulations of garbage shall be placed in roll-a-waste
containers. Roll-a-waste containers shall be placed at the curbside no earlier
than 7:00 p.m. on the evening prior to the designated collection day and shall
be removed from the curbside by 7:00 p.m. on the designated collection day. A
householder who fails to remove a container from the curbside within 24 hours
after the designated collection day shall be in violation of this chapter.
Containers shall be stored at the sides or back of houses when not at curbside
for collection.
      (2)   Household garbage shall be placed in roll-a-waste containers so
that the contents shall not extend above the rim of the container which shall
be closed at all times except when filling and emptying. All items in roll-a-
waste containers shall be mashed or broken down to their smallest size before
depositing in the container. Garbage placed at the curbside which are not
inside an approved receptacle when sanitation crews arrive for collection will
not be collected and shall be in violation of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful to place discarded tires, hazardous waste, large metal objects, major
appliances, electronics, furniture or the similar objects in or beside trash
container.
      (3)   Roll-a-waste containers or recycling bins shall not be placed on
sidewalks, entrance walkways, driveways, streets or on the property of another
or in such a manner to obstruct the free flow of traffic or drainage along any
public street.
      (4)   Backyard garbage service to disabled persons with physical
handicaps may, at the discretion of the Public Works Director, be provided when
there is no one in the residence or employed by the household physically
capable of moving the roll-a-waste container from the backyard to the curbside.
A doctor’s statement of disability must be furnished to substantiate existence
of disability. Placement of container for easy access by sanitation workers
will be determined by the Public Works Director or his designee.
      (5)   Roll-a-waste containers, recycling bins and the surrounding area
shall be kept in a sanitary condition by the householder/tenant. Repair or
replacement of roll-a-waste containers or recycling bins under normal wear and
tear or as a result of negligence of city collection forces shall be the
responsibility of the city. Any repairs or replacement due to the negligence of
the property owner or tenant shall be the responsibility of the party.
   (C)   Use and maintenance. The containers may not be used for purposes other
than the storage of garbage and recyclables which are noncombustible. The
deposits of poisons, acids, caustics, explosives, soils, construction
materials, furniture or any other materials which could cause damage to these
containers or mechanical lifting devices of collection vehicles is prohibited.
Writing, marking, cutting, painting or any abusive treatment of the containers
is prohibited.
   (D)   Receptacles and containers; commercial and business establishments.
      (1)   Any commercial establishment, manufacturer, wholesale or retail
business, hospital, clinic, church, school, apartment building or complex or
any other location where the use of the containers may be considered to be
advantageous to the general welfare of the city for reasons of health, economy
or appearance, may be required to use a commercial container individually or
jointly depending on quantity of refuse and garbage normally accumulated. The
Public Works Director shall determine the need for and the size and number of
any containers, based on the quantity of refuse and the schedule of collection.
      (2)   Any commercial establishment or retail business whose pickup
schedule, location or volume of refuse and garbage does not, as determined by
the Public Works Director, justify economical and practical service by self
loading equipment may be required to accept residential type pickup service and
shall not be required to use a commercial container, but instead be furnished
with a roll-a-waste container in like manner as is required for use by
households. The service shall be subject to the requirements and provisions
applicable to household garbage collection service as set forth.
      (3)   Commercial or bulk containers shall be furnished by the user/
customer and will be serviced by the city at and for the fees from time to time
set forth by the city. Size of containers and scheduling of pickup service
shall be determined by the Public Works Director.
      (4)   Users of commercial or bulk containers shall construct an adequate
pad on which to place the required container, located according to city
specifications, and shall maintain adequate means for access thereto. Bulk
containers shall not be placed on the sidewalk, grass plot, curb, gutter line
or street. Bulk containers will not be serviced if ready access is not
available to the container for use by sanitation trucks.
      (5)   All boxes, cartons and containers shall be broken down to their
smallest possible dimensions before being deposited in bulk containers.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful to set garbage, refuse, trash or other
material outside of bulk containers. The materials shall not be collected by
city forces.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful to burn garbage, refuse, trash or other
material in bulk containers.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful to place discarded tires, hazardous waste,
large metal objects, major appliances, furniture or the similar objects in or
beside bulk container. Any person, corporation or commercial establishment
engaged in manufacturing, recapping or assembling tires must arrange for
removal from their premises all discarded tires as no city pick-up service will
be provided for the disposition.
      (9)   Privately-owned commercial or bulk containers shall be kept in
proper operating condition by the owner. The user thereof shall maintain the
containers in a sanitary condition and keep the lids closed at all times except
when filling and emptying. The containers which are damaged, destroyed or
burned through abuse, neglect or improper use by the users, shall be replaced
by the owner at the expense of the users thereof. Bulk containers shall be
replaced by the owner when the same are damaged and unusable due to normal and
reasonable usage and age.
      (10)   The city shall not be responsible for the removal of garbage or
trash from any business, commercial establishment, apartment complex or other
establishment required to obtain a bulk container due to volume of garbage or
refuse which fails to obtain or rent the container for use as required herein.
      (11)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a commercial or
bulk container to secure or lock the container when, at the determination of
the Public Works Director, refuse or garbage is being deposited unlawfully by
those other than the owner.
   (E)   Bulk containers; apartment buildings and complexes.
      (1)   The owners of multiple residential units containing more than six
dwellings shall be required to use bulk containers of sufficient size and
quantity to accommodate the maximum amount of waste generated by the
residential complex. Where bulk containers are utilized, it shall be the joint
responsibility of the person or agency responsible for the apartment building
or complex and occupants thereof, to see that all garbage and refuse deriving
therefrom is placed in the bulk container at its specified location as
determined by the city, with due regard for loading conditions and convenience.
      (2)   Any failure to place the garbage or refuse in the bulk container,
which results in littering the premises, shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
      (3)   Where apartment buildings and complexes are receiving garbage and
refuse service by self-loading bulk containers, the service shall be subject to
the requirements and provisions applicable to commercial and business
establishment garbage and refuse service as set forth.
      (4)   Any solid waste item that, at the determination of the city, has a
high probability of inflicting damage to the collection equipment used by the
city shall be excluded from the collection process.
   (F)   Removal; damage prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any roll-a-waste
container from its designated premises or to maliciously damage any roll-a-
waste container.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful:
         (a)   For any unauthorized person to remove, disarrange or interfere
with a roll-a-waste container, recycling bin or bulk container used for the
collection of refuse, garbage, recyclables or the contents of any container;
         (b)   For any person to break or damage any roll-a-waste container,
recycling bin or bulk container used for garbage, recyclable or refuse
collection;
         (c)   To fail to keep all refuse receptacles clean, sanitary tightly
covered and in good repair;
         (d)   To place hot ashes, or any burning matter in any roll-a-waste
container or bulk container; and/or
         (e)   To place in a roll-a-waste container or bulk container loose
construction and/or demolition waste, industrial refuse, special refuse and
animal or agricultural waste for collection by the sanitation division.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord. 019-01-020, passed 1-15-19) Penalty,
see §
51.99
§ 51.05 COLLECTION; DISTRICTS AND HOURS.
   (A)   (1)   All garbage, refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected,
conveyed and disposed of by the city under the direction and supervision of the
Public Works Director as designee of the city. The Public Works Director shall
have the authority to make regulations concerning the days of collection, type
and location of waste containers and other matters pertaining to the
collection, conveyance and disposal as he shall find necessary, and to change
and modify the same. Regulations are not contrary to the provisions hereof.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with the regulations so promulgated and approved.
      (3)   No person, other than those under the direction of the Public Works
Director, shall haul away or remove any refuse, garbage set out for collection
as provided for in this chapter, except by written consent of the Public Works
Director.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the city
employees who are engaged in the collection of garbage and waste matter. It
shall be unlawful for any person to require or request any city employee
engaged in the collection of garbage and waste matter to do more than return
the empty container to the designated point of pickup on the property.
   (B)   The city shall collect residential garbage and brown goods at the
curbside based upon a once a week schedule as prepared by the Director of
Public Works. The service shall commence at the time as shall hereinafter be
authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord. 019-01-020, passed 1-15-19; Am. Ord.
20-04-002, passed 4-21-20) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT; BROWN GOODS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or place any
garbage, within the meaning of this chapter, in any alley, street, stream or
other public place within the city, nor shall any person deposit or place any
garbage upon private property, whether owned by the person or not, within the
limits of the city unless the same shall be enclosed in a suitable container.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discard, place, drop, throw
or leave any paper, bottle, can, rubbish or any other waste matter, as defined
in this chapter, upon any street, sidewalk or right-of-way of the city, or upon
any private property within the limits of the city unless the same is deposited
in a suitable container normally provided therefor.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any type of refuse
that originates outside the city limits into the city for collection by city
forces. No refuse generated outside the corporate limits of the city may be
placed in a bulk container or roll-a-waste container in the city.
      (4)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to dump, discard or otherwise cause or
allow garbage, trash, asphalt, concrete or other refuse to be placed on any
private or public property located within the city limits not designated as a
dumping site by the zoning ordinance of the city. If any such refuse is so
placed, the owner of the offending property is responsible for its complete
removal within 30 days of receiving written notice by the Code Enforcement
Officer to do so. Failure within 30 days following notice to do so shall
subject the owner to a fine not to exceed $500 for the first offense. For a
continuing violation of this section, each additional 30-day increment of
failure to completely remove said refuse shall subject the property owner to
fines in additional increments of $500 for each 30-day increment of failure to
completely remove said refuse.
         (b)   The city may provide by mutual agreement a suspension of the
provisions of this division (A)(4) when there is a significant effort by a
private property owner to clear an offending property and the best interest of
the city would be served by providing the private property owner reasonable
time in clearing an offending property of several acres.
   (B)   “Brown goods” shall include furniture, mattresses, carpeting, textile
material and similar household items.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord. 06-01-99, passed 5-15-99; Am. Ord. 16-
01-001, passed 1-19-16; Am. Ord. 019-01-020, passed 1-15-19) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 YARD TRASH; TRIMMINGS AND PRUNINGS.
   (A)   Waste matter shall be placed in any convenient containers that will
prevent scattering. Leaves to be picked up shall not be enclosed in disposable
containers such as plastic bags, securely tied, and placed at a location near
the street to facilitate the collection process.
   (B)   Normal seasonal yard trimmings and pruning in reasonable quantities
will be removed by the city. Abnormal quantities of trimmings or any lot
clearing, tree removals or stumps shall be transported to the sanitary landfill
by the owner or contractor. In unusual cases, prior agreement shall be worked
out with the office of the Public Works Director.
   (C)   Shrubbery trimmings, tree trimmings, grass clippings and all other
outdoor vegetation must be separated from the other trash or household
materials placed at the curbside abutting the homeowner’s property line for
collection. Mixed trash and yard debris will not be collected by the city.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord. 21-11-02, passed 11-16-21) Penalty,
see §
51.99
§ 51.08 CONSTRUCTION WASTES.
   Every contractor, carpenter, building, tenant or homeowner who constructs,
repairs or alters a building in the city shall remove all refuse incident to
the construction, repairs or alterations at his own expense and no part thereof
shall be deposited or left on the sidewalks adjacent thereto.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; REVIEW.
   (A)    (1)   Whenever an environmental inspector shall determine that a
violation of the provisions of the chapter has occurred, the environmental
inspector shall issue a first notice of code violation by personal delivery,
mail or posting on the property. The notice shall include the property address,
date, code violation, specified number of days to correct the condition and an
approximate date that a reinspection shall be made.
      (2)   Violations so noted which are not corrected in the specified time
shall be subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   A written notice shall be served upon the owner and/or tenant
requiring compliance with the provisions of this chapter within a specified
period of time unless he initiates an administrative
review. The notice shall be sufficient if served by any method permitted by
Rule 4, S.C. Rules of Civil Procedure, for the service of civil process.
         (b)   If the violation is a nature which requires abatement, the
notice given pursuant to division (a) above shall be addressed to the property
owner and/or tenant and shall contain an estimate of the approximate cost for
the city to undertake the required work and shall notify the owner that the
total cost to the property owner shall be actual costs plus 50% surcharge for
administrative expense.
         (c)   If the addressee(s) of the written notice fails or neglects to
cause correction of the prohibited conditions within the period of time
specified in the notice, then, and in that event, representatives of the city
may enter upon any lands and abate the condition by appropriate action. The
cost of the action, plus the 50% administrative surcharge, shall be billed to
the owner and/or the tenant of the property. In the event the billing shall
remain unpaid for 30 days after mailing the billing to owner, then the cost
shall constitute a lien against the property, collectible in the same manner as
taxes assessed upon the property.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the addressee(s) disagrees with the determination
of noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter, he may, within five days
of receipt of written notice, provide the Public Works Director a written
description of the particulars of disagreement and issues requiring review. A
review panel shall consider the particulars. The panel shall be composed of
three of the following: Code Enforcement Officer, Public Works Director, a
member of the planning staff and/or City Building Inspection Official.
      (2)   The scope of review of the panel shall be limited to a review of
facts bearing on whether the property is or is not in compliance with this
chapter, and the panel shall not have the discretionary authority to waive or
relax the standards set forth in this section. Within ten days after receipt of
the application for review, the panel shall cause to be served on the addressee
a report of findings of compliance or noncompliance. In the event of a finding
of noncompliance by the review panel, the report shall specify a number of
days, not less than three, from receipt of report within which the prohibited
condition must be brought into compliance.
      (3)   Failure to bring the condition into compliance in the specified
time shall result in abatement by the city as provided above and shall be
subject to general penalties as described in §
51.99.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94)
§ 51.10 FEES.
   Each and every commercial, industrial, residential, institutional or
otherwise, user of containers mechanically emptied on a regular basis by the
Sanitation Department of the city shall be billed monthly, along with the
billing for utility service.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any section of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $1,000 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. Each day of
noncompliance with any provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to any fine for each offense under the provisions of the
chapter, the Court may also order restitution to the city for costs incurred in
abating violating conditions. The Court, in addition to any monetary fine, may
impose litter gathering labor or other public services as the Court may order,
under supervision of the Court. In lieu of any monetary fine, the Court may
order litter gathering labor not to exceed one hour for each $5 of fine
imposed, all as set forth in S.C. Code § 16-11-700, as amended.
(Ord. 94-07-01, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 19-10-01,
passed 10-15-19)
CHAPTER 52: GAS SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Rates and service charges
   
52.02   Wholesale cost of gas
§ 52.01 RATES AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   Rates and service charges are included in the annual budget.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 52.02 WHOLESALE COST OF GAS.
   Wholesale cost of gas, or WCG, is the city’s purchased gas cost from South
Carolina Pipeline Corporation under Rate Schedule DS-1 adjusted for losses,
direct-billed take-or-pay surcharges, and cumulative over-collections or under-
collections. The WCG factor will be calculated to the nearest thousandth of a
cent per CCF.
(Ord. 89-11-0, passed 11-14-89)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Bills; delinquent payment
   
53.02   Deposits
   
53.03   Submetering
   
53.04   Single meters; multiple dwelling units
   
53.05   Temporary service
   
53.06   Underground service
   
53.07   Whole power cost adjustments
Types of Service; Rates
   
53.20   R, residential service
   
53.21   C-S, small commercial service
   
53.22   C-L, large commercial and industrial service
   
53.23   A-L, customer area light service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 BILLS; DELINQUENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   Bills shall be paid at the City Hall on or before the due date for
that billing cycle. If payment is not made within this period, service shall be
subject to suspension.
   (B)   For all consumers, a charge of 10% shall be added to any bills not
paid on or before the due date.
   (C)   When electric, gas, or water service is discontinued for nonpayment,
full payment of the delinquent account shall be paid before reconnection is
made.
(‘88 Code, § 17.601) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 53.02 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   At the time application for service is made, a utility deposit
shall be required which will be held by the city until service is terminated.
At that time, the deposit will be returned to the consumer, less any
outstanding charges.
      (2)   No interest shall be paid on the deposit.
   (B)   The deposit shall be equal to two months probable service. There shall
be a minimum deposit of $150 for any and all services. For mobile homes, there
shall be a minimum deposit of $150.
(‘88 Code, § 17.602)
§ 53.03 SUBMETERING.
   This rate shall not be permitted for resale, and no meters shall be
installed on individual units beyond the city meter.
(‘88 Code, § 17.604)
§ 53.04 SINGLE METERS; MULTIPLE DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   When more than one dwelling unit is served by a single meter, each and
every dwelling unit shall comply with the requirements of the schedule
involved. The monthly bill shall be computed by dividing the total kilowatt
hours metered during the billing period by the number of dwellings units, then
calculating a bill per dwelling unit from the rate.
   (B)   The total bill shall be the bill per dwelling unit multiplied by the
number of dwelling units.
(‘88 Code, § 17.605)
§ 53.05 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   At the discretion of the city, a charge for temporary service may be charged
based on current fees and schedules.
(‘88 Code, § 17.606) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 53.06 UNDERGROUND SERVICE.
   (A)   Residential services.
      (1)   Underground service may be available for residential purposes on
request where service has not been previously supplied. The charge will be the
current costs of labor and material per foot for installation of underground
line from an overhead transformer for the purpose of connecting electric
service to a residential premise.
      (2)   Residential underground service may be available where current
overhead service already exists. The charge will be the current costs of labor
and material per foot for installation of underground line from an overhead
transformer for the purpose of connecting electric service to a residential
premise.
      (3)   Underground may be available for security light at the current cost
per foot of material and labor.
   (B)   Small commercial service (200 amps or less). Underground commercial
service may be available to customer. The charge will be the current costs of
labor and material per foot for installation of underground line from an
overhead transformer for the purpose of connecting electric service to premise.
   (C)   Large commercial service (200 amps or larger). The city will not
provide secondary wire for large commercial services. The city will only
provide transformer, primary wire, and metering equipment. Also, the city will
require the customer to provide pad for underground large commercial
transformer. The city will provide the spec for pad.
(‘88 Code, § 17.607) (Am. Ord. 11-09-01, passed 9-20-11)
§ 53.07 WHOLE POWER COST ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Charges for electric service will be adjusted by a credit or charge
when the average cost of power from Carolina Power and Light Company and
Southeastern Power Administration differs from the average cost incorporated
into basic electric rates.
   (B)   An annualized WPCA factor per kWh will be calculated each year for
billings from May through the following April. The annualized factor will be
reviewed and adjusted in August, November and February to reconcile estimated
collections during the year with power costs incurred, including losses. WPCA
factors will be applicable to all metered kWh billed under the city’s electric
service schedules.
(Ord. 89-10-0, passed 11-14-89)
TYPES OF SERVICE; RATES
§ 53.20 R, RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   The R rate shall be available only to residential consumers for
lighting, cooking, heating, refrigeration and incidental power supplied to the
individual residence or apartment.
      (2)   Underground service shall be available for residential purposes on
request where service has not previously been supplied. Any extension beyond
150 feet shall be done at a charge of $1.25 per foot.
      (3)   Old services may be changed to underground services on request, by
payment of $175.
(‘88 Code, § 17.611)
   (B)   General service; regulations made part of schedule. The applicable
provisions of §§
53.01 through
53.07 shall be made a part of this schedule. (‘88 Code, § 17.612)
   (C)   Type of service. The city shall furnish 60 cycle service through one
meter, at one delivery point, at the following approximate voltage: single
phase, 120/240 volts. (‘88 Code, § 17.613)
   (D)   Rates. All fees, rates, and charges are adopted by City Council each
fiscal year and are subject to change from time to time as necessary.
(‘88 Code, § 17.614) (Ord. 10-87, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
   (E)   Payment. Payment under this schedule shall be in conformance with §§
53.01 through
53.07. (‘88 Code, § 17.615)
§ 53.21 C-S, SMALL COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   The C-S rates shall be available only to commercial or industrial
consumers for lighting, cooking, heating, refrigeration and other power service
supplied to the individual store or commercial establishment purchasing all of
its power requirements from the city and having a demand less than 30 kW. When
the demand exceeds 30 kW, or a previous past demand has exceeded 30 kW, §
53.22 shall apply.
      (2)   Underground service shall be available for commercial purposes at a
rate of $125 for the first 150 feet, or a portion thereof. Any extension beyond
150 feet shall be at an additional charge of $1 per foot.
      (3)   Space shall be provided on the property for the installation of
transformers, duct systems and any other facilities necessary for the city to
install the service equipment. Underground or ground level vaults shall be
constructed in conformance with the city’s specifications, should such be
required.
(‘88 Code, § 17.616)
   (B)   General service regulations made part of schedule. The applicable
provisions of §§
53.01 through
53.07 shall be made a part of this schedule.
(‘88 Code, § 17.617)
   (C)   Type of service.
      (1)   The city shall furnish 60 cycle service through one meter at one of
the following voltages:
         (a)   Single phase, 120/240 volts.
         (b)   Three phase, 208/120 volts or three phase, 480/288 volts from a
four-wire wye connected circuit.
      (2)   Prospective consumers should ascertain the available type of
service by inquiry at the City Hall before purchasing equipment.
      (3)   Motors of five horsepower, or less, may be single phase but all
motors shall be of types approved by the city, with minimum starting current
and with controlling devices where necessary.
      (4)   Customers receiving three phase service shall provide three phase
protection. The city shall not be liable for single phasing of any
installation.
(‘88 Code, § 17.618)
   (D)   Rates. All fees, rates, and charges are adopted by City Council each
fiscal year and are subject to change from time to time as necessary.
   (E)   Payment. Payment shall be in conformance with §§
53.01 through
53.07. (‘88 Code, § 17.620)
(Ord. 10-87, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 53.22 C-L, LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability.
      (1)   The C-L rates shall be available only to commercial consumers for
lighting, cooking, heating, refrigeration and other power service supplied to
the individual store, commercial or industrial establishment purchasing all of
its power requirements from the city and having a demand greater than 20 kW.
      (2)   Underground service shall be available for commercial purposes at a
charge of $125 for the first 150 feet or a portion thereof. Any extension
beyond 150 feet shall be an additional charge of $1 per foot.
      (3)   Space shall be provided on the property for the installation of
transformers, duct systems and any other facilities necessary for the city to
install the service equipment. Underground or ground level vaults shall be
constructed in conformance with the city’s specifications.
(‘88 Code, § 17.621)
   (B)   General service regulations made part of schedule. The applicable
provisions of §§
53.01 through
53.07 shall be made a part of this schedule. (‘88 Code, § 17.622)
   (C)   Type of service.
      (1)   The city shall furnish 60 cycle service through one meter at one of
the following voltages:
         (a)   Single phase, 120/240 volts.
         (b)   Three phase, 208/120 volts or three phase, 480/277 volts from a
four-wire wye connected circuit.
         (c)   Three phase, 7.2/12.47, four-wire wye connected circuit.
      (2)   Prospected consumers should ascertain the available type of service
by inquiry at the City Hall before purchasing equipment.
      (3)   Motors of five horsepower or less may be single phase but all
motors shall be of types approved by the city, with minimum starting current
and with controlling devices where necessary.
      (4)   Customers receiving three phase service shall provide three phase
protection. The city will not be liable for single phasing of any installation.
(‘88 Code, § 17.623)
   (D)   Rates. All fees, rates, and charges are adopted by City Council each
fiscal year and are subject to change from time to time as necessary.
   (E)   Billing demand.
      (1)   The billing demand shall be the maximum kW registered for the
billing month on the demand meter during a 15-minute interval but not less than
65% of the first 10,000 kW plus 85% of any additional previously established
maximum demand, but in no event, less than 30 kW.
      (2)   Any large commercial customer whose demand is less than 30 kW per
month for eight consecutive months shall be billed as a small commercial
customer and continue to be so billed, until the time as his demand exceeds 30
kW.
      (3)   Where the power factor of the consumer’s installation is less than
85% the city may correct the kW demand for that month by multiplying by 85 and
dividing by the actual power factor.
(‘88 Code, § 17.625)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 53.23 A-L, CUSTOMER AREA LIGHT SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Security lights shall be available for customers where
practical. An installation fee of $100 will be charged for mobile homes and
rental property. All work orders for security lights shall be made only in the
utility office and a one-year contract shall be signed by the applicant.
Security lights shall not be metered. The prevailing fee shall be charged. (‘88
Code, § 17.626)
   (B)   General service regulations made part of schedule. The applicable
provisions of §§
53.01 through
53.07 shall be made a part of this schedule. (‘88 Code, § 17.627)
   (C)   Type of service
      (1)   The A-L type of service shall be for high-pressure sodium or
incandescent units mounted on wood poles. Service shall include installation,
maintenance and electrical energy. Illumination shall be from dusk to dawn.
      (2)   Initial installation shall include the lighting unit, one pole and
one span of secondary from an existing pole line. Additional spans of
secondary, poles, pole grounds, and the like, shall be paid for by the
consumer, as designated below. The pole shall be located so the city can
service it as to not cause property damage to others or customer.
      (3)   All items of material and equipment used to make the installation
shall remain the property of the city.
(‘88 Code, § 17.628)
   (D)   Rates. The A-L customer area light service rate shall be as follows:
All fees, rates, and charges are adopted by City Council each fiscal year and
are subject to change from time to time as necessary.
   (E)   Payment. Payment under this schedule shall be in conformance with §§
53.01 through
53.07.
(‘88 Code, § 17.630)
   (F)   Customer Attachments. Customer attachments should not be allowed to be
placed on area light poles. Examples of these attachments include, but are not
limited to, basketball back boards and satellite TV dishes.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
CHAPTER 54: GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
Section
   
54.01   Unauthorized connections
   
54.02   Extensions and assessments
   
54.03   Connections required
   
54.04   Service required
   
54.05   Reimbursements
   
54.06   Cross-connections prohibited
   
54.07   Backflow prevention devices
   
54.08   Rates and fees
§ 54.01 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the authority of
the city, to connect any pipe with the pipes of the waterworks or to make any
changes, enlargements, extensions or repairs in any supply pipes of the
waterworks, or to turn on the water on any premises after the same has been cut
off by order of the city or its officers or agents.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful, except in case of fire, or at the direction
of a person legally authorized to so direct, for any person to open any
fireplug and allow the water to escape therefrom.
(‘88 Code, § 17.404)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to connect to the sanitary system of the city
without official permission and the payment of a tap fee as required herein.
(‘88 Code, § 17.405)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.02 EXTENSIONS AND ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Upon written request of any property owner, the city may provide water
and sewer service in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council is hereby authorized to accept or reject any requests
for extension of water and sewer service.
§ 54.03 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All residential, commercial and industrial buildings, wherein potable water
is used, shall be connected to the city water and sewerage systems, provided
such systems are available in the environs of such buildings.
§ 54.04 SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Inside city limits.  
      (1)   All utilities of the city shall be furnished to any applicant
situated within the city limits, if the requested utility service is available.
If the requested service is not available at the time of the request, it shall
be furnished at such time as it is available; provided, however, an applicant
may obtain immediate service by paying all costs incurred in the extension of
necessary facilities and conveying title to same to the city. The construction
and installation of such facilities shall be under the direction and
supervision of the city and subject to standards and specifications required by
the city.
      (2)   If sanitary sewerage is not available from the city, a certificate
from the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC),
approving a septic tank for the property, shall be obtained and submitted with
the request for water service to the property.
      (3)   Services for all utilities furnished pursuant to this section shall
be charged to the customer, in accordance with the rates set forth in the
applicable current rate schedule for the service furnished.
   (B)   Outside city limits. Utility services outside the corporate limits
shall be furnished, subject to the following:
      (1)   Any available city utility service may be furnished, upon request,
to any applicant situated outside the corporate limits. To receive the
requested service, the owner of the property to which service is requested
shall agree to annex the property to the city, if it is contiguous to the
incorporated area of the city, but if it is not contiguous at the time, the
owner shall agree to annex the property to the city at such time it may become
contiguous.
      (2)   If the requested utility service is not available, the owner of the
property to which service is requested shall agree to annex the property to the
city, if it is contiguous to the incorporated area of the city, but if it is
not contiguous at the time, the owner shall agree to annex the property to the
city at such time it may become contiguous. All utility facilities shall be
constructed at the owner’s expense. All such construction shall comply with
city specifications and shall be subject to supervision by the city. Title to
all facilities and proper easements shall be conveyed to the city. All
connection and utility charges shall be in accordance with the applicable
current in-city rate schedule for the service furnished.
§ 54.05 REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   In the event an owner develops an area bearing the expense of water
and sewer mains and facilities, conveys them to the city and agrees to
annexation into the city, the city may reimburse said owner 50% of the cost of
construction of the water and sewer facilities with the exception of
engineering, inspection or service lines or taps.
   (B)   (1)   To receive the reimbursement, the owner must submit a written
request for reimbursement to the City Administrator including a project
description, drawings, and budget. All requests are subject to the approval of
the City Administrator. He/she shall review the request to determine the
economic feasibility of the project.
      (2)   If approved, reimbursement payments will be made annually on a
prorated basis. The amount reimbursed will be determined from the total actual
construction costs for the project divided by the number of planned services
times the number of certificates of occupancy issued during any calendar year
beginning on the date of transfer of title of utility facilities to the city
and ending on December 31st of the fifth year following the date of transfer of
title of facilities. Provided the invoice is approved for reimbursement, the
City shall provide payment within 60 days.
(Ord. 02-06-01, passed 6-18-02)
§ 54.06 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No cross connections with any other water system shall be permitted.
(‘88 Code, § 17.413) (Ord. 86-04-0, passed 7-8-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.07 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   New services.
      (1)   All residential three-quarter-inch and one-inch services will have
a residential dual check valve installed at the water meter. There will be no
connection made between the meter and device. The residential dual check valve
will be installed by the city with the cost of installation included in the tap
fee.
      (2)   New services to commercial establishments will be protected from
backflow as follows:
         (a)   Three-fourths-inch and one-inch services to establishments in
which water use is similar to residential water use will have a residential
dual check valve installed at the water meter by the city.
         (b)   All services to commercial establishments using water in
equipment or processes having a low or intermediate hazard will install an
approved double check valve assembly. The double check valve assembly will be
installed by the customer at a location in the service line approved by the
City Utilities Department.
         (c)   All services to commercial establishments using water in
equipment or processes having a high degree of hazard will install an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. The reduced pressure principle
backflow preventer will be installed by the customer at a location in the
service line approved by the City Utilities Department. In some instances, a
double check valve assembly can be used on the service line if the equipment or
process having the high degree of hazard is isolated by using a reduced
pressure principle backflow preventer or by using an air gap.
         (d)   All applications for water service will be reviewed to determine
the level of backflow prevention required before construction begins. All new
construction will be inspected for cross connections before connection to the
city water system. The City Building Official will perform the inspections
inside the city limits and a representative of the City Utilities Department
will conduct the inspections outside the city limits.
   (B)   Existing services.
      (1)   When water services are enlarged or replaced, the service will be
considered to be a new service and the appropriate backflow prevention device
will be installed using the criteria listed for new services.
      (2)   Facilities where cross connections are suspected will be inspected
on a priority basis. When cross connections are found, the customer will be
notified in writing to remove the cross connection or install the proper
backflow prevention device within a period of time specified by the Director of
Utilities. Failure to remove the cross connection or install the proper
backflow prevention device may result in discontinuation of water service.
      (3)   All presently installed backflow prevention devices which are not
listed on the SCDHEC list of approved devices but were approved devices for the
purposes described herein at the time of their installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall be allowed to remain in service so long as in the
opinion of the inspector they will satisfactorily protect the water system.
Whenever the existing device, is moved from the present location or requires
more than minimum maintenance or when the Utilities Department finds that
continued use constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by an
approved backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Testing requirements.
      (1)   Double check valve assemblies and reduced pressure principle
backflow preventers must be tested upon installation and annually thereafter by
an individual certified by SCDHEC to test backflow prevention devices.
      (2)   The test results will be reported on a form mailed to the customer
by the city on an annual basis. The form will include a date by which the form
must be returned.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Compliance with the backflow prevention program is a condition of
service for all customers and compliance is mandatory for continued service.
      (2)   Failure of a customer to comply with city’s installation,
maintenance or testing requirements will result in discontinuation of service
ten days after written notice from the Utilities Department or Building
Inspector.
   (E)   Administrative cost. A fee of $1 per month will be charged to
customers requiring backflow prevention equipment monitoring. The fee will
cover administrative cost of monitoring and will be attached to the base
charge.
(Ord. 89-08-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 54.08 RATES AND FEES.
   Water and sewer rates shall be as follows: All fees, rates, and charges are
adopted by City Council each fiscal year and are subject to change from time to
time as necessary.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
CHAPTER 55: WATER
Section
Drought Response
   
55.01   Policy; purpose and intent
   
55.02   Definitions
   
55.03   Nonessential water use
   
55.04   Drought alert phases
   
55.05   New connections; rates
   
55.06   Rationing
   
55.07   Enforcement
   
55.08   Variances
 
   
55.99   Penalty
DROUGHT RESPONSE
§ 55.01 POLICY; PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To achieve the greatest public benefit from domestic water use,
sanitation fire protection, and to provide water for other purposes in an
equitable manner, the city hereby adopts the following regulations and
restrictions on the delivery and consumption of water.
   (B)   This subchapter is hereby declared to be necessary for the
preservation of public health, safety and welfare and shall take effect upon
its adoption by the city.
   (C)   Whenever, in the judgment of the City Council it becomes necessary to
conserve water in the service area, due to drought or other causes, the Mayor
is authorized to issue a proclamation that existing drought conditions prevent
fulfillment of the usual water use demands. The proclamation shall attempt to
prevent depleting the water supply to the extent that water use for human
consumption, sanitation, fire protection and other essential needs become
endangered. Immediately upon the issuance of a proclamation, regulations and
restrictions set forth herein shall become effective and remain in effect until
the water shortage is terminated and the proclamation rescinded.
   (D)   Water uses, regulated or prohibited under this subchapter, are
considered to be non-essential; continuation of the uses during times of water
shortage are deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the offender(s)
to penalties as provided in §
55.99.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to water customers of
the city.
(‘88 Code, § 17.701)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. Water use integral to the production of
goods and/or services by any establishment having financial profit as their
primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion of waste of the
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water used for personal needs or for household purposes
such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or for cleaning a
residence, business, industry or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES.
      (1)   Moderate drought shall mean when the Palmer Index reaches the -1.50
to -2.99 range and moderate drought conditions have been verified by best
available information and conditions indicate this situation is expected to
persist.
      (2)   Severe drought shall mean when the Palmer Index reaches the -3.00
to -3.99 range and severe drought conditions have been verified by best
available information.
      (3)   Extreme drought shall mean when the Palmer Index reaches or falls
below -4.00 and extreme drought conditions are verified by best available
information.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE COMMITTEE. A committee composed of state and local
representatives created for the purpose of coordinating responses to water
shortages within drought management areas and making recommendations for action
to the South Carolina Water Resources Commission and/or the Governor.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water used specifically for firefighting, maintaining
in stream flow requirements and to satisfy federal, state or local public
health and safety requirements.
   EVEN NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers or rural route numbers
ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 or letters A through M and locations without addresses.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water used by government, public and private
educational institutions, public medians and rights-of-way, churches and their
places of worship, water utilities and other lands, buildings and organizations
within the public domain.
   LANDSCAPE WATER USE. Water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns, shrubs,
flowers, athletic fields, rights of way and medians.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS. Addresses, box numbers or rural route numbers ending
in 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 or letters N through Z.
   PALMER INDEX. A measure of the severity of a drought or a wet spell in an
area. Dry conditions shall be associated with negative values; wet conditions
with positive values and normal conditions shall have a value of zero.
   WATER SHORTAGE. A lack of adequate available water to meet normal demands
due to lower than normal precipitation, reduced stream flows or soil moisture
and/or lowering of the potentiometric surface in wells which causes water
supplies to be less than usual.
(‘88 Code, § 17.702)
§ 55.03 NONESSENTIAL WATER USE.
   Nonessential water use categories may be curtailed during severe or extreme
drought. Examples of nonessential water uses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Residential and institutional.
      (1)   Washing down sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard surfaced areas;
      (2)   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
      (3)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street;
      (4)   Washing any motor bike, motor vehicle, boat, trailer, airplane or
other vehicle in public or private garages or elsewhere;
      (5)   Maintaining fountains, reflection ponds and decorative water bodies
for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except where necessary to support aquatic
life;
      (6)   Filling or maintaining public or private swimming pools; and
      (7)   Sprinkling lawns, plants, trees and other flora on private or
public property, except as otherwise provided under this subchapter.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial.
      (1)   Serving water routinely in restaurants;
      (2)   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational ponds and lakes,
except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
      (3)   Irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds, except as
otherwise provided under this subchapter;
      (4)   Obtaining water from hydrants for construction purposes, fire
drills or for any purpose other than firefighting;
      (5)   Serving customers who have been given a ten-day notice to repair
leaks and have failed to comply; and
      (6)   Expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new irrigated
agricultural land in production or planting or landscaping when required by
site design review process.
(‘88 Code, § 17.703)
§ 55.04 DROUGHT ALERT PHASES.
   (A)   Levels of drought, as set forth in the South Carolina Drought Response
Act of 1985, are classified as moderate, severe and extreme.
   (B)   Proclamations shall coordinate an appropriate response to the level of
drought which exists. Proclamations setting forth responses to the various
drought alert phases shall be based upon drought monitoring data,
recommendations, declarations and/or notifications supplied by the regional
Drought Response Committee or the South Carolina Water Resources Commission.
      (1)   Moderate drought alert phase. When conditions indicate that a
moderate drought condition is present, and is expected to persist, the Water
Resources Commission will activate the Drought Information Center. It will
notify the City Council by certified mail and issue press releases concerning
the drought conditions to the news media.
         (a)   Goal. The goal of this phase is:
            1.   A 15% voluntary water use reduction for agricultural,
commercial, industrial, institutional and electric power generation purposes;
and
            2.   A 30% voluntary water use reduction for residential customers.
         (b)   General responses.
            1.   Issue a public notice of drought conditions of water supply
and demand in a local newspaper of general circulation which shall include a
list of nonessential water uses as provided in §
55.03;
            2.   Institute an increased water supply system maintenance effort
to identify and correct water leaks; and
            3.   Encourage water customers to comply with the listed voluntary
water use restrictions in all categories, while moderate drought conditions
exist.
         (c)   Water use restrictions.
            1.   Agriculture, irrigation and livestock, implement conservation
techniques, explore different water saving methods and use alternative sources;
            2.   Commercial, industrial and institutional, reduce aesthetic,
domestic, landscaping and water-based recreational activities such as swimming
pools, water slides and other related water activities;
            3.   Electric power generation;
            4.   Residential:
               a.   Reduce water use to 75 gallons per person per day, and a
maximum of 300 gallons per household per day; and
               b.   Reduce domestic, landscaping and water-based recreational
activities such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities.
      (2)   Severe drought alert phase. A drought of this severity usually
requires an official declaration and implementation of mandatory water use
restrictions by the S.C. Water Resource Commission. In such cases, the
Commission will notify City Council and issue press releases concerning the
drought conditions to the news media.
         (a)   Goal. The goal of this phase is:
            1.   A 15% water use reduction for agricultural, commercial,
industrial, institutional and electric power generation purposes;
            2.   A 30% water use reduction for residential customers.
         (b)    General responses.
            1.   Issue a public notice of drought conditions of water supply
and demand in a local newspaper of general circulation which shall include a
list of water use curtailment measures; and
            2.   Require water customers to comply with the listed water use
restrictions in all categories while severe drought conditions exist.
         (c)   Water use restrictions.
            1.   Agriculture, irrigation and livestock.
               a.   Implement conservation techniques, explore different water
saving methods and use alternative sources; and
               b.   Restrict irrigation use from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and
prohibit water run-off.
            2.   Commercial, industrial and institutional.
               a.   Prohibit aesthetic water use;
               b.   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary for
maintaining health and safety;
               c.   Limit water-based recreational activities to new facilities
that require filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related
water activities;
               d.   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water run-off in landscape
design and maintenance; and
               e.   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for
odd numbered address and Thursday and Sunday for even numbered addresses.
            3.   Electric power generation;
            4.   Residential.
               a.   Restrict water use to 75 gallons per person per household
per day, and a maximum of 300 gallons per household per day;
               b.   Limit water-based recreational activities to new facilities
that require filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related
water activities;
               c.   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water run-off in landscape
design and maintenance; and
               d.   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for
odd numbered addresses and Thursday and Sunday for even numbered addresses.
      (3)   Extreme drought alert phase. The S.C. Water Resources Commission
will notify City Council by certified mail and issue press releases concerning
the drought conditions to the news media. Water use restrictions imposed during
extreme drought conditions shall be mandatory.
         (a)   Goal. The goal of this phase is:
            1.   A 15% water use reduction for agricultural, commercial,
industrial and electric power generation purposes; and
            2.   A 30% water use reduction for institutional and residential
customers.
         (b)   General responses.
            1.   Issue a public notice of drought conditions of water supply
and demand in a local newspaper of general circulation which shall include a
list of water use curtailment measures; and
            2.   Require water customers to comply with the listed water use
restrictions in all categories while severe drought conditions exist.
         (c)   Water use restrictions.
            1.   Agriculture, irrigation and livestock.
               a.   Implement conservation techniques, explore different water
saving methods and use alternative sources; and
               b.   Restrict irrigation use from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and
prohibit water run-off.
            2.   Commercial and industrial.
               a.   Prohibit aesthetic water use;
               b.   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to
maintain health and safety;
               c.   Prohibit water-based recreational activities that require
filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities;
               d.   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water run-off in landscape
design and maintenance; and
               e.   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for
odd numbered address and Thursday and Sunday for even numbered addresses.
            3.   Electric power generation;
            4.   Institutional.
               a.   Prohibit aesthetic water use;
               b.   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to
maintain health and safety;
               c.   Prohibit water-based recreational activities that require
filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities;
               d.   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water run-off in landscape
design and maintenance; and
               e.   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for
odd numbered address and Thursday and Sunday for even numbered addresses.
            5.   Residential.
               a.   Restrict water use to 55 gallons per person per day, and a
maximum of 220 gallons per household per day;
               b.   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to
maintain health and safety;
               c.   Prohibit water-based recreational activities that require
filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities;
               d.   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water run-off in landscape
design and maintenance; and
               e.   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for
odd numbered address and Thursday and Sunday for even numbered addresses.
(‘88 Code, § 17.704)
§ 55.05 NEW CONNECTIONS; RATES.
   (A)   (1)   Correspondence regarding water availability, pipeline extension
agreements and applications requesting service shall include conditions
relating to water shortages.
      (2)   No applications for new, additional, further expanded or an
increase in size of water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline
extensions, mains or other water service facilities of any kind shall be
allowed, approved or installed, unless the action is in compliance with the
provisions of the subchapter.
(‘88 Code, § 17.705)
   (B)   In the event of an extreme drought related water shortage, the city is
hereby authorized to monitor water use and limit households to 100 gallons per
household member per day. Domestic water use above this limit shall be subject
to a surcharge of $.10 per gallon. Institutional, commercial, industrial and
recreational water users shall be subject to water use surcharges of $100 per
1,000 gallons of water used, if the city deems adequate conservation measures
have not been implemented. (‘88 Code, § 17.706)
§ 55.06 RATIONING.
   In the event a drought threatens the preservation of public health and
safety, the rationing of water is hereby authorized.
(‘88 Code, § 17.707)
§ 55.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall, in addition to duties imposed
by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Management employees of the city, Department of Public Works and Fire
Department are hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter and shall have the authority to issue written notices to appear when
violations of this subchapter occur during any declared moderate, severe or
extreme drought or water shortage.
(‘88 Code, § 17.709)
§ 55.08 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Persons not capable of immediate water use reduction or curtailment,
because of equipment damage or other extreme circumstances, shall commence
gradual reduction of water use within 24 hours of the declaration of water use
curtailment/reduction and shall apply for a variance from curtailment.
   (B)   Persons requesting exemption from the provisions of this subchapter
shall file a petition for variance with the city within ten days after the
curtailment becomes effective.
   (C)   When the provisions of this subchapter have been invoked by the city
by an action independent of the S.C. Water Resources Commission or invoked by
the city acting at the direction of the Water Resources Commission, persons
requesting exemption from the provision of this subchapter shall file a
petition for variance with the city within ten days of the effective date of
water use curtailment or reduction. The city shall respond to requests for
variances within five days of receipt of information or within 20 days of
declaration of the curtailment, whichever comes first.
   (D)   Petitions shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner(s);
      (2)   Purpose of water use;
      (3)   Specific provision from which relief is requested;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration adversely
affects the petitioner;
      (5)   Description of the relief desired;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Economic value of the water use;
      (8)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner complies
with this subchapter;
      (9)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
      (10)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from which
variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
      (11)   Other pertinent information, as requested.
   (E)   In order for a variance to be granted, petitioner shall show one or
more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Compliance cannot be technically accomplished during the duration
of the water shortage; and
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (F)   The City Administrator may, in writing, grant temporary variances for
existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this subchapter, if it is
determined that failure to grant the variances would cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting health, sanitation or fire protection for the
public or the petitioner and if one or more of the aforementioned conditions is
met. The City Council shall ratify or revoke any variance at its next scheduled
meeting. Any variance so ratified may be revoked by later action of the
Council.
   (G)   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of
this subchapter occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
   (H)   Variances granted by the City Administrator shall be subject to the
following conditions, unless waived or modified by the City Council:
      (1)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      (2)   Variances granted shall expire when the water shortage no longer
exists, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
(‘88 Code, § 17.710)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise stated herein, violators of any provision of §§
55.01 through
55.08 shall be penalized as follows:
      (1)   A first offense shall be an infraction with a fine of $50.
      (2)   A second offense shall be an infraction with a fine of $100.
      (3)   A third and subsequent offense within the same drought period shall
be a misdemeanor with a fine of $200.
      (4)   The aforementioned fines and penalties may be in lieu of, or in
addition to, any other penalty provided by law.
   (B)   After issuing one warning by certified mail, the water service of any
person or customer may be disconnected whenever it is determined that the
person has failed to comply with the provisions of this subchapter. Services
disconnected under the circumstances shall be restored only upon payment of a
reconnection charge, hereby established at $25, and any other costs incurred by
the city in discontinuing service. In addition, suitable assurances shall be
given to the city that the same action shall not be repeated during the drought
or water shortage.
(‘88 Code, § 17.708)
CHAPTER 56: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
56.01   Definitions
   
56.02   Connection requirements
   
56.03   Rates and charges
   
56.04   Tampering prohibited
Use Regulations
   
56.15   Tests and analyses
   
56.16   Character and concentration of wastes
   
56.17   Measurement of flow volume
   
56.18   Storm water surface drainage; process and cooling waters
   
56.19   Prohibited discharge standards; special agreements
   
56.20   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
56.21   Local limits
   
56.22   City's right of revision
   
56.23   Dilution
Industrial Wastes
   
56.35   Industrial wastewater discharge permits and general permits
   
56.36   Permit issuance
   
56.37   Characteristics of waters or wastes; flow
   
56.38   Preliminary treatment or handling
   
56.39   Control of prohibited wastes
   
56.40   Accidental discharge; treatment bypasses
   
56.41   Noncompliance; reporting
   
56.42   Reporting requirements
   
56.43   Records retention
   
56.44   Confidential information
   
56.45   Maximum restrictions
   
56.46   Discharges; disrupted service
   
56.47   Septage wastes
   
56.48   Grease traps
Administration and Enforcement
   
56.60   Permit conditions
   
56.61   Pretreatment program surveillance
   
56.62   Inspections; authority
   
56.63   Notification of violations; nuisances
   
56.64   Compliance; schedules and orders
   
56.65   Show cause hearings
   
56.66   Cease and desist orders
   
56.67   Emergency suspensions
   
56.68   Termination of discharge
   
56.69   Judicial remedies; injunctive relief
   
56.70   Publication and severance
 
   
56.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Terms not otherwise defined in this section shall be as adopted in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and as in the Wastewater
Treatment Plant Design Manual of Practice published by the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The South Carolina Department of Health and
Environmental Control (SCDHEC).
   AUTHORIZED or DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit or
general permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been
assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)    The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3), above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter or ppm).
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
56.19(A) and (B) [SC R.61-9.403.5(a)(1) and (b)]. BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and (c)
of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) that apply to a specific
category of users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-
471.
   CITY. The City of Bennettsville, the City Administrator, his designee or
other designated representative of City Council, who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter.
   CLEAN WATER ACT or ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33
USC 1251 et seq., Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-500, or as they may be
amended.
   COLOR. The "true color" due to substances in solution which cause any
variation in the hue of the receiving stream and which is expressed, in parts
per million.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Bennettsville.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Liquid wastes from non-commercial preparation, cooking and
handling of food, or containing human excrement and similar matter from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities
and institutions.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a NEW SOURCE.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GARBAGE, PROPERLY SHREDDED. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food which has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers. No particle shall be greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The City Administrator, City Attorney, Director of
Utilities and the Wastewater Treatment Superintendent or duly appointed
deputies, agents or representatives thereof.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any
nondomestic source.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater
treatment processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit or any applicable state or federal
regulations or which results in a decrease of removal efficiency. The term
includes the prevention of the use or disposal of sewage sludge and other
wastewater treatment by-products.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MAY. The act is permissive.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c)
of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division.
   NH3 or NITROGEN AS AMMONIA. The initial product in the decomposition of
nitrogenous organic matter as measured by using standard laboratory methods, as
set out in this chapter, expressed in mg/l or ppm.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   NONDOMESTIC WASTES. The liquid wastes from processes employed in
institutional, commercial and industrial processes and operations, as distinct
from sanitary or domestic sewage.
   NPDES PERMIT. The national pollution discharge elimination system permit
issued to the city pursuant to Section 402 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 USC
1342.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution and indicating the acidity or alkalinity of a
substance. A pH value of 7.0 is considered neutral, below 7.0 is acid; above
7.0 is alkaline.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local
limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
56.19.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1292), which is owned by the city.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
   RECEIVING STREAM. A body of water, stream or watercourse receiving or formed
by the discharge from the wastewater treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to receive domestic sewage and industrial
waste, except that of type expressly prohibited by this division, and to which
storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTAGE WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, privies, cesspools and septic tanks.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Any arrangement, devices, facilities, structures, equipment or
works owned by the city for the purpose of transmitting domestic and
nondomestic wastewater.
   SHALL. The act is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Except as provided in divisions (3) and (4)
below, a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   The city, at its discretion may determine that an industrial user
subject to categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical
industrial user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the
industrial user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total
categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard)
and the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to city's finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
56.42(I)(2) [see SC R.61-9.403.12(q)], together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may at any
time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in SC R.61-9.403.8(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
56.19. A SLUG DISCHARGE is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended matter, settleable matter and dissolved
matter, both volatile and nonvolatile and as further defined in Standard
Methods.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS, SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. The total suspended matter
that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water-carried industrial and
domestic wastes from dwellings, residences, commercial, buildings, institutions
and industrial establishments, whether treated or untreated, together with any
ground, surface and storm water that may be present which is discharged into or
permitted to enter the city's wastewater treatment systems.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement, devices,
facilities, structures, equipment or works owned by the city for the purpose of
disposal, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of industrial and
domestic wastes, including the wastewater treatment site or land that is used
for the ultimate disposal of residues from the treatment.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. The entire sewer system and the entire
wastewater treatment plant(s).
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.02 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Use of public sewers.
      (1)   Owners of all newly constructed houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the authority's boundaries and abutting on any street, alley or right-
of-way in which there is a public sanitary sewer of the authority or a
subdistrict, shall install at their expense suitable service lines to connect
any sanitary facilities, directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this regulation within 90 days after the date of
official notice to do so, provided the public sewer is within 300 feet of the
property line and access is available. Any sewer connection to a sewer line
owned by the authority shall be made at an existing manhole or a manhole
constructed for that connection at the owner's expense and in accordance with
the authority's regulation and specifications.
      (2)   Connection of sewer service to adjacent unincorporated areas and or
areas outside the city limits is outlined in this code.
   (B)   General prohibitions.
      (1)   The authority will prohibit privies, cesspools and septic tanks in
sewer service areas when owners of houses, buildings or properties used for
human occupancy, employment recreation or other purposes is situated within the
authority's boundaries and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in
which there is a public sanitary sewer of the authority.
      (2)   The discharge of septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow to any
drain, ditch, stream or well penetrating water bearing formation is strictly
prohibited.
      (3)   The discharge of sanitary wastewater, regardless of source, into
the storm sewer system is strictly prohibited, without exception.
   (C)   Connection of building sewer to public sewer.
      (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means
approved by the authority and discharged to the building sewer.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of any applicable building and plumbing codes and
other applicable rules and regulations of the authority. All connections shall
be made gastight and watertight. Any sewer connection to a sewer owned by the
authority shall be made at an existing manhole or one built for that connection
at the expense of the user. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the authority before installation.
   (D)   Sewer material. All sewers, including house sewers, to be connected
with or to discharge into the wastewater treatment system of the authority
shall be constructed of one of the following:
      (1)   Vitrified clay pipe complying with ASTM C200 and with compression
type, flexible joint conforming to ASTM C425;
      (2)   Cast iron pipe with a mechanical or push-on joint as described in
ANSI A21.11;
      (3)   ABS (acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene) pipe and fittings conforming
to ASTM D2661;
      (4)   PVC (polyvinyl chloride) pipe and fittings conforming to minimum
requirements of ASTM D3034, heavy wall, joint quality to conform with ASTM
C425; or
      (5)   Other materials specifically approved in writing by the city.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   User charge provision; surcharges. All sewer users shall participate
in the user charge provision as applicable when the concentrations of BOD, TSS
or NH3 in the nondomestic wastewater discharged to the city's sanitary shall be
imposed upon the permitted industrial user's wastewater flow when the excess is
calculated using the industrial plant water flow as specified in §
56.17 and the difference between the actual BOD, TSS or NH3 concentration and
the permissible limits of 250 ppm BOD, 240 ppm TSS, or 25 ppm NH3. The
surcharge shall reflect the projected cost of creating the excess pounds of
nondomcsuc wastewater including necessary costs of adrninistration of the
wastewater treatment works, pretreatment and sampling programs and this
division.
   (B)   Amount.
      (1)   A surcharge of $60, per 1,000 of BOD, shall be made to cover the
fixed charges and amortization costs of additional plant capacity as herein
before described.
      (2)   A surcharge of $90, per 1,000 of TSS, shall be made to cover the
fixed charges and amortization costs of additional plant capacity as herein
before described.
      (3)   A surcharge of $30, per 1,000 of NH3, shall be made to cover the
fixed charges and amortization costs of additional plant capacity as herein
before described.
      (4)   All sewer users located outside the city limits shall pay a capital
recoupment fee equal to 25% of their total surcharges, in addition to those
surcharges.
      (5)   All wastewater that exceeds the limits set forth in the nondomestic
user's pretreatment permit shall be surcharged for BOD, TSS and NH3 at twice
the rates listed in this section. This will be in addition to the above
surcharges and any penalties or fines assessed by the city for noncompliance
with this chapter.
   (C)   Pretreatment charges and fees. Each industrial user shall pay his
proportionate share of the cost of administering the pretreatment and sampling
programs and this division. The city may adopt reasonable fees for
reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the city's pretreatment
program, which may include:
      (1)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the
cost of processing such applications;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures
including the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and
reviewing monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge
procedures and construction;
      (4)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (5)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in
division (C)(2) above) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the
control authority to address industrial user noncompliance; and
      (6)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the city.
   (D)   Billings; penalty for late payment.
      (1)   The combined surcharge as set forth herein shall be billed and
payable monthly on a separate bill rendered to the proper person by the city's
Utility Department. Failure to pay the bill within 15 days shall cause the bill
to become delinquent.
      (2)   After five days of delinquency, the city, acting through its duly
authorized officers, shall disconnect the water connection serving the
premises, and the water connection shall not be turned on again until the bill
is paid.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.04 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or materials
belonging to the city and used for the purpose of making measurements, tests or
examinations and left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the
sewer. This protection against damage shall also apply to any part of the sewer
system and wastewater treatment plant(s) and any equipment, materials or
supplies used in the operation and maintenance of the facilities.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest and prosecution.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 56.15 TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with procedures established by SCDHEC and the techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR Part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136 sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by SCDHEC and
on the basis of recommendations from the state. All laboratory analyses shall
be performed in a state certified laboratory. Sampling techniques must meet
proper chain-of-custody procedures.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.16 CHARACTER AND CONCENTRATION OF WASTES.
   (A)   Monitoring. The nondomestic wastewater of any person discharging the
wastewater into the public sewer shall be subject to periodic inspection and a
determination of the character and concentration of the wastewater. The
frequency of the monitoring shall be determined by the control authority, based
upon the industry's total wastewater load being discharged to the treatment
system. The inspection and tests shall also be made immediately after any
process change which might affect the quantity or quality of the wastewater
being discharged.
   (B)   Sample collection. Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements
must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report, based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (2) and (3) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the control authority. Where time-proportional composite sampling
or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be representative
of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation)
specified in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab
samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the
analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may
be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil
and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples
for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in
approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as appropriate. In
addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous
limits.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
      (3)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §
56.42(A) and (C) [SC R.61-9.403.12(b) and (d)], a minimum of four grab samples
must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and
volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do
not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
control authority may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by §
56.42(D) [SC R.61-9.403.12(e) and 403.12(h)], the industrial user is required
to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance
by with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (C)   Authority. The determination of the character and concentration of the
nondomestic wastewater by the control authority shall be binding as a basis for
user charges.
   (D)   Cost. Total costs incident to the supervision, monitoring, sampling
and analysis of wastes shall be included in the surcharge billing made to
persons discharging waste into the city's sanitary sewers.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.17 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW VOLUME.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
nondomestic wastewater shall be based upon:
      (1)   Metered water consumption, as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the city. If a person discharging wastewater into the
public sewers produces evidence to the control authority that more than 15% of
the total annual volume of water used for all purposes does not reach the
public sewers, then an estimated percentage of total water consumption to be
used in determining nondomestic wastewater into the public sewers based upon
adequate comparison data between the actual metered wastewater discharged and
metered water consumption for a relevant period of time determined by the
control authority.
      (2)   At the individual discharger's option, other flow measuring
devices, which measure the actual volume of wastewater discharged to the sewer.
The devices shall be accessibly and safely located, and the measuring system,
as specified by the control authority, shall be installed in accordance with
plans approved by the control authority.
      (3)   The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
owner's expense.
      (4)   Individual dischargers that have installed flow measuring devices
to measure the actual volume of wastewater flow, shall, at the owner's expense,
provide the control authority a certificate of calibration of the device(s) by
a city-approved instrumentation service company and at a frequency determined
by the city.
   (B)   Where any person discharging wastewater to the sanitary sewer who
procures all or any part of his water supply from sources other than the city,
the person discharging the wastewater shall install and maintain at his
expense, meters of a type approved by the control authority for the purposes of
determining the proper volume of wastewater discharged to the sewers.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.18 STORM WATER SURFACE DRAINAGE; PROCESS AND COOLING WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, uncontaminated groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage,
to any public sanitary sewer. The waters shall be admitted only to the sewers
as are specifically designated as storm sewers or storm drains. No person shall
maintain or make a connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Unpolluted process and noncontact cooling water may, upon written
application to the city and SCDHEC and approval by the control authority, be
discharged to storm sewers or storm drains.
   (C)   Corrections of violations of this section shall be required with a
reasonable time schedule determined by the control authority. The time schedule
shall be based upon the severity of the violation and its impact upon the
wastewater system.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.19 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS; SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause or allow to be
introduced into the sewer system or the wastewater treatment plant any
wastewater that contains the following:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including but not limited to wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140° F using test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 5.5 or
higher than 9.0, or containing heavy concentrations of salts or having other
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment or personnel of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
bones, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, butcher's offal or any
other solid or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other Interference with the proper operation of the sewerage system
or treatment works;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause Interference
with the POTW;
      (5)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F, or 65°
C, or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting
in Interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees F (40 degrees C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the city in accordance with §
56.47;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or gases which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or may be sufficient to prevent entry into a sewer
for its maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing dyes or other color which cannot
be removed by the wastewater treatment plant processes and which require
specialized chemical treatment;
      (11)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
that they do not comply with regulations or orders issued by the appropriate
authority having control over their use and which will or may cause damage or
hazards to the treatment works or personnel operating the system;
      (12)   Any by-products, sludges, solids, rags, foam, scum, oils or
greases produced from the operation of pretreatment facilities or devices;
      (13)   Any materials which form excessive amounts of scum or foam that
may interfere with the operation of the treatment works or cause undue
additional labor in connection with its operation;
      (14)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of the nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be in any way injurious to, persons,
the sewerage system, the treatment plant or the operation of the wastewater
treatment plant. At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion
hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the sewer system, be more than 5%
nor shall any single reading exceed 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of
the meter, prohibited materials include but are not limited to gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and
sulfides;
      (15)   Any clothing, rags, textile remnants or wastes, cloth, lint,
scraps, and the like, which will not pass through a one-quarter-inch mesh
screen or its equivalent in screening ability;
      (16)   Any waters or wastes containing syspendecL fixed, or total solids
of the-character and quality that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle the materials at the sewage treatment plant;
      (17)   Any garbage which has not been properly shredded;
      (18)   Any substance which may cause the wastewater treatment plant's
effluent or any other products of the treatment plant, such as residues or
sludges, to be unsuitable for reclamation, reuse and disposal, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, or to be classified a hazardous waste under state
and/or federal laws and regulations;
      (19)   Any waters or wastes containing poisonous or toxic substances or
any other materials in amounts exceeding standards promulgated by the
Administrator of the EPA pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, and
chemicals or compounds which are not susceptible to treatment or which may
interfere with the biological processes or efficiency of the treatment system
or cause the treatment system to violate the toxicity limit in its permit, or
create any hazard in the receiving stream at the wastewater treatment plant;
      (20)   Any waters or wastes containing amounts of cadmium, chromium,
copper, lead, nickel, zinc or other heavy metals which exceed categorical
pretreatment standards, interfere with treatment efficiency or sludge disposal
criteria or cause the wastewater treatment plant to exceed its NPDES permit or
violate state stream standards;
      (21)   Any substance which will cause the treatment works to violate its
NPDES permit or its effluent to violate the water quality standards of the
receiving stream;
      (22)   Any wastewater at a flow rate or containing such concentrations or
quantities of any given constituent that exceeds for any time period longer
than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration,
quantities or flow during normal operation and that would cause a treatment
process upset and/or loss of treatment efficiency; and
      (23)   Any wastewater that violates applicable categorical pretreatment
standards, as promulgated by EPA in 40 CFR Parts 403 and 129, or by SCDHEC or
by the city.
   (C)   Conditionally prohibited discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the control authority, that such wastes may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewers, sewage treatment plant processes, equipment, or
receiving waters or which otherwise may create a hazard to life, limb,
property, or constitute a public nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the control authority will give consideration to
such factors as: quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment process,
capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the
sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
         (a)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fats, oils, grease or wax, whether emulsified or not, or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and
150° F, or 0° and 65° C, at the point of discharge into the system;
         (b)   Any liquid wastes having a BOD concentration exceeding 250 mg/
l or ppm;
         (c)   Any liquid wastes having a TSS concentration exceeding 240 mg/
l or ppm;
         (d)   Any liquid wastes having a NH3 concentration exceeding 25 mg/
l or ppm;
   (D)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
   (E)   Special agreement for discharge ofprohibited substances. No statement
contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any special
agreement or arrangement between the city and any person whereby nondomestic
wastewater of unusual strength or character may be admitted into the sanitary
sewers, either before or after approved pretreatment or prehandling, and
specially treated subject to any payments or user charges as may be applicable,
provided the wastewater will not interfere with the treatment process, sludge
disposal options, NPDES permit compliance or cause a violation of water quality
standards.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.20 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at
40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
city may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
divisions (5) and (6) below.
      (2)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the city
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
      (3)   Combined wastestream formula. When wastewater subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard is mixed with wastewater not regulated by the
same standard, the city shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with SC
R.61-9.403.6(f).
      (4)   Net/gross adjustments. The city, at its discretion, may allow a
categorical industrial user to obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical
pretreatment standard in accordance with SC R.61-9.403.15 with the restriction
that the calculated limit shall not exceed the local limit established by the
city for any parameter.
      (5)   Equivalent mass limits. When a categorical pretreatment standard is
expressed only in terms of pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may
request that the city convert the limits to equivalent mass limits. The
determination to convert concentration limits to mass limits is within the
discretion of the city. The city may establish equivalent mass limits only if
the industrial user meets all the conditions set forth in SC R 61-9.403.6(d)
(5).
      (6)   Equivalent concentration limits. The city may convert the mass
limits of the categorical pretreatment standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419, and
455 to concentration limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable
to individual industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the
city.
      (7)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with
the equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
      (8)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
      (9)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating
equivalent mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based
standard shall notify the city within two business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the city of such
anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration limits in
its permit that were based on the original estimate of the long term average
production rate.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.21 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The city is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to SC R.61-
9.403.5(c) and (d). Local limits are developed through the calculation of
maximum allowable headworks loadings (MAHL) for all pollutants of concern as
established in the pretreatment program, which is incorporated herein by
reference, industrial wastewater survey information will be used to develop
industrial user-specific local limits based on the mass-based allocation
method. Any applicable local limits shall be included in the individual SIU or
IU permit or other documents. The local limits apply at the point where the
wastewater is discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic
substances are for total metal unless indicated otherwise. The city may impose
mass limitations in addition to, or in place of, concentration-based
limitations.
   (B)   The city may develop best management practices (BMPs), by ordinance or
in individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits, to implement
local limits and the requirements of §
56.19.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.22 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits or in general permits, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
chapter.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.23 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The city may
impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
INDUSTRIAL WASTES
§ 56.35 INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS AND GENERAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Wastewater analysis. When requested by the control authority, a user
must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater
within 30 days of the request. The control authority is authorized to prepare a
form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this
information.
   (B)   Permit required. All industrial users proposing to connect or
discharge to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
      (1)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit or a
general permit from the control authority, except that a significant industrial
user that has filed a timely application pursuant to division (C) below may
continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
      (2)   The control authority may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits or general permits as necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual
wastewater discharge permit or a general permit shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter and subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions
set out in §§
56.63 through
56.70 and §
56.99. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit
does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and
state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
   (C)   Individual wastewater discharge and general permitting: existing
connections. Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge
permit or a general permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior
to the effective date of this chapter and who wishes to continue such
discharges in the future, shall, within 30 days after said date, apply to the
control authority for an individual wastewater discharge permit or a general
permit in accordance with division (E) below.
   (D)   Individual wastewater discharge and general permitting: new
connections. Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge
permit or a general permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into
the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such
discharge. An application for this individual wastewater discharge permit or
general permit, in accordance with division (E) below, must be filed at least
90 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
   (E)   Individual wastewater discharge and general permit application
contents.
      (1)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge
permit or a general permit must submit a permit application. Users that are
eligible may request a general permit under division (F) below. The control
authority may require users to submit all or some of the following information
as part of a permit application:
         (a)   Identifying information.
            1.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of
the operator and owner;
            2.   Contact information, description of activities, facilities,
and plant production processes on the premises.
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         (c)   Description of operations.
            1.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operations) carried
out by such user. This description should include a schematic process diagram,
which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
            2.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
            3.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
            4.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day);
            5.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
         (d)   Time and duration of discharges;
         (e)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
         (f)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in §
56.20(A)(3) [SC R.61-9.403.6(f)].
         (g)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
control authority, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
            3.   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
            4.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
56.15. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the control authority or the applicable standards to determine
compliance with the standard.
            5.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in §
56.16(B).
         (h)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an
approved monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be
present in the discharge based on §
56.42(D)(2) [SC R.61-9.403.12(e)(2)].
         (i)   Any request to be covered by a general permit based on division
(F) below.
         (j)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the control
authority to evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the user for revision.
   (F)   Wastewater discharge permitting: general permits.
      (1)   At the discretion of the control authority, the control authority
may use general permits to control SIU discharges to the POTW if the following
conditions are met. All facilities to be covered by a general permit must:
         (a)   Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
         (b)   Discharge the same types of wastes;
         (c)   Require the same effluent limitations;
         (d)   Require the same or similar monitoring; and
         (e)   In the opinion of the control authority are more appropriately
controlled under a general permit than under individual wastewater discharge
permits.
      (2)   To be covered by the general permit, the SIU must file a written
request for coverage that identifies its contact information, production
processes, the types of wastes generated, the location for monitoring all
wastes covered by the general permit, any requests in accordance with §
56.42(D)(2) for a monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge, and any other information the POTW
deems appropriate. A monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge is not effective in the general permit
until after the control authority has provided written notice to the SIU that
such a waiver request has been granted in accordance with §
56.42(D)(2).
      (3)   The control authority will retain a copy of the general permit,
documentation to support the POTW's determination that a specific SIU meets the
criteria in divisions (F)(l)(a) through (e) and applicable state regulations,
and a copy of the user's written request for coverage for three years after the
expiration of the general permit.
      (4)   The control authority may not control an SIU through a general
permit where the facility is subject to production-based categorical
pretreatment standards or categorical pretreatment standards expressed as mass
of pollutant discharged per day or for IUs whose limits are based on the
combined wastestream formula (§
56.20(A)(3)) or net/gross calculations (§
56.20(A)(4)).
   (G)   Application signatories and certifications.
      (1)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
56.42(I).
      (2)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the control authority prior
to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      (3)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical
industrial user by the control authority pursuant to §
56.01 (SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER, division (3)) must annually submit the
signed certification statement in §
56.42(I)(2).
   (H)   Permit decisions. The control authority will evaluate the data
furnished by the user and may require additional information. Upon
determination by the control authority that a wastewater discharge permit will
be issued, the limits will be developed and submitted to SCDHEC and shall only
be instituted at such time as SCDHEC approval is received. The control
authority may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.36 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Industrial discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city. Permits may contain conditions as deemed
appropriate by the control authority to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Permit duration and reissuance. An individual wastewater discharge
permit or a general permit shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An individual
wastewater discharge permit or a general permit may be issued for a period less
than five years, at the discretion of the control authority. Each individual
wastewater discharge permit or general permit will indicate a specific date
upon which it will expire. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit will remain in effect
past the expiration date as long as the permittee has filed a timely
application and through no fault of the permittee the POTW has not reissued the
permit.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permit contents. An individual wastewater
discharge permit or a general permit shall include such conditions as are
deemed reasonably necessary by the control authority to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permits and general permits must
contain:
         (a)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit
issuance date, expiration date and effective date;
         (b)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the city in accordance with
division (E) below, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
         (c)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
         (d)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
         (e)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
56.42(D)(2);
         (f)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law;
         (g)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
control authority to be necessary;
         (h)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the control authority (§
56.42(D)(2)) must be included as a condition in the user's permit.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits may
contain, but need not be limited to, the following conditions:
         (a)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
         (b)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         (c)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         (e)    The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
         (g)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit;
         (h)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (D)   Permit modification. The terms and conditions of the wastewater
discharge permit may be subject to modification by the city during the term of
the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in this chapter are
modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in the permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of change.
Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance.
      (1)   The control authority may modify an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
         (b)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
         (c)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
         (d)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to the city's POTW or beneficial sludge use, city personnel, or the
receiving waters;
         (e)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual
wastewater discharge permit;
         (f)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required
reporting;
         (g)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to SC R.61-9.403.13;
         (h)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
         (i)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to
a new owner or operator where requested in accordance with division (E) below.
      (2)   The control authority may modify a general permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
         (b)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
         (c)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
         (d)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to
a new owner or operator where requested in accordance with division (E) below.
   (E)   Wastewater discharge permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are
issued to a specific person for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge
permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user,
different premises or a new or changed operation without the approval of the
city. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and
conditions of the existing permit. Individual wastewater discharge permits or
coverage under general permits may be transferred to a new owner or operator
only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice to the control
authority and the city approves the individual wastewater discharge permit or
the general permit coverage transfer. The notice must include a written
certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility's operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit.
Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit or coverage under the general permit void as of the
date of facility transfer.
   (F)   Individual wastewater discharge permit and general permit revocation.
Any person who violates the conditions of his permit, of this division or of
applicable state and federal regulations is subject to having his permit
revoked. Violations subjecting a user to possible revocation of his permit
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Failure to notify the control authority of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)    Failure to provide prior notification to the control authority of
changed conditions pursuant to §
56.46(B);
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the control authority timely access to the
facility premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or the general permit or this chapter.
   (G)   Individual wastewater discharge permits or coverage under general
permits shall be voidable upon cessation of operations or transfer of business
ownership. All individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits
issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a new individual wastewater
discharge permit or a general permit to that user.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.37 CHARACTERISTICS OF WATERS OR WASTES; FLOW.
   (A)   Any waters or wastes discharged by any person which have the
characteristics prohibited in §
56.19(C) may be admitted into the sanitary sewers conditionally through
issuance of a permit to discharge.
   (B)   Waters or waste discharged by any person, which have an average
working day flow greater than 5,000 gallons may be admitted into the sanitary
sewers. The waters or wastes are discharged at the rates which will not
overload the respective pumping stations, gravity sewers or treatment plant. In
case of hydraulic overloads, the owner may be required to control the rates of
discharge so as to prevent overloads.
   (C)   Where the volume of any waters or waste discharged by any person
exceeds the limits set forth under §
56.19(C), the entire volume of waste shall be understood to come within the
limitations set forth under this section.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.38 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR HANDLING.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities.
      (1)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply
with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
56.19 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or city,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense.
         (a)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment or handling facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the control authority and no construction of the facilities
shall be commenced until approval is obtained in writing. The review of such
plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   A permit to construct any pretreatment facilities must also be
obtained from SCDHEC.
      (2)   The facilities shall be constructed in accordance with a compliance
schedule submitted by the person and approved by the control authority and
within the time limitations as may be specified by EPA, if applicable.
      (3)   The city and SCDHEC may require that any pretreatment facility be
operated and maintained by a certified wastewater treatment operator. The
operator must have a valid operator's certification issued by S.C. ECB at the
level of certification required by SCDHEC for that facility.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the control authority may require users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The control authority may require any person discharging into the
POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An
individual wastewater discharge permit or a general permit may be issued solely
for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the control authority, they are necessary for the proper handling
and control of liquid wastes containing grease, oil, and sand in excessive
amounts. Interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units but may be required for industrial or commercial establishments,
public eating places, hospitals, hotels, abattoirs or other institutions. All
interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the control
authority, in accordance with §
56.48.
      (4)   All interceptors shall be located so as to bo readily accessible
for cleaning and inspection and shall be supplied and properly maintained and
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation, by the owner at his
expense, in accordance with §
56.48.
      (5)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (C)   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans. The control
authority shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug
discharge control plan or other action to control slug discharges. The control
authority may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement
such a plan or take such other action that may be necessary to control slug
discharges. Alternatively, the control authority may develop such a plan for
any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge, as required by §
56.46(C); and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (D)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers may be
required to construct and maintain a suitable control or inspection manhole
either downstream from any treatment, storage or other approved works or, if
pretreatment is not required, at the point where the wastes enter the public
sewers.
   (E)   All new significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
discharge into any parts of the wastewater treatment system shall install a
suitable control and inspection manhole with a primary flow measuring device as
approved by the control authority.
   (F)   The manhole shall be located so as to be readily accessible and shall
be constructed in such a manner as may be approved by the control authority to
facilitate inspection or measuring which may be necessary for proper sampling
or control of the waste discharged.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.39 CONTROL OF PROHIBITED WASTES.
   If wastewater containing any substance described in §
56.19(C) is discharged or proposed to be discharged into the sewer system of
the city, the control authority may take action necessary to:
   (A)   Prohibit the discharge of the wastewater;
   (B)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that in-plant modifications will
reduce or eliminate the discharge of the substances in conformity with this
division;
   (C)   Require pretreatment, including equalization facilities, necessary to
reduce or eliminate the objectionable characteristics or substances so that the
discharge will not violate these rules or regulations;
   (D)   Require the person making, causing or allowing the discharge to pay
any additional cost or expense incurred by the city for handling and treating
excess loads imposed on the treatment system; and
   (E)   Take other remedial action as may be necessary to achieve the purpose
of this division.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.40 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE; TREATMENT BYPASSES.
   (A)   (1)   Each industrial user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastewater regulated by this
division.
      (2)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
or other wastewater regulated by this division shall be provided and maintained
at the owner's cost and expense.
   (B)   A bypass of the user's treatment system is prohibited, and the control
authority may take enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
      (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
      (3)   The user properly notified the control authority or his designee,
described in §
56.41(C).
   (C)   Advance notice of bypass. A user may allow a bypass to occur which
does not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only
if it is for essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of the
treatment system. Users anticipating a bypass shall submit notice to the
control authority at least ten days in advance. The control authority may only
approve the anticipated bypass if the circumstances satisfy those set forth in
§
56.40(B).
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.41 NONCOMPLIANCE; REPORTING.
   (A)   If for any reason a facility does not comply with or will not be able
to comply with any prohibition or limitations of this division, the facility
responsible for the discharge shall immediately notify the control authority so
corrective action may be taken to protect the treatment system.
   (B)   If the sampling performed by a significant industrial user indicates a
violation of his permit, the user must notify the control authority within 24
hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation.
   (C)   Unanticipated bypass. A user shall submit oral notice to the control
authority of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within 24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A
written submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The control authority may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.42 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under SC R.61-9.403.6(b)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the control authority a report which contains the
information listed in division (A)(2), below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the control authority a report which
contains the information listed in division (A)(2), below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         (a)   All information required in §§
56.35(E)(1)(a)1.,
56.35(E)(1)(b),
56.35(E)(1)(c)1. and
56.35(E)(1)(f).
         (b)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The user shall provide the information required in §
56.35(E)(1)(g)1. through 4.
            2.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division.
            3.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in SC R.61-9.403.6(f) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with SC R.61-9.40 CFR 403.6(f) this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted to the city.
            4.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
56.15.
            5.   The control authority may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
            6.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         (c)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative, as defined in §
56.01, and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (d)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortcut schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance
schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in
division (B) below.
         (e)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring
reports must be certified in accordance with division (I) below and signed by
an authorized representative, as defined in §
56.01.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(2)(d) above:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the control authority no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the control authority.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the control
authority a report containing the information described in §
56.35(E)(1)(f) and (g) and division (A)(2)(b) above. For users subject to
equivalent mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the
procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure
of the user's long-term production rate. For all other users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the user's actual production during the appropriate sampling
period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
division (I)(1) below. All sampling will be done in conformance with §
56.16(B).
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (D)(3) below, all significant
industrial users must, at a frequency determined by the control authority,
submit no less than twice per year (June and December or on dates specified)
reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management practice (BMP)
or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the control authority or the pretreatment standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the user. All laboratory analyses shall be
performed in a state certified laboratory. Self-monitoring reports must be
accompanied by all chain of custody sheets and laboratory data results for each
sampling occurrence.
      (2)   Waiver for pollutant not present. The city, at its discretion, may
authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard to
forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a categorical pretreatment standard
if the industrial user has demonstrated through sampling and other technical
factors that the pollutant is neither present nor expected to be present in the
discharge, or is present only at background levels from intake water and
without any increase in the pollutant due to activities of the industrial user.
This authorization is subject to the conditions set forth in SC R.61-9.403.12
(e)(2). The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed by a duly authorized
representative of the user, and include the certification statement in division
(I)(1) below.
      (3)   Reduced reporting. 
         (a)   The city, at its discretion, may reduce the requirement for
periodic compliance reports [(see division (1) above) (SC R 61-9.403.12(e)(3))]
to a requirement to report no less frequently than once a year, unless required
more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the state, where the
industrial user's total categorical wastewater flow does not exceed any of the
following:
            1.   0.01% of the POTW's design dry-weather hydraulic capacity of
the POTW, or 5,000 gallons per day, whichever is smaller, as measured by a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device unless the industrial user
discharges in batches;
            2.   0.01% of the design dry-weather organic treatment capacity of
the POTW; and
            3.   0.01% of the maximum allowable headworks loading for any
pollutant regulated by the applicable categorical pretreatment standard for
which approved local limits were developed in accordance with §
56.21.
         (b)   Reduced reporting is not available to industrial users that have
in the last two years been in significant noncompliance, as defined in §
56.70. In addition, reduced reporting is not available to an industrial user
with daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels that vary so
significantly that, in the opinion of the control authority, decreasing the
reporting requirement for this industrial user would result in data that are
not representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      (4)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with division (I)(1) below.
      (5)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (6)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the control authority, using the procedures
prescribed in §
56.16(B), the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      (7)   Users that send electronic (digital) documents to the city to
satisfy the requirements of this section must:
         (a)   Satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR Part 3 - (electronic
reporting);
         (b)   For any documents submitted electronically, submit duplicate
hard copies in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain an
individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the control authority as the control authority may
require.
   (F)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the control
authority within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall
also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat
analysis to the control authority within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city
performs sampling at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the city
performs sampling at the user between the time when the initial sampling was
conducted and the time when the user or the city receives the results of this
sampling, or if the city has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user.
   (G)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. The discharge of
hazardous waste into the POTW is hereby prohibited.
   (H)   Date of receipt of reports. Written reports will be deemed to have
been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed,
postage prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal
Service, the date of receipt ofthe report shall govern.
   (I)   Certification statements.
      (1)   Certification of permit applications. The following certification
statement is required to be signed and submitted by users submitting permit
applications in accordance with §
56.35(G); users submitting baseline monitoring reports under division (A)(2)(e)
above; users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical pretreatment
standard deadlines under division (C) above; users submitting periodic
compliance reports required by division (D)(1) through (4) above, and users
submitting an initial request to forego sampling of a pollutant on the basis of
division (D)(2) above. The following certification statement must be signed by
an authorized representative, as defined in §
56.01:
         I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
      (2)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial
users. A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the control authority pursuant to §
56.01 (SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER, division (3)) and §
56.35(G)(3) must annually submit the following certification statement signed
in accordance with the signatory requirements in §
56.01. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by the
control authority:
         Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR
       , I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from                                              [months, days, year]:
         (a)   The facility described as                                
[facility name] met the definition of a non-significant categorical industrial
user as described in §
56.01 (SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER, division (3));
         (b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
         (c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
         This compliance certification is based on the following information.
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                               
      (3)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an
approved monitoring waiver based on division (D)(2) above must certify on each
report with the following statement that there has been no increase in the
pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the user.
         Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40 CFR
                        [specify applicable National Pretreatment Standard part
(s)], I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no
increase in the level of                                 [list pollutants] in
the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since filing of the last
periodic report under §
56.42(D)(1).
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.43 RECORDS RETENTION.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices established under §
56.21(B). Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the control authority.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.44 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, monitoring programs and from inspections and
sampling activities shall be available to the public or other governmental
agencies without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able
to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such
request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request
to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report.
   (B)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data,
as defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information
and shall be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.45 MAXIMUM RESTRICTIONS.
   In the event that effluent standards and limitations specified in this
chapter, and categorical pretreatment standards, or other EPA or SCDHEC
standards both apply, the most stringent or restrictive shall become
applicable.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.46 DISCHARGES; DISRUPTED SERVICE.
   (A)   Notice shall be given to the City Administrator or his designee when
wastewater will not be available for discharge, for a period of 12 hours or
longer, or when a change of process is contemplated or malfunction of the
pretreatment facility occurs or is anticipated which will alter demands on the
wastewater treatment system. Normal operations shall include allowances for
legal holidays and other announced plant shutdown.
   (B)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the control
authority of any significant changes to the user's operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days
before the change.
      (1)   The control authority may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a complete wastewater analysis and wastewater
discharge permit application under §
56.35(E), at no cost to the city.
      (2)   The control authority may issue an individual wastewater discharge
permit or a general permit under §
56.36(B) or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit or a general permit
under §
56.36(D) in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the control authority of the incident. This notification shall include
the location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if
known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the control authority, submit a detailed written report describing
the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to
prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user or any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred
as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (C)(1), above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the control
authority immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential
for a slug discharge.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.47 SEPTAGE WASTES.
   (A)   Persons desiring to discharge septage wastes into the wastewater
treatment plant shall be required to obtain a permit from the city. A permit
shall be purchased from the city at a fee set by the city and shall be valid
for one year. The fee for the septage discharge permit is $25.
   (B)   The discharge of septage wastes will be subject to prepayment of fees
or charges fixed by the city based upon the full capacity of each vehicle for
each discharge. The city reserves the right to base charges upon the
concentrations of pollutants contained in the wastes of each load in addition
to, or in lieu of a volume based fee. The discharge fee for each load is $10
per 1,000 gallons, or any portion thereof, of vehicle tank capacity.
   (C)   The city will issue no refund for unused pre-purchased discharge
tickets.
   (D)   Septage will only be accepted at the wastewater treatment plant during
posted business hours.
   (E)   The applicant shall be the owner ofthe vehicle for which a permit is
applied. Any false, untruthful, or misleading statements in any application for
a permit or in any paper submitted in support of the application will
invalidate the permit. A permit may be suspended or revoked at any time by the
city for willful, continued or persistent violations of these rules and
regulations or upon other grounds as the control authority deems proper.
   (F)   All equipment (trucks, tanks, pumps and hoses) used for the collection
or transportation of septage wastes shall be modem equipment in good repair.
When more than one vehicle is used by any applicant, each vehicle shall bear an
identifying number. The city shall refuse a permit to any person utilizing
equipment other than above.
   (G)   All applicants for a permit shall furnish the following information
with each application:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Volume of septage waste for each numbered vehicle; and
      (3)   Number of septage vehicles in collection service.
   (H)   Septage wastes shall be as defined by this chapter. At no time will
the disposal of hazardous wastes or other materials or wastes prohibited be
allowed into the wastewater treatment system. All septage wastes shall be
subject to the requirements herein.
   (I)   Septage shall in no case be held or stored by the hauler for longer
than 64 hours prior to discharge at the wastewater treatment plant All septage
stored or held over 16 hours shall be aerated continuously while in storage.
   (J)   It is unlawful to discharge, or cause to be discharged, any septage
wastes into the sewer system at any point not designated in writing by the
control authority.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.48 GREASE TRAPS.
   (A)   (1)   All commercial and/or industrial entities that are involved in
the preparation and/or serving of food shall install and maintain a grease trap
in the sewer line(s) serving the establishment to meet the limits established
in §
56.19(C).
      (2)   All traps shall be of a design approved by the control authority
and easily accessible for inspecting purposes.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall designate an individual responsible for
the inspection of these grease traps. This person will develop a procedure and
format for these inspections to determine the proper operation of the grease
traps.
   (C)   All grease traps are subject to inspection at least twice yearly on a
scheduled basis. Additionally, the city may perform at least two unannounced
inspections of each grease trap per year.
   (D)   The owner of each grease trap that fails to pass the inspection will
be fined $100 for the first failure. A second failure to pass an inspection
will result in a $500 fine.
   (E)   The third failure to pass an inspection will result in the city having
the trap maintained at the owner's expense for a year.
   (F)   Failure of the owner to make payment to the city for the expense of
mamtaining his grease trap within the allotted time will result in the
termination of water and sewer services to the establishment.
   (G)   Existing commercial entities subject to §
56.63(A) may be granted a waiver by the control authority upon submission and
implementation of an approved oil and grease management plan that significantly
reduces the amount of oil and grease entering the sewer system from the
commercial entity.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 56.60 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A) The control authority may enforce whatever limits deemed necessary to
protect the sanitary sewerage system and the waste treatment facilities or to
facilitate the operation of the sanitary sewerage system and the waste
treatment facilities.
   (B)   The control authority may adjust or revise permit limitations as
needed to protect the sanitary sewerage system and the waste treatment
facilities or to facilitate the operation of the sanitary sewerage system and
the waste treatment facilities, in accordance with §
56.36(D).
   (C)   The City Council may set limits on toxic and priority pollutants that
are more stringent than state and federal requirements when it is necessary for
the protection of the sewerage system and/or the proper operation of the waste
treatment facilities, in accordance with §
56.22.
   (D)   The City Council may exclude from the sanitary sewerage system any
industrial waste or other pollutant, whether pretreated or not, whenever in the
opinion of the City Council, the action is necessary to protect the sanitary
sewerage system and the waste treatment facilities or to facilitate the
operation of the sanitary sewerage system and the waste treatment facilities.
   (E)   Federal and state requirements and limitations on discharges shall
apply in any case where they are more stringent than requirements and
limitations as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.61 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM SURVEILLANCE.
   Annual inspection and sampling. The authority will conduct at a minimum
annually, overall compliance inspections of all significant industrial users.
The inspection will include a review of the following requirements:
   (A) Sampling and analysis of effluent discharges;
   (B) Record keeping;
   (C)   All chemical inventories of raw materials or chemicals stored onsite;
   (D)   Evaluation of production operations;
   (E)   Evaluation of pretreatment facilities:
      (1) Operation;
      (2) Design;
      (3) Maintenance;
      (4) Sampling methods;
      (5) Analytical techniques;
      (6)   Flow measurement; and
      (7)   Any other area designated by the control authority.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.62 INSPECTIONS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling. The control authority and
duly authorized representatives of the city shall have the right to enter the
premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this chapter and any individual wastewater discharge permit or
general permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the control
authority ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties. The city shall notify, if available, the person or a
representative of the person prior to entering the premises.
      (1)    Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the control authority shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The control authority shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      (3)   The control authority may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated once per year to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the control authority and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the control authority access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Each significant industrial user shall be subject to a facility
inspection each year to review production processes and pretreatment
facilities.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.63 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATIONS; NUISANCES.
   (A)   When the control authority finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the control authority may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within the time limit specified in the notice of violation, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the control authority. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves
the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of
the city to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this chapter, wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or
abated as directed by the control authority. If any person discharges sewage,
industrial wastes or other wastes into the city's treatment system contrary to
this chapter, wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city attorney shall commence an
action for appropriate legal or equitable relief or both in the Circuit Court
of Marlboro County.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.64 COMPLIANCE; SCHEDULES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Compliance schedules. The control authority is hereby empowered to
enter into compliance schedules, assurances of voluntary compliance or other
similar documents establishing an agreement with the user responsible for the
noncompliance. Schedules will include specific actions to be taken by the user
to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the
schedules.
   (B)   Consent orders. The control authority is hereby empowered to enter
into consent orders, assurance of voluntary compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with the User responsible for the
noncompliance. The orders will include specific actions to be taken by the user
to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative orders
issued pursuant to §
56.66.
   (C)   Compliance order. When the control authority finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter or a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the control authority may issue an order
to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into
compliance within a specified time. If user does not come into compliance
within the time provided, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances have been
installed and are properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain other
requirements as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the
noncompliance, including the installation of pretreatment technology,
additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the
amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend
the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any
violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.65 SHOW CAUSE HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The control authority may order a user which causes or
contributes to violations(s) of this chapter or discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to show
cause before the control authority why an enforcement action should not be
taken.
      (2)   A notice shall be served on the user, specifying the time and place
of a hearing to be held, the proposed enforcement action and the reasons for
the action, and a request that the user show cause why this proposed action
should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served by certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior to the hearing. The
notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user, as defined
in §
56.01, and required by §
56.35(G). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
      (3)   Whether or not a duly notified industrial user appears as noticed,
immediate enforcement action may be pursued.
   (B)   At any public hearing, testimony taken before the hearing authority or
any person designated by it must be under oath and recorded stenographically.
The transcript so recorded will be made available to the hearing to any member
of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual charges
therefor. The hearing authority may itself conduct the hearing and take
evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the hearing authority notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in any hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the hearing
authority for action thereon.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.66 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the control authority finds that an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past
violations are likely to recur, the control authority may issue an order to the
user to cease and desist all violation and direct those persons in
noncompliance to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and terminating the discharge. Issuing a cease and desist order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.67 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The control authority may immediately suspend the wastewater treatment
service and/or the industrial discharge permit of a user whenever the
suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
presenting or causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The control authority may also immediately suspend a user's
discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the industrial discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate its
contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the control authority shall take steps
as deemed necessary, including, but not limited to, immediate severance of the
sewer connection or water service connection, to prevent or minimize the damage
to the wastewater treatment system, the receiving stream or endangerment to any
individuals. The control authority shall allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the control
authority, that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination
proceedings set forth in §
56.66 are initiated against the user.
   (C)   A user which is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting irnminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the control authority prior to the date of the
hearing described in §§
56.65 and
56.68.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.68 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in §
56.36(F), any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit or general
permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
56.19 through
56.23.
   (B)   Nothing in this section is exclusive and violators of this section may
be subject to other penalties as prescribed by law and other enforcement
sections of this chapter. Such user will be notified of the proposed
termination of its discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under
§
56.65 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the control authority shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.69 JUDICIAL REMEDIES; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Whenever a person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the wastewater treatment system contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, an order or permit issued hereunder, the control authority, through
the city's attorneys may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the Circuit Court for Marlboro County.
   (B)   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of
this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement, the control authority, through counsel may petition
the court for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction or both, as
may be appropriate, which restrains or compels the activities on the part of
the user. The control authority shall have remedies to collect these fees as it
has to collect other sewer service charges. The control authority may also seek
such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief,
including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A
petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.70 PUBLICATION AND SEVERANCE.
   (A)   Publication of users in significant noncompliance. The control
authority shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general circulation that
provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the POTW,
a list of the users which, at any time during the previous 12 months, were in
significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall be applicable to all
significant industrial users (or any other industrial user) that violates
divisions (A)(3), (4) or (8) below and shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations, defined here as those in which 66% or more of
all the measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six-
month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or
requirement, including instantaneous limits;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits,
multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease,
and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
(daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative standard)
that the control authority determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the control authority's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or a
general permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the city determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   (B)   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions of
this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement, water service to the user may be severed and service
will only recommence at the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily
demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19-16)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative fines. Notwithstanding any other sections of this
chapter, any user who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter,
or permits and orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, shall be fined in an amount up to $2,000 per day per violation.
Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or continue to occur shall be
deemed a separate and distinct violation. In the case of monthly or other long-
term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during-the
period of violation. Assessments shall be added to the user's next sewer
service charge and the control authority shall have other collection remedies
as he has to collect other service charges. Unpaid charges, fines and penalties
shall constitute a lien against the individual user's property. Industrial
users desiring to dispute the fine must file a request for the control
authority to reconsider the fine within ten days of being notified of the fine.
Where the control authority believes a request to have merit, he shall convene
a hearing on the matter within 15 days of receiving the request from the user.
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who has violated or continues to violate this chapter or
any permit or order issued hereunder, shall, be liable to the control authority
for a civil penalty of up to $2,000, plus actual damages incurred by the city
per violation per day for as long as the violation continues. In addition, the
control authority may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The control authority shall petition the court to impose, assess
and recover the sums. In determining the amount of liability, the Court shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation(s), any economic benefit gained by the user through failure to
comply, corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and
any other factor as justice requires.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Violations, generally.
         (a)   Any user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $5,000 per violation per day or
imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
         (b)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance
into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a penalty of up to $2,000 per violation, per day, or
be subject to imprisonment, or both, as provided by state law. This penalty
shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or
property damage available under state law.
         (c)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be
punishable by a fine up to $2,000 per day per violation or imprisonment for not
more than three years or both.
      (2)   Falsification of information.
         (a)   Any user who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained by this chapter or discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000 per
violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
         (b)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be
punishable by a fine up to $2,000 per day per violation or imprisonment for not
more than three years or both.
   (D)   Additional penalty.
      (1)   If a user whose violations(s) of this chapter is responsible for a
violation of the city's NPDES permit and the assessment of a fine or penalty by
SCDHEC on the city for the user caused violation, then the person whose
violation is responsible for, the city's noncompliance shall be assessed a
penalty of not less than that imposed upon the city by SCDHEC.
      (2)   The city shall pursue a policy of recovering any and all economic
benefit from noncompliance in the assessment of penalties under this chapter.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover
reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees and other expenses
of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to have
violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder.
      (4)   The city shall disconnect sewer service for any person who is more
than 90 days in arrears with payment of monthly sewer service charges.
Reconnection may be permitted after payment of all charge and penalties as
herein provided.
   (E)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive, the control authority may take any, all, or any combination of
these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with the city's enforcement response
plan. However, the control authority may take other action against any user
when the circumstances warrant. Further, the control authority is empowered to
take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
   (F)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Upset.
         (a)   Any user which experiences an upset in operations that places in
a temporary state of noncompliance, which is not the result of operational
error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment
facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper operation,
shall inform the control authority, or his defense, thereof, immediately upon
becoming aware of the upset. Where the information is given orally, written
report thereof shall be filed the user within five days of the oral
notification. The report shall contain:
            1.   A description of the upset, its cause and impact on the
discharger's compliance status;
            2.   The duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
of noncompliance, and if the noncompliance is continuing, the day by which
compliance is reasonably expected to be restored; and
            3.   All steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
the recurrence of an upset.
         (b)   A user which complies with the notification provisions of this
chapter in a timely manner shall have an affirmative defense to any enforcement
action except those penalties assessed under division (C) above, by the city
for any noncompliance with this chapter, or a permit order issued hereunder by
the user, which arises out of violations attributable to and alleged to have
occurred during the period of the documented and verified upset.
      (2)   Prohibited discharge standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in §
56.19(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
56.19(B) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would
cause pass through or interference and that either:
         (a)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user
was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or
         (b)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
(Ord. 16-04-001, passed 4-19–16)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   RAILROADS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Jurisdiction of Court
   
70.04   Powers of Council
   
70.05   Obedience to police officers
   
70.06   Licenses required
   
70.07   Responsibility of owner
   
70.08   Fixing traffic tickets
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   This code may be cited as the “Bennettsville Traffic Code.”
('88 Code, § 18.101)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the definitions of S.C. Code § 56-5-110 are
hereby adopted and made a part of this code.
('88 Code, § 18.102)
§ 70.03 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Municipal Court may try and determine criminal cases involving violation
of the provisions of this code or provisions of the S.C. Code relating to motor
vehicles and traffic occurring within the corporate limits, when the penalty
prescribed by state law for violations does not exceed 30 days imprisonment or
$200 fine. The Court may have trial jurisdiction over criminal cases the same
as magistrates.
( S.C. Code § 56-5-6150) ('88 Code, § 18.103)
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of municipal courts, see S.C. Code § 14-25-45
§ 70.04 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to the Code of Laws of South Carolina, as amended, the Council
shall have the power and is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Regulate the operation and parking of vehicles within the corporate
limits by the erection or placing of proper signs or markers indicating
prohibited or limited parking, restricted speed areas, one-way streets, play
streets, through or arterial streets, U-turns, school zones and other official
traffic-control devices indicating the place or manner of operating or parking
vehicles, including loading zones;
   (B)   Regulate the movement of pedestrians upon the streets and sidewalks by
the erection or placement of proper signs or markers indicating the flow of
pedestrian traffic;
   (C)   Mark off traffic lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and
directing the flow of traffic; and/or
   (D)   Secure all necessary signs, markers or official traffic-control
devices to be erected or placed on any street or part of a street. The
existence of the signs, markers or official traffic-control devices at any
place shall be prima facie evidence that the signs, markers or official
traffic-control devices were erected or placed by and at the direction of the
Council and in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30) ('88 Code, § 18.104)
§ 70.05 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
('88 Code, § 18.109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street without a valid
driver's license issued by this or another state to operate the vehicle. The
vehicle shall have current license tags.
('88 Code, § 18.105) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory requirements, see S.C. Code § 56-1-20
§ 70.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   No person shall allow or permit any vehicle registered in his name to
violate any ordinance. A violation of ordinances shall be presumed to be with
the knowledge of the owner of the vehicle.
('88 Code, § 18.106) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see S.C. Code § 56-1-6120
§ 70.08 FIXING TRAFFIC TICKETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any official or employee of the city to “fix” any
ticket or summons issued by the Police Department for a violation of this code
or any other traffic ordinance.
('88 Code, § 18.108) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Adoption of state laws
   
71.002   Toy vehicles
   
71.003   Spilling loads
   
71.004   Horns restricted in quiet zones
   
71.005   Opening doors in traffic
   
71.006   Municipal vehicles
   
71.007   Advertising restrictions; repairs
   
71.008   Motorcycles
   
71.009   Unattended motor vehicles
   
71.010   Accidents; written reports
   
71.011   Interfering with signs and signals
Vehicle Operation
   
71.025   Restricted passing and overtaking
   
71.026   Turning restrictions
   
71.027   Backing limitations
   
71.028   Entering a through street
   
71.029   Entering intersection or crosswalk
   
71.030   Moving on one-way streets
   
71.031   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
71.032   Operation on play streets
   
71.033   Streets under repair
   
71.034   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.035   Reckless driving
   
71.036   Following too closely
   
71.037   Truck restrictions
   
71.038   Shifting lanes
   
71.039   Driving while intoxicated
Speed Limitations
   
71.050   Restrictions
   
71.051   Authority to establish
   
71.052   Prima facie limits
   
71.053   When lower speeds required
   
71.054   Truck tractors
   
71.055   Racing or drag racing
   
71.056   Emergency vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.070   Obedience required
   
71.071   Enforcement dependent
   
71.072   Interpretation
   
71.073   Walk and wait signals
   
71.074   Flashing signals
   
71.075   One-way streets
   
71.076   Display of unauthorized signs
Processions
   
71.090   Permits required
   
71.091   Driving into funerals and parades
   
71.092   Following closely
   
71.093   Identification
Pedestrians
   
71.105   Obedience to signals required
   
71.106   Crosswalks
   
71.107   Walking on streets and roadways
   
71.108   Hitchhiking prohibited
   
71.109   Drivers to exercise due care
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS.
   (A)   All vehicles shall be operated in accordance with and conformity with
all current state laws and this code or amendments thereto enacted, as relating
to the operation of vehicles. The provisions are adopted by reference and made
a part of this chapter as if set out herein, except those provisions relating
solely to the South Carolina Department of Highways and Public Transportation
and those provisions the penalty for which exceeds a fine of $200 or
imprisonment for more than 30 days.
   (B)   All requirements of S.C. Code Ch. 56 are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter, as if set out in full herein.
('88 Code, § 18.201)
§ 71.002 TOY VEHICLES.
   No person upon roller skates, toy vehicles or similar devices shall go upon
any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon
streets set as play streets, authorized by Council.
('88 Code, § 18.212) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Operation on play streets, see §
71.032
§ 71.003 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom.
('88 Code, § 18.219) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.004 HORNS RESTRICTED IN QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a vehicle within any zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
('88 Code, § 18.220) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.005 OPENING DOORS IN TRAFFIC.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to traffic
for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
('88 Code, § 18.221) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.006 MUNICIPAL VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person, or persons, to ride in or
on any municipal vehicle, without official authority to do so.
('88 Code, § 18.222) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.007 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS; REPAIRS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate or park any vehicle on any street for
the primary purpose of advertising without the prior approval of the Council.
      (2)   Streets shall not be used for storage by dealers, garages, and the
like.
('88 Code, § 18.202)
   (B)   No person shall stand or park vehicles within any public right-of-way
for the principal purpose of displaying it for sale or washing, greasing or
repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency, without
prior approval of the Police Chief. ('88 Code, § 18.223)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to sell,
solicit sales or offer for distribution any merchandise, publication, handbill
or pamphlet while such person is standing in the street, areas reserved for
parking spaces, the areas reserved for loading and unloading or to enter any of
the areas for the purpose of sale and/or delivery of any items. ('88 Code, §
18.505)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.008 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle, nor upon any portion thereof not
designated or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not
apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons
riding within truck bodies in a space intended for merchandise, but it shall
apply to the permanent seat of a motorcycle. ('88 Code, § 18.209)
   (B)   No person riding a motorcycle shall attach the same or himself to any
moving vehicle upon any street. Nor shall any motorcycle be operated in a
reckless or dangerous manner. Riding on handlebars is prohibited. ('88 Code, §
18.210)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.009 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway or street.
('88 Code, § 18.504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.010 ACCIDENTS; WRITTEN REPORTS.
   (A)   Every person driving a vehicle of any kind which strikes or hits any
person or another vehicle shall stop the vehicle at once and render the
assistance as he can, give his name, post office address, license number and
serial number of his vehicle to the other person or driver and shall assist in
calling a police officer and remain at the scene until a police officer
arrives. ('88 Code, § 18.509)
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in an injury
to or the death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of
$50 or more shall, within 24 hours after the accident, forward a report of the
accident to the Police Department, which report may be a copy of the accident
report required to be filed with the state under S.C. Code § 56-5-1270. The
Police Chief may require any driver to file supplemental reports whenever, in
his opinion, the original report is insufficient and also may require witnesses
of accidents to render reports to him. ('88 Code, § 18.510)
§ 71.011 INTERFERING WITH SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in any way alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal of any description, shield or insignia thereon or any
other part thereof.
('88 Code, § 18.511) Penalty, see §
70.99
VEHICLE OPERATION
§ 71.025 RESTRICTED PASSING AND OVERTAKING.
   (A)   The Council may determine those portions of any street where
overtaking and passing a vehicle proceeding in the same direction or driving to
the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of the zones.
When the signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
('88 Code, § 18.216)
   (B)   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions, passing on the
left and on the right of other vehicles shall conform with S.C. Code §§ 56-5-
1810, 1830, 1840, 1850, 1860 and 1880. ('88 Code, § 18.233)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction when the passing vehicle is within 100 feet of
an intersection, approaching a curve, when a solid yellow line is located in
the lane of the passing vehicle or upon a hill or grade. ('88 Code, § 18.501)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   No passing zones, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1890
§ 71.026 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to use a
sidewalk area or any driveway, parking lot or business entrance at any
intersection to “cut a corner” purposely. It is the intention of this section
to prohibit corner cutting by driving a vehicle from one street into another
across any sidewalk and/or driveway. ('88 Code, § 18.203)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to make a U-turn
or other prohibited turn at any point where the turn is prohibited by posted
signs or to accomplish a U-turn by deviously going into or through private
property adjoining a street where the turn is prohibited. ('88 Code, § 18.213)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.027 BACKING LIMITATIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it unless the movement can be made
with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
('88 Code, § 18.204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.028 ENTERING A THROUGH STREET.
   When stop signs are erected at the entrance to any intersection, every
driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the intersection, except when
directed to proceed by an officer or traffic-control signal.
('88 Code, § 18.205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.029 ENTERING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
('88 Code, § 18.206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.030 MOVING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets whereon signs are erected
designating them as one-way streets, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction.
('88 Code, § 18.207) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.031 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while it is in motion.
('88 Code, § 18.208) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.032 OPERATION ON PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or any part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any portion
thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within the closed area.
('88 Code, § 18.211) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.033 STREETS UNDER REPAIR.
   No person shall drive or cause to be driven any vehicle over any street
which is being repaired or paved or over any part of a street wholly closed to
travel.
('88 Code, § 18.214) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.034 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride or drive a motor vehicle on the
sidewalks of any public streets, except for the purpose of crossing the same.
('88 Code, § 18.215) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.035 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives a vehicle in a manner as to indicate a willful
or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be guilty of
reckless driving and of a violation of this section. ('88 Code, § 18.217)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle without
care and caution and full regard for safety of persons or property. Any person
failing so to do shall be guilty of careless driving or riding. The operation
of any vehicle when the same or any of its appliances is not in proper or safe
condition shall be prima facie evidence of careless driving or riding. Careless
operation is unlawful and may be a lesser included offense of reckless driving.
(Ord. 90-06-0, passed 6-19-90)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see S.C. Code § 56-5-2920
§ 71.036 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicle,
the traffic and the conditions of the street.
('88 Code, § 18.218)
§ 71.037 TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   No truck or truck travel unit exceeding 25 feet in overall length shall be
operated on the streets hereinafter designated in the city except those trucks
having an origin or destination on the streets or which origin or destination
can be reached only by using the street or parts thereof. Traffic is prohibited
on all streets designated as through streets in
Traffic Schedule I of Chapter 75.
('88 Code, § 18.232) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.038 SHIFTING LANES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to shift lanes of traffic
without first ascertaining that a shift in lanes of traffic by his vehicle will
not impede or interfere with the movement of any other vehicle upon the public
right-of-way.
('88 Code, § 18.503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.039 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of
intoxicating liquors, narcotic drugs, barbiturates, paraldehydes or drugs,
herbs or any substance of like character, whether synthetic or natural, to
drive any vehicle within the corporate limits.
   (B)   The penalty for violating this section shall be as prescribed by state
law.
('88 Code, § 18.503) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.050 RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall be so controlled
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other
conveyance on or entering the street in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
('88 Code, § 18.224) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory speed restrictions, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-1520 et seq.
§ 71.051 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   The Council may, from time to time, establish speed limits different from
those set out in this subchapter on particular streets or parts of streets or
in particular areas. When signs or markings are installed giving notice of the
speed limits, it shall be unlawful to exceed the indicated speed.
('88 Code, § 18.227) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.052 PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed for
compliance with this subchapter, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of the
limits specified in this subchapter shall be lawful, the limits established in
this section being:
      (1)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any business district; and
      (2)   Thirty-five miles per hour in any residence district.
   (B)   Any speed in excess of the limits shall be prima facie evidence that
the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful.
('88 Code, § 18.225) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory speed restrictions, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-1520 et seq.
§ 71.053 WHEN LOWER SPEEDS REQUIRED.
   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of this
chapter, drive at an appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway and when any special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or street conditions.
('88 Code, § 18.226) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory speed restrictions, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-1520 et seq.
§ 71.054 TRUCK TRACTORS.
   Where no special hazards exist, motor trucks and motor truck tractors of a
size greater than 1½ tons shall obey signs posted giving notice of special
conditions.
('88 Code, § 18.228)
§ 71.055 RACING OR DRAG RACING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a motor vehicle race or
contest for speed or acceleration on any public road, street or highway or to
aid, abet or assist in any manner whatsoever in any race contest. It shall be
unlawful also for any owner of a motor vehicle to acquiesce in or permit his
car to be used by another in any motor vehicle race or contest for speed.
('88 Code, § 18.229) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.056 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The speed limitations set forth herein shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles when responding to emergency calls and the drivers thereof
sound an audible signal by siren, bell or exhaust whistle capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500
feet. Operators of other vehicles shall give way to the emergency vehicle,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer or other authorized person.
   (B)   This provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street, nor shall it protect the driver of any vehicle from the
consequence of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
('88 Code, § 18.230)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency and law enforcement vehicles, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-760 et seq.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.070 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   All vehicle drivers shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device, applicable thereto, placed in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in this subchapter.
('88 Code, § 18.234.1)
§ 71.071 ENFORCEMENT DEPENDENT.
   No provision of this subchapter, for which signs are required, shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in place and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular provision does not
state that signs are required, the provision shall be effective, even though no
signs are erected or in place.
('88 Code, § 18.234.2)
§ 71.072 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting different colored lights, one
at a time or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and the terms
and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
follows:
      (1)   Green alone or “Go.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left, unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn, but
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or “Caution” shown following green or “Go” signal or
in combination therewith.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and the
vehicular traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red
or “Stop” signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrians then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or “Stop.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown alone.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway, unless
he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Red with green arrow.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless
he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
('88 Code, § 18.234.3)
   (B)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of division
(A) above shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal. ('88
Code, § 18.234.4)
§ 71.073 WALK AND WAIT SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Wait” are in place, the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” shall indicate that a pedestrian facing the signal may proceed
across the roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-
of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” shall indicate that no pedestrian shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
island while the wait signal is showing.
('88 Code, § 18.234.5)
§ 71.074 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection. The right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or past the signal only with caution.
('88 Code, § 18.234.6)
§ 71.075 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   All one-way streets, alleys and longitudinally divided streets shall be
clearly marked by signs indicating the direction of traffic thereon at every
intersection, where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
('88 Code, § 18.234.7)
§ 71.076 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display upon or in
view of any street an unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal, or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every
prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and the Police Chief may remove the same or cause it to be removed without
notice.
('88 Code, § 18.234.8) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROCESSIONS
§ 71.090 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No procession or parade containing 100 or more persons or 25 or more
vehicles, excepting the armed forces of the United States, or of this state and
forces of the Police and Fire departments, shall occupy, march or proceed along
any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the Council and other
regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. Funerals shall be exempt.
('88 Code, § 18.301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.091 DRIVING INTO FUNERALS AND PARADES.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral,
parade or other authorized procession while same are in motion and when the
vehicles are conspicuously, designated as required herein. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic signals or
police officers.
('88 Code, § 18.302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.092 FOLLOWING CLOSELY.
   Each driver in a funeral, parade or other similar procession shall drive as
near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
('88 Code, § 18.303)
§ 71.093 IDENTIFICATION.
   A parade or procession, including funerals, composed of a procession of
vehicles, shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle as may be designated by the Police Chief.
('88 Code, § 18.304)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.105 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   Pedestrians shall strictly comply with the directions of any official
traffic-control signal, device, marking, and the like, or police officer.
('88 Code, § 18.601)
§ 71.106 CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of a
crosswalk.
('88 Code, § 18.602)
§ 71.107 WALKING ON STREETS AND ROADWAYS.
   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a street shall, when practicable, walk only
on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may
approach from the opposite direction.
('88 Code, § 18.603) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Walk and wait signals, see §
71.073
§ 71.108 HITCHHIKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of a vehicle.
('88 Code, § 18.604) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.109 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
any pedestrian upon any street and shall give warning by sounding the horn,
when necessary, and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child
or any confused or incapacitated person upon a street.
('88 Code, § 18.605)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Loading and unloading spaces
   
72.02   Blocking streets and alleys
   
72.03   Manner of parking
   
72.04   Special parking places
   
72.05   Designated parking places
   
72.06   Handicapped parking
   
72.07   Parking in hazardous or congested places
   
72.08   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.09   Parking in business districts
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to load or unload merchandise from
trucks or other vehicles in front of any business, except where unable to load
or unload at the rear thereof and use of front-door loading does not constitute
a traffic hazard. Stopping times shall be reasonable.
('88 Code, § 18.401) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 BLOCKING STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street or alley
in a manner or under conditions as to available less than ten feet of the width
of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a driver may
stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of passengers or when
necessary in obedience to traffic regulations, traffic signs or a police
officer.
   (B)   When signs prohibiting parking are erected on narrow streets, no
person shall park a vehicle in any designated place.
('88 Code, § 18.402) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 MANNER OF PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel thereto,
headed in the direction of traffic and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle
within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway, unless otherwise provided by
ordinance.
('88 Code, § 18.403) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 SPECIAL PARKING PLACES.
   The Council, in its discretion, may designate special parking areas or
places for which sufficient cause is shown.
('88 Code, § 18.404)
§ 72.05 DESIGNATED PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any street whereon signs are erected.
   (B)   All vehicles parked in areas in which parking spaces have been marked
off or designated shall be parked entirely within a single space.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park adjacent to fire hydrants in a manner as
to interfere with emergency situations or vehicles.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park a bus on a public street, except in
places designated and marked as bus stops.
   (E)   Except in emergencies, double parking, as commonly understood, shall
be prohibited.
('88 Code, § 18.405) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   To provide a system for its handicapped citizens and to facilitate their
freedom of movement throughout the community, it is hereby ordained that:
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, “handicapped” shall mean any person
who is totally blind, has a disability of coordination resulting from brain,
spinal or peripheral nerve damage, has an amputation of one or more of the
lower extremities, has an obvious physical disability that requires the use of
a wheelchair, braces, walker, crutches, prosthetic devices or any person who,
in the opinion of a licensed physician, has a physical impairment which renders
them restricted in their ability to move about freely, to include but not
limited to, persons of advanced age, or persons with respiratory, heart or
circulatory difficulties.
   (B)   Any person who is handicapped, as defined in this section, or any
person who regularly transports a handicapped person shall be allowed to park
in designated spaces reserved for handicapped persons, as specifically marked
by distinguishing letters or signs. As a condition of this privilege, a vehicle
transporting handicapped persons shall display a distinguishing parking decal
which shall display the information for enforcement purposes. Any person who is
handicapped, as defined in this section, shall obtain a decal from the S.C.
Department of Highways and Public Transportation, and the decal shall be
displayed as required by the Department.
('88 Code, § 18.406) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING IN HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When signs are erected at an approach to hazardous or congested places no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any designated place.
('88 Code, § 18.407) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any
designated place.
('88 Code, § 18.401)
§ 72.09 PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   OPERATOR. Every individual who shall operate a vehicle thereof, or as the
agent, employee or permittee of the owner, or who is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a street
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose, and while actually engaged in,
receiving or discharging passengers, or loading or unloading merchandise, or in
obedience to traffic regulations signs or signals, or an involuntary stop of
the vehicle by reason of causes beyond the control of the operator of the
vehicle.
   PARKING SPACE. Any space within a two-hour parking zone which is duly
designated for the parking of the single vehicle by lines painted or otherwise
durably marked on the curb or on the surface of the street.
   (B)   Duties of Police Chief; parking outside designated space. The Police
Chief is hereby directed and authorized to mark off individual parking spaces
on the streets of the city, the parking spaces to be designated by lines
painted or durably marked on the curbing or surface of the street. At each
space so marked off, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a way that the
vehicle shall not be entirely within the limits of the space so designated.
Further, the Police Chief is hereby directed and authorized to place signs of a
durable structure on the streets and sidewalks of the city designating two-hour
parking.
   (C)   Towing and storage of vehicles.
      (1)   Members of the Police Department are authorized hereby to remove
any vehicle from any of the city streets upon a violation of the provisions of
this section and to tow it to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or
to a garage designated or maintained by the Department or otherwise maintained
by the city. The vehicle shall be held until claimed by the legal owner or
until otherwise disposed of.
      (2)   Before the owner of any vehicle shall be entitled to recover the
possession of the vehicle, he shall pay charges to the wrecker service.
   (D)   Notice to owner of towed vehicle.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief, or a person designated by
him, to notify the owner of any impounded vehicle in writing, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, within 72 hours, of the fact that his vehicle
has been impounded, setting forth the reason for the impounding and the amount
of the charges constituting a lien thereon.
      (2)   If the vehicle is registered in this or any other state, the
registered owner thereof, as shown by the records of the state of its
registration, shall be deemed to be the owner of the vehicle. The mailing of
the notice required hereby to the registered owner at the address shown on the
records shall be deemed sufficient notification hereunder.
   (E)   Written notice to appear; answering parking violation charge. Whenever
any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked in violation of any of the
parking restrictions of this section, the officer finding it shall take its
registration number and any other information displayed on the vehicle which
may identify its user, and affix conspicuously to the vehicle a notice in
writing, on a form provided by the city, for the driver to answer to the charge
against him during the hours and at the time and place specified in the notice.
The officer shall send one copy of the notice to the Municipal Court.
   (F)   Responsibility of owner of illegally parked vehicle. If any vehicle is
found upon a street in violation of any provision of this section regulating
the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles and the identity of the driver
cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is
registered, shall be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
('88 Code, § 18.411) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   No-parking zones, see
Parking Schedule II
   Two-hour parking, see Parking Schedule I
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person, without the decal described in §
72.06, who shall park in parking places designated as being reserved for
handicapped persons shall be deemed to be in violation of this section and,
upon conviction of the offense, shall be fined $10. No person or persons who
have a license tag, decal or other emblem displayed on their vehicle, which
indicates a handicapped condition, whether a South Carolina motorist or a
motorist from another state, shall be subject to the fine. ('88 Code, § 18.406)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Applicability
   
73.02   Duty to keep right
   
73.03   Riding abreast prohibited
   
73.04   Bicycle paths to be used
   
73.05   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.06   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.07   Gripping handlebars required
   
73.08   Required equipment
   
73.09   Larceny of bicycles
   
73.10   Mopeds
§ 73.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any
highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject
to those exceptions stated herein. ('88 Code, § 18.701)
   (B)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by this code, except as to special regulations herein and except
as to those provisions of this code which by their nature can have no
application. ('88 Code, § 18.702)
§ 73.02 DUTY TO KEEP RIGHT.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable.
('88 Code, § 18.703)
§ 73.03 RIDING ABREAST PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for persons on bicycles to ride more than two abreast,
except in parades, similar circumstances or on bicycle paths.
('88 Code, § 18.704) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 BICYCLE PATHS TO BE USED.
   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
('88 Code, § 18.705) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride a bicycle on a sidewalk in the
business district, except for the purpose of crossing the same when necessary.
('88 Code, § 18.706) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles prohibited on sidewalks, see
Traffic Schedule II
§ 73.06 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon a bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach it or them or himself to any vehicle on a roadway.
('88 Code, § 18.707) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Motorcycles, see §
71.008
   Toy vehicles, see §
71.002
§ 73.07 GRIPPING HANDLEBARS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a bicycle without having at least one hand
on the handlebar at all times, or to fail to have control of the bicycle at all
times.
('88 Code, § 18.708) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Lights. Every bicycle, when in use after dark, shall be equipped with
a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of
at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear which shall
be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of the lawful upper beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A
red lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
may be used in addition to the red reflector. “After dark” shall mean the time
during which the street lights are, or should be, lighted. ('88 Code, § 18.709)
   (B)   Warning devices. No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least 100 feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped
with, nor shall any person use upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle. ('88 Code,
§ 18.710)
   (C)   Brakes. No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a
brake which will enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry,
level and clean pavement. ('88 Code, § 18.712)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 LARCENY OF BICYCLES.
   The larceny of any bicycle shall be punishable at the discretion of the
Court, when the value thereof is less than $100.
('88 Code, § 18.711)
§ 73.10 MOPEDS.
   (A)   Every person riding a moped upon a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and privileges and be subject to all of the duties applicable to drivers
of motor vehicles by the laws of this state, and the traffic ordinances of this
city, except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their
nature can have no application. A license shall be required.
   (B)   No moped shall be operated with excessive noise.
   (C)   No person shall operate a moped on the sidewalks of the city.
   (D)   No moped operator shall ride double unless equipped for an additional
rider.
   (E)   All moped operators shall obey traffic signs, signals and markings and
also the proper hand signals when turning.
   (F)   Every moped shall be equipped with a headlight and taillight which
shall shine while the motor is running and with brake lights and brakes in good
working condition.
   (G)   The word “moped,” as used herein, shall include bicycles with helper
motors.
('88 Code, § 18.713) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: RAILROADS
Section
   
74.01   Blocking crossings
   
74.02   Construction and maintenance of crossings
   
74.03   Unlawful riding
   
74.04   Speed limitation
   
74.05   Flagmen
   
74.06   Required signs
§ 74.01 BLOCKING CROSSINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having charge or control of any railroad
locomotive car or cars to stop or cause the same to stop upon or cross any
street for more than five minutes at a time, nor at less intervals than five
minutes between stops, nor to stop upon or across any other street or road,
used for travel by pedestrians or vehicles, for more than ten minutes at a time
nor at less intervals than five minutes at a time between stops.
('88 Code, § 18.801) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of railroad companies and managers thereof owning
or controlling railroads within the corporate limits and operating trains
therein, to provide crossings easy of access and suitable for the use of
pedestrian and street traffic and controlled by elevated “Railroad Crossing”
signs. ('88 Code, § 18.802)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of railroad companies to put in good repair and
maintain in good condition all streets or parts of streets through or over
which its line of tracks may run and to keep the same free from obstructions of
every kind. ('88 Code, § 18.803)
§ 74.03 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except employees thereof, to climb or
to attempt to climb upon or to board or attempt to board any locomotive,
engine, car, coach or train of cars while the same is in motion or for any
person other than a regular passenger or employee of the railroad to ride on or
upon any locomotive engine, car, coach or train of cars while same is operated
within the corporate limits.
('88 Code, § 18.804) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 SPEED LIMITATION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any railroad train at a greater speed than
ten miles per hour within the corporate limits.
('88 Code, § 18.805) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 FLAGMEN.
   Every railroad company, or corporation controlling a railroad company,
within the corporate limits shall be required to have flagmen placed at the
railroad freight station, known as the Seaboard Coastline Railroad station,
upon the arrival or departure of all trains and of all trains or engines at
work on the yard at the station and the crossing of Broad Street. The flagman
shall use a flag in the daytime and a lantern at night to give the signal.
('88 Code, § 18.806)
§ 74.06 REQUIRED SIGNS.
   All railroad companies having a track within the corporate limits shall
maintain elevated signs so as to be easily seen by drivers at the place where a
track crosses any street. On each side of the sign shall be printed in large
letters the words “Railroad Crossing.”
('88 Code, § 18.807)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through streets
      
II.   Bicycles prohibited on sidewalks
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to constitute
through streets and traffic thereon shall be subject to traffic light control
at all points or intersections where lights are provided.
Street Location
Street              Location
Broad Street        From Main Street to the city limits
Cheraw Street       From Main Street to the city limits
East Main Street    From Broad Street to the city limits, including Tyson
                    Avenue
Fayetteville Street From Broad Street to Tyson Avenue
Jennings Street     From Main Street to the city limits
King Street         From Broad   Street to Jennings Street
Main Street         From both the east and west directions
Market Street       From Cheraw Street to East Main
Marshall Street     From Main Street to US15/US401 Bypass
West Main Street    From Broad Street to the city limits
 
('88 Code, § 18.108)
SCHEDULE II. BICYCLES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   Bicycles shall be prohibited in the following places of the business
district.
 
Location                        Side(s)
Fayetteville Avenue             South
Liberty Street                  West
Liberty Street                  South
Market Street on the north      North
*Parsonage Street and extension East
NOTE TO TABLE:
* - Bicycles may be ridden on Parsonage Street between Fayetteville Avenue and
East Main Street.
 
('88 Code, § 18.706) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   [Reserved]
      
II.   No-parking zones
SCHEDULE I. [RESERVED.]
SCHEDULE II. NO-PARKING ZONES.
   The following is a no-parking zone. It shall be unlawful to park in the
following location during the times specified.
 
Location                                      Side  Time Restriction
McCall Street from Robeson Street to Jennings South 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Street
 
('88 Code, § 18.411) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED JUNK VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Storing or keeping junked vehicles
   
90.03   Abandoning junked vehicles
   
90.04   Removal and sale of vehicles
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK AUTOMOBILE. Any vehicle of the present value that it would not be
economical to repair or restore it and without a current license plate and a
current windshield sticker.
   UNOPERATIONAL AUTOMOBILE. An automobile incapable of moving under its own
power without repair, in an abandoned status and without a current license
plate and a current windshield sticker.
(‘88 Code, § 18.410)
§ 90.02 STORING OR KEEPING JUNKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any property in the corporate
limits to permit a vehicle not having a current motor vehicle license, and upon
which property taxes have not been paid, to be brought upon or remain upon his
property other than a licensed new car or used car dealer, garage or wrecking
yard, upon property operated for the business and provided the vehicle is
covered or sheltered in a fashion to be adequate to prevent the infestation of
the vehicle by snakes, mosquitoes, other insects or rats and other vermin.
   (B)   No person shall salvage or otherwise maintain upon his property any
unoperational vehicle for the purpose of taking parts therefrom, the purpose of
storage or repair without the motor vehicle having a current motor vehicle
license unless the motor vehicle is covered as outlined above.
(‘88 Code, § 18.410) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 ABANDONING JUNKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a junk or unoperational
vehicle, as defined, upon the public streets.
(‘88 Code, § 18.409) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 REMOVAL AND SALE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   If any vehicle is found by any police officer abandoned on the public
streets, it shall be his duty to cause the vehicle to be removed and conveyed
to a garage designated by the Police Chief. The owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be given immediate personal notice or notice by
certified mail, if his address can be ascertained.
   (B)   If the address of the owner cannot be ascertained, then the Police
Chief shall advertise that the car has been abandoned and impounded, giving an
accurate description thereof, the name of the person licensed to operate it and
the circumstances under which the same was found and removed and calling upon
the owner to reclaim the same within 30 days. Notice shall be published once a
week for four consecutive weeks in a locally distributed newspaper. If the
vehicle is not reclaimed after the advertisement, then the same shall be sold
for cash to the highest bidder at the place as may be designated therefor.
   (C)   The expenses of removing, keeping, advertising and selling the vehicle
shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale. The balance, if any, shall be
deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer, subject to the claim of the owner to be
filed and proven within 12 months thereafter. If no claim is filed and proven
within that time, the proceeds shall be forfeited. The Police Chief shall keep
a record of the vehicle, the name of the registered owner, the license tag and
the circumstances under which it was found, impounded, stored and sold.
(‘88 Code, § 18.409)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Running at large prohibited
   
91.02   Keeping certain animals
   
91.03   Bird sanctuary
   
91.04   Pet shops
   
91.05   Community cats
Specific Dog Regulations
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Humane tethering
   
91.17   [Reserved]
   
91.18   Nuisances; female dogs in heat
   
91.19   Barking dogs; nuisance
   
91.20   Restraint, disposal of fecal material required
   
91.21   Care required; fights prohibited
   
91.22   Injuring dogs; notice
   
91.23   Biting; procedure
   
91.24   Duties of Police Department
   
91.25   Impoundment procedures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any horse, mule, cow, goat,
swine, fowl or any animal of any kind, excluding community cats, to run at
large within the city limits.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see S.C. Code § 47-7-110
§ 91.02 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep and maintain, within the city, either
cows or horses on any lot of land containing less than one acre for each animal
kept and maintained thereon. The restrictions, however, shall not apply where
the animals are kept on premises owned by dog food manufacturers. (‘88 Code, §
3.102)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep any hog or hogs or pig or pigs, within
the city limits, nor shall it be lawful to slaughter or butcher any animal
within the corporate limits. Slaughtering or butchering animals may be carried
on within the corporate limits in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the state Board of Health, when authorized by the City Council. (‘88 Code, §
3.103)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or
molest in any way any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests. If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in numbers in
a particular locality so that they constitute a menace to health or property in
the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, the health
authorities shall meet with the representatives of the Audubon Society, bird
club, garden club or humane society or as many of the clubs as are found to
exist in the city, after having given at least three days actual notice of the
time and place of the meeting, to the representatives of the clubs. If, as a
result of the meeting, no satisfactory alternative is found to abate the
nuisance, the birds may by destroyed in numbers and in a manner as is deemed
advisable by the health authorities under the supervision of the Police Chief.
(‘88 Code, § 3.104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 PET SHOPS.
   (A)   PET SHOP. Any retail establishment where companion animals are bought,
sold, exchanged, or offered for sale or exchange to the public, whether as the
primary purpose of the business or merely incidental to the operation of the
business.
   (B)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter, or give away, any
animal, fowl, or reptile that is less than eight weeks of age.
   (C)   No person shall sell, trade, barter, auction, lease, rent, give away,
or display for commercial purposes, any live pet, on any roadside, public
right-of-way, public property, commercial parking lot or sidewalk, or at any
flea market, fair, or carnival.
   (D)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, fowl, reptile or bird
as a prize for, or as an inducement to enter any contest, game or other
competition, or as an inducement to enter a place of amusement or to enter into
any business agreement whereby the offer is for the purpose of attracting
trade.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any pet shop, as defined herein, to offer for
sale a dog or cat. A pet shop may provide space to an animal shelter or an
animal rescue organization, as defined herein, to offer to the public dogs or
cats for a nominal adoption fee, provided that the pet shop shall not have any
ownership interest in the animals offered and shall not receive any fee for
providing space or for the adoption of any of the animals.
   (F)   Any person convicted under any local ordinance or state statute
regarding animal cruelty or maltreatment is prohibited from selling any animal
or offering any animal for sale in the county.
(Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-22)
§ 91.05 COMMUNITY CATS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      COMMUNITY CAT. Any free-roaming cat, which may or may not be feral, with
a caretaker known or unknown. COMMUNITY CATS shall be distinguished from other
cats through their ear-tip and sterilization. These cats are exempt from stray
and at-large provisions of this subchapter.
      EAR-TIPPING/EAR-TIPPED. The straight line cutting of the tip of one ear
of a cat, while the cat is anesthetized to indicate the cat has been sterilized
and vaccinated. The left ear is the universally accepted practice; although in
the past a cat’s right ear may have been tipped.
   (B)   Community cats shall be allowed in the city as long as all of the
following requirements are met:
      (1)   Cat must be spayed or neutered.
      (2)   Cat must be vaccinated for rabies.
      (3)   Cat must be ear-tipped.
   (C)   A person caring for community cats shall not be considered the owner
of those cats.
   (D)   Eligible community cats may be sterilized, vaccinated, ear-tipped and
returned to the location where they were found at the discretion of the animal
shelter personnel.
   (E)   The Human Society of Marlboro County shall be the designated shelter
and will develop rules and regulations for the program.
(Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-22)
SPECIFIC DOG REGULATIONS
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. That shelter which will keep a non-aquatic animal dry, out
of the direct path of winds, out of direct sun, and at a temperature that is
healthful for the animal. The containment area for the animal shall be free of
accumulated waste and debris so that the animal shall be free to walk or lie
down without coming in contact with waste or debris; shall be free of
unsanitary conditions which results in offensive odors or is dangerous to the
animal or to public health, welfare or safety; and shall be free of ticks and
fleas. A suitable method of drainage shall be provided to rapidly eliminate any
excess water or moisture. Aquatic and semi-aquatic animals shall have an
adequate amount of clean water in which to move. For animals outside and
unattended as defined herein, adequate shelter shall meet the following minimum
standards:
      (1)   The shelter shall be a waterproof and wind-proof structure of
suitable size to accommodate the animal and allow retention of body heat. It
shall be made of durable material with a solid, waterproof floor raised at
least three inches from the ground. A shelter shall not be constructed of metal
or any material that readily conducts heat or cold.
      (2)   The structure must have a windbreak at the entrance. The structure
shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable, clean bedding
material to provide insulation and protection against cold and dampness and
promote retention of body heat.
      (3)   All animals must be afforded one or more separate areas of shade
large enough to accommodate the entire body of the animal at one time to ensure
protection from the direct rays of the sun. A doghouse is inadequate protection
from the sun.
   DOG OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering,
feeding, harboring or taking care of any dog. (‘88 Code, § 3.201)
   RUNNING AT LARGE. All dogs found upon any of the public streets, highways or
public places or upon private property owned by persons other than the owner or
custodian of the dog shall be deemed to be running loose or to be at large
within the meaning of this subchapter. (‘88 Code, § 3.202)
(Am. Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-22)
§ 91.16 HUMANE TETHERING.
   It shall be illegal for a person to allow a dog to be tethered:
   (A)   By a tether less than ten feet in length or less than four times the
length of the dog’s body from tip of the nose to the base of the tail,
whichever is greater;
   (B)   By a tether the length of which allows the dog to cross the property
line of the property on which it is tethered;
   (C)   By a tether that does not have a swivel at both ends;
   (D)   Using a logging chain, tow chain, or other tether that exceeds 1/10 of
the dog’s body weight or which causes injury to the dog because of the material
of which it is made or because of the size or weight of the tether;
   (E)   By attaching the tether to the dog by a collar or harness that is made
of material other than nylon or leather or that is ill-fitting;
   (F)   By using a trolley or running line system that is less than eight feet
in length and more than seven feet above ground;
   (G)   In an area likely to cause injury or pain to the dog because of
entanglement or because of surrounding structures.
   (H)   On any property lacking an occupied dwelling;
   (I)   Beyond the direct sight and sound of the owner or caretaker for more
than 15 minutes without continuous access to clean, potable water and adequate
shelter; or
   (J)   If the dog is less than six months old.
(Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-22)
§ 91.17 [RESERVED.]
§ 91.18 NUISANCES; FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to keep or have within the city a dog
that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at, attacks or barks at
pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicles or turns over garbage pails or damages
gardens, flowers or vegetables or conducts itself so as to be a public
nuisance. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for a dog owner to permit a female
dog to run at large while in heat.
(‘88 Code, § 3.209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 BARKING DOGS; NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to keep or have within the city a dog
that habitually or repeatedly barks in a manner or to the extent that it is a
public nuisance.
(‘88 Code, § 3.210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.20 RESTRAINT, DISPOSAL OF FECAL MATERIAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any
dog shall keep the dog exclusively upon his own premises secured by a fence no
smaller than ten feet by ten feet for one dog, and an increase of 25 square
feet for each additional dog giving the dog adequate space for exercise and
without at any time being fastened, chained or tied while such dog is on the
owner’s own property. The dog may be off the premises if it is under direct
control of a responsible person. Direct control shall be affected only by
leash. The requirements of this section are not altered by whether or not a dog
is vicious or uninoculated.
(‘88 Code, § 3.211) (Am. Ord. 14-09-01, passed 9-16-14)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to fail to promptly remove and properly dispose
of all feces left by the animal on any public property or any private property
not owned by the owner. Failure to remove excreta and improper disposal of
fecal matter are deemed unlawful conduct by the owner so as to make the animal
a nuisance animal.
(Am. Ord. 07-11-01, passed 11-20-07; Am. Ord. passed 9-16-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 CARE REQUIRED; FIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of a dog to fail to
provide it with sufficient good and wholesome food, water, proper shelter,
protection from weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering and
with humane care and treatment.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to beat, ill-treat, torment
or otherwise abuse any dog or cause or permit any dog fight.
   (C)   An animal control officer shall issue a summons if there is probable
cause to believe that a violation of any provision of this section has been
violated, including the following violations:
      (1)   Abandonment of an animal, or any act to cause an animal to be
abandoned;
      (2)   Expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed with food or
not, so that the same shall reasonably be expected to be eaten by any animal,
fish, bird, fowl, or reptile;
      (3)   Cruelly beat, ill-treat, torment, torture, overload, overwork, or
otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate, or permit, any fight, or other
combat between animals, or animals and humans;
      (4)   Performing an operation to crop, notch, or split any animals ear or
tail without a valid license to practice veterinary medicine in South Carolina;
      (5)   Failure to provide treatment or denial of treatment for any
diseased, sick or injured animal;
      (6)   Failure to provide or denial of necessary sustenance, such as food
in an inadequate amount to sustain flesh or permit normal growth, an inadequate
amount of clean water, or water that is sour, filthy or spoiled;
      (7)   Failure to remove excrement and keep shelter or confinement area
clean and odor free;
      (8)   Failure to provide or denial of shelter for any animal in any
manner without shading same from the sun, any direct light, heat or cold and
providing adequate ventilation for their use;
      (9)   Selling, offering for sale, bartering, or giving away, any animal
which is not at least eight weeks of age;
      (10)   Leaving a dog outside unattended during extreme weather.
      (11)   Locking animal in vehicle unattended when the officer’s opinion is
that the animal is in distress.
(‘88 Code, § 3.214) (Am. Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 INJURING DOGS; NOTICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring a dog, by running over or into
same or coming into contact with same with an automobile, motorcycle, bicycle
or other vehicle, to fail to notify immediately the owner of the dog or the
Police Department.
(‘88 Code, § 3.215) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.23 BITING; PROCEDURE.
   Any dog which has ever bitten any person without provocation so as to break
the skin, to the knowledge of the person owning, keeping, having charge of,
sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking care of the dog, must be kept in a
secure enclosure or be accompanied by a person who, by means of a leash, has
the dog firmly under control at all times.
(‘88 Code, § 3.216) (Am. Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.24 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department and any other person or persons designated by
the City Council shall be charged with the responsibility of:
      (1)   Cooperating with the proper officers of the county and assisting in
the enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to dogs and especially
with regard to the confinement or leashing of vicious dogs;
      (2)   Investigating all complaints with regard to dogs;
      (3)   Making canvasses of the city, including the homes in the city as it
deems necessary, for the purpose of ascertaining that all dogs are duly and
properly licensed and vaccinated against rabies;
      (4)   Enforcing all state laws and all ordinances enacted by the city for
the care, control and custody of dogs;
      (5)   Supervising and being in charge of a facility where dogs may be
impounded; and
      (6)   Receiving applications for and issuing licenses for dogs.
(‘88 Code, § 3.217)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way with any
police officer or employee of the city engaged in seizing or impounding any dog
under authority of this subchapter. (‘88 Code, § 3.218)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.25 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Police officers or other persons designated by the city shall impound
any dog running at large in violation of this subchapter. Any vicious dog not
on a leash, any uninoculated dog, any dog not wearing a current tag issued by
the city and any dog, regardless of conditions, which is beyond the premises of
its owner and not under direct control of a responsible person, shall be deemed
at large in violation of this subchapter and subject to being impounded. (‘88
Code, § 3.212)
   (B)   (1)   When a dog is impounded under the provisions of this subchapter,
a notice forthwith shall be posted in a conspicuous place on a bulletin board
at the Police Department. The notice shall contain a general description of the
impounded dog, showing breed, sex, color and markings. It shall designate the
day upon which the described dog shall be sold or otherwise disposed of unless
sooner claimed and redeemed. The claim or redemption by the owner or custodian
of the described dog shall be made within seven days of the date notice is
posted.
      (2)   Any dog not redeemed from impoundment within the seven-day period,
pursuant to this section, shall be sold or otherwise disposed of in the
discretion of the Police Chief.
      (3)   Funds received from the redemption of impounded dogs shall be
turned over to the City Administrator who shall duly account for same.
   (C)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not
claimed by its owner within five calendar days becomes the property of animal
shelter and may be humanely destroyed, transferred to a rescue, or placed for
adoption.
   (D)   Impoundment without proper care due to incapacity or involuntary
absence of owner. Whenever the animal control officer finds that any animal is
or will be without proper care because of injury, illness, incarceration or
other involuntary absence of the person responsible for the care of such
animal, the animal control officer may impound such animal until reclaimed by
its owner. The owner must pay the applicable fees in the same manner, as any
other owner would in order to redeem an impounded animal prior to the release
of such animal by the division. If the owner cannot or does not pay fees within
five calendar days of impoundment, the animal shelter may move before the court
for an order granting it ownership of the animal for adoption or other humane
disposition.
   (E)   If an owner redeeming a pet cannot show proof of a current rabies
inoculation for the pet being held, the owner shall be required to bring proof
of inoculation within five business days.
(‘88 Code, § 3.213) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 22-10-01, passed 10-18-
22)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy; title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Application of prohibitions
   
92.04   Unlawful discrimination
   
92.05   Discrimination in financing
   
92.06   Discrimination in brokerage services
   
92.07   Exemptions
   
92.08   Interference, coercion or intimidation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY; TITLE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide, within
constitutional limitations, for fair housing throughout the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known as the “Fair Housing Chapter.”
(‘88 Code, § 5.301)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed and intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant, for
a consideration, the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(‘88 Code, § 5.302)
§ 92.03 APPLICATION OF PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
92.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in §
92.04 shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
92.04, other than division (C), shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided
the private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses
at any one time. In the case of the sale of any single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of the sale or
who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the
exemption granted by this division shall apply only with respect to one sale
within any 24-month period, provided the bona fide private individual owner
does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf,
under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three single-
family houses at any one time.
         (b)   The sale or rental of any single-family house shall be excepted
for the application of this section only if the house is sold or rented without
the use, in any manner, of the sales or rental facilities or the sales or
rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or of the
facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or renting
dwellings or of any employee or agent of any broker, agent, salesman or person
and, further, without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C).
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other professional assistance
necessary to perfect or transfer a title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if he has, within the preceding
12 months:
      (1)   Participated as principal in three or more transactions involving
the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities, or sales or rental services, in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or the 12
months notwithstanding; or
      (2)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(‘88 Code, § 5.303)
§ 92.04 UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATION.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and
92.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion or
national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published,
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any
preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when the dwelling is, in fact, so available; and
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion
or national origin.
(‘88 Code, § 5.304) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN FINANCING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, savings and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise, whose business
consists in whole, or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans,
to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor, for
the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of the loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national origin of the
person or of any person associated with him in connection with the loan or
other financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners, lessees,
tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan
or other financial assistance is to be made or given. Nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
92.03(B).
(‘88 Code, § 5.305) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of the access, membership or participation on account of
race, religion or national origin.
(‘88 Code, § 5.306) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings
which it owns or operates, for other than a commercial purpose, to persons of
the same religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless membership
in the religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor
shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not, in fact, open to
the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes, provides
lodgings which it owns or operates, for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members or for giving
preference to its members.
(‘88 Code, § 5.307)
§ 92.08 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this chapter.
(‘88 Code, § 5.308) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
$200 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both.
(‘88 Code, § 5.310)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Fire district established
   
93.02   Use of fire equipment
   
93.03   Driving over fire hose
   
93.04   Fire hydrants
   
93.05   Burning of outdoor rubbish
   
93.06   Burning of construction or demolition debris
   
93.07   Bonfires
   
93.08   Accumulations
   
93.09   Damage to buildings
   
93.10   Smoking on platforms with combustibles; public buildings
   
93.11   Police at fires; prohibited activities
   
93.12   Explosives
   
93.13   Fire Department cost recovery
Fireworks
   
93.35   Fireworks prohibited
   
93.36   Public displays; permit required
   
93.37   Permissible fireworks for displays
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§
32.30 through
32.33
   Fires and fireworks, see §
133.09
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 FIRE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Definition. The official fire district for the city shall be the area
of the Central Business District zoned C-1. A map showing the boundaries of the
Fire District shall be maintained in the offices of the Fire Chief and the
Building Official.
      (1)   The storage of flammable and combustible liquids in above-ground
storage is prohibited within the limits of the Fire District.
      (2)   Exceptions: Two single portable tanks of 660 gallons or less of
class II or class III combustible liquid are allowed.
(S.C. Code 39-41-260)
   (B)   Purpose. The fire district established herein is for the purpose of
limiting the spread of fire and reducing loss of life and property damage in an
area of dense construction, high occupancy and high fuel loads.
   (C)   Laws and standards. The fire district established herein shall be
subject to:
      (1)   The provisions of
Chapter 152 applying to the C-1 district;
      (2)   The provisions of International Building Code Appendix D, contained
in the current edition and all updates and revisions thereof shall govern the
type and extent of construction in the district; and
      (3)   S.C. Code § 39-41-260, as amended, relating to the above-ground
storage of petroleum products.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Fire Chief or his designee shall enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 97-11-01, passed 11-18-97; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 93.02 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to use, borrow or damage
any equipment of the Fire Department without the express consent of the Fire
Chief. “Equipment” shall mean all vehicles, firefighting apparatus, supplies,
facilities or other material belonging to the Fire Department.
(‘88 Code, § 9.208) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without permission of the Fire Chief,
to drive a vehicle of any description over or across a fire hose stretched or
laid upon the ground for use at a fire or for any other lawful purpose of the
Fire Department.
(‘88 Code, § 9.209) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see S.C. Code § 56-5-3850
§ 93.04 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open or otherwise tamper
with a fire hydrant.
(‘88 Code, § 9.210) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 BURNING OF OUTDOOR RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any leaves, grass, tree limbs, rubbish,
woodlands, land under development, or land used for agricultural purposes that
are inside the corporate limits.
§ 93.06 BURNING OF CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful during the construction or demolition of buildings or
structures no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the
premises or in the vicinity inside the corporate limits (S.C. Department of
Health and Environmental Control Regulation 61-62.2).
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
§ 93.07 BONFIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle or maintain any bonfire or
authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained without a permit from the
Fire Department.
§ 93.08 ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant, occupant, person
possessing, or any other person, to permit, allow or cause any condition,
accumulation, growth, structure or other matter to exist upon any lot, building
or premises so as to constitute or create a fire hazard or to increase the
menace of fire.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, or his authorized agents, to
notify any person of a violation of this section and to suggest proper action
or precautions.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, within five days of the notice, to
eliminate the fire hazard shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(‘88 Code, § 9.212) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 DAMAGE TO BUILDINGS.
   If an existing building is damaged by fire or otherwise in excess of 50% of
its then physical value, the building shall be removed.
(‘88 Code, § 9.213)
§ 93.10 SMOKING ON PLATFORMS WITH COMBUSTIBLES; PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to smoke cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any
form or to strike matches on or in the immediate vicinity of any platform on
which there is stored cotton, resin or any combustible items or merchandise of
any kind.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to smoke in any public building or in any theater
or public building where people have assembled, including dressing rooms,
property rooms and all other apartments connected therewith.
(‘88 Code, § 9.214) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 POLICE AT FIRES; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Police officers shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Immediately upon their arrival at the scene of a fire, and subject to
availability of personnel, they may station one police officer at each end of
the block wherein the fire occurs. They may require motor vehicles or other
vehicles parked within the block to be moved immediately. (‘88 Code, § 9.202)
   (B)   All motor equipment of the Fire Department, Police Department and the
vehicles of firefighters shall have the right-of-way over all other vehicles
when responding to an alarm. (‘88 Code, § 9.203)
   (C)   No person shall park or cause any obstruction to fire equipment at an
entrance to the fire station nor park within 15 feet of any fire hydrant. It
shall be unlawful to interfere with or obstruct the activities of any member of
the Fire Department who is acting in the line of duty at or proceeding to a
fire. (‘88 Code, § 9.204)
   (D)   (1)   No driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business,
shall follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer
than 500 feet or drive into or park a vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to an alarm. (S.C. Code § 56-5-1960)
      (2)   Bystanders shall stay a safe distance away.
(‘88 Code, § 9.205)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, who is not a member of the Fire
Department, to ride upon any fire truck without permission from the Fire Chief.
(‘88 Code, § 9.206)
   (F)   (1)   Failure to obey any lawful order of any official of the Fire or
Police Department at the scene of any emergency shall constitute a violation of
this chapter. (‘88 Code, § 9.207)
      (2)   No person or persons shall interfere or otherwise deter Fire
Department personnel by resistance, obstruction or assault in the performance
of their assigned duties at the scene of any emergency. (S.C. Code § 16-3-630)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking restrictions, see S.C. Code § 56-6-2530
§ 93.12 EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or explode at any time within
the corporate limits any dynamite or other explosive substances or compounds
without a permit from the Fire Chief.
(S.C. Code § 23-35-170)
§ 93.13 FIRE DEPARTMENT COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the City of
Bennettsville Fire Department Cost Recovery Program.
   (B)   General purpose. This section is adopted in order to provide
reimbursement to the city Fire Department for a portion of the costs incurred
by the city for certain Fire Department provided.
   (C)   Fee collection authorized. The owner or occupant of a structure,
vehicle, or property to which the Fire Department or other department of the
service area provides fire suppression, emergency management services, vehicle
extrication, hazardous material mitigation, emergency medical care, or other
Fire Department services, (collectively referred to in this section as
“Emergency Response Services”) or any person or entity causing the need for the
fire or Fire Department to respond and/or provide any emergency response
service (the “Responsible Party”) shall pay the cost of such service.
Cost recovery fees are set forth in Exhibit A, attached to Ord. 22-05-02 and
are hereby found to not exceed the city’s actual expense in providing such
emergency response services. The fees enacted herein apply to any services
rendered by any city department to whatever property or person, whether within
the city or if requested by any other entity, or if supplied by the city
pursuant to any inter-local cooperation agreement.
   (D)   Fees and charges. The cost recovery fees will be collected in the
amounts found in Exhibit A, attached to Ord. 22-05-02, which may be revised
periodically by the adoption of a resolution by the City Council. The fees are
separate and apart from any other budgetary obligations. The fees will be
placed in a revolving account that will roll over from one fiscal budget year
to the next and made available for purchase, repair, replacement and update of
training and training equipment and training expenses for the full time and
volunteer members of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 22-05-02, passed 5-17-22)
FIREWORKS
§ 93.35 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, shoot, discharge any
fireworks of any description within the corporate limits. (S.C. Code § 23-35-
150) (‘88 Code, § 9.501)
   (B)   The term “fireworks” shall not include toy paper pistol caps which
contain less than 0.25 grains of explosive compounds, toy pistols, toy canes,
toy guns or other devices using paper caps and the sale and use of these items
shall be permitted at all times. (S.C. Code § 23-35-30) (‘88 Code, § 9.502)
(Am. Ord. passed 1-17-17)
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the manufacture, storage, sale
or use of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other public
or private transportation; to illumination devices for photographic use; to
military or naval forces; to peace officers; to the sale or use of blank
cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or athletic events nor as applying to the
transportation or use of fireworks solely for agricultural purposes. (S.C. Code
§ 23-35-40) (‘88 Code, § 9.503)
(Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 PUBLIC DISPLAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to hold a public display of fireworks shall first secure
from the Fire Chief a written permit to hold the display at least ten days
prior to the date of the proposed display. No permit shall be issued to allow
any public display of fireworks at any location whereby, in the judgment of the
Fire Chief, life or property may be endangered.
(S.C. Code § 23-35-60) (‘88 Code, § 9.504)
§ 93.37 PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS FOR DISPLAYS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit the shipping,
sale, possession and use of fireworks for public displays. The items of
fireworks which are to be used for public display only and which are otherwise
prohibited for sale and use shall include display shells designed to be fired
from mortars and display set pieces of fireworks classified by the regulations
of the S.C. Department of Labor, Licensing, and Regulations, State Board of
Pyrotechnic Safety “Class B Fireworks” and shall not include items of
commercial fireworks as cherry bombs, tubular salutes, repeating bombs, aerial
bombs and torpedoes.
(‘88 Code, § 9.505) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12)
Statutory reference:
   Fireworks and explosives, see S.C. Code Title 23
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or
fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation
of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with an order as affirmed or
modified by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within
the time fixed herein, shall, severally for each and every violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a
fine of not less than $10, nor more than $200 or by imprisonment for not less
than ten days nor more than 30 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment. The
imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue. All persons shall be required to correct or remedy the
violations or defects within a reasonable time. When not otherwise specified,
each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (2)   The application for the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(‘88 Code, § 9.105)
   (C)   The penalty for a violation of §
93.35 shall be a misdemeanor. (‘88 Code, § 9.501)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
94.01   County Board of Health
   
94.02   Definition
   
94.03   Abatement of public nuisances
   
94.04   Weeds prohibited
   
94.05   Accumulation of junk and trash
   
94.06   Upkeep of property
   
94.07   Suitable toilet facilities
   
94.08   Notice to remove to remedy
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 91
   Nuisances, see §
134.06
§ 94.01 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Unless and until a Board of Health is appointed by Council, health matters,
generally, shall be referred to the County Board of Health.
(‘88 Code, § 10.101)
§ 94.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC NUISANCES.  Any act of any person, firm or corporation whereby the
health or life of any individual may be endangered, injured or impaired, or
which causes any disease is hereby declared a nuisance. It shall be unlawful
for any owner, occupant or agent of lots or premises, whether occupied or
vacant, within the corporate limits to permit the property to become unsanitary
by allowing any offensive matter or thing upon the lot or premises which may be
detrimental to health, or to permit any trash, rubbish, waste, storage or ice
boxes, refrigerators, stoves, refuse, manure, straw, hay or thing to accumulate
and remain upon the premises, or to throw, deposit or cause to be thrown or
deposited upon any vacant lot or premises the thing which may endanger, injure
or damage another’s health or property.
(‘88 Code, § 10.201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   The City Council may declare as nuisances the things, the existence of
which may be deemed unhealthy or harmful to the citizens, and the nuisances
shall be abated pursuant to directions from the Council. (‘88 Code, § 10.202)
   (B)   Any person refusing or neglecting to abate a nuisance, after having
been directed to do so, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (‘88 Code, § 10.203)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow or permit weeds and grass to grow upon his improved
premises within the corporate limits uncut so as to render the premises
unsightly or unhealthy from the growth and accumulation of the grass, weeds and
vegetable matter thereon.
(‘88 Code, § 10.204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 ACCUMULATION OF JUNK AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful to accumulate or allow to accumulate on any premises or
in the rear of any store, factory or residence, old fixtures, junk, trash or
any other material which tends to keep the premises wet, exclude the sun and
catch and favor the accumulation of filth.
(‘88 Code, § 10.205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 UPKEEP OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Vacant lots. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to maintain or to permit to be maintained any premises, including vacant lots
or land, upon which grass, weeds, undergrowth, trash, garbage, offal, stagnant
water, building materials, glass, wood or other matter deleterious to good
health and public sanitation which is permitted or caused to accumulate in any
manner which is or may become a nuisance causing injury to the health or
welfare of the residents or the public in the vicinity or causing injury to
neighboring property. (‘88 Code, § 10.401)
   (B)   Requirement for owner to maintain lots. It is unlawful for the owner
of property to fail to cut grass, weeds, and other overgrown vegetation on
property when the grass, weeds, or other overgrown vegetation is of a greater
height than one foot on the average, or to permit the property to serve as a
breeding place for trash and litter, or as a fire hazard, any one of such
situations is declared to be a nuisance. It is the duty of the owner and/or
occupant to cut and remove all grass, weeds, and other overgrown vegetation as
often as necessary to comply with the provisions of this code. Vacant lots
shall be cut as many times as needed to meet the requirement of less than one
foot of height on average. Heavily wooded lots where equipment cannot maneuver
on the lot because of density of the area shall be trimmed within 100 feet from
the centerline of the street and adjacent improved property and kept free of
liter. If the Code Enforcement Officer should find the premises or lot in a
condition tending to injure the public health, safety or wellness, he shall
issue a written notice directed to the owner requiring them within a reasonable
and specified time to clear the premises or lot in order to abate the nuisance.
(‘88 Code, § 10.402)
   (C)   City to clean; costs to be paid by owner. Should any property owner
fail to keep the property cleared, after due notice thereof to do so, the Code
Enforcement Officer may cause the property to be kept cleared and in a sanitary
condition for health purposes or cleared for fire prevention. If this is not
completed within the ten-day period, the city will have the property cleaned
and a minimum charge of $300 or the actual cost whichever is greater will be
billed directly to the property owner. (‘88 Code, § 10.403)
(S.C. Code § 5-7-80) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 017-11-02, passed 11-
21-17; Am. Ord. 22-10-02, passed 10-18-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   Pit privy defined; declared unlawful.
      (1)   The term “pit privy,” as used in this section shall mean a building
which is not connected to a sewer and used for affording privacy while in the
act of urination or defecation.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to construct, erect,
install, maintain or permit to remain any pit privy on any property within the
corporate limits.
(S.C. Code § 44-55-210) (‘88 Code, § 10.501)
   (B)   Building contracts to provide for waste disposal. All building
contracts for the erection of structures anticipated for human occupancy shall
provide for adequate and sanitary waste disposal. The contract shall provide
for the facilities, and plans shall state the proposed method of disposal. (‘88
Code, § 10.502)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 NOTICE TO OWNER TO REMOVE OR REMEDY.
   (A)   Whenever any condition described in this chapter is found to exist on
any premises, the owner of the premises shall be notified by the Clerk in
writing to correct the condition within ten days after the notice. It shall be
unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the notice. (‘88 Code, § 10.206)
   (B)   The notice shall be served on the owner to whom it is directed or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner at his last
known post office address. In the event personal service cannot be made and the
owner’s address is unknown, the notice shall be given by publication at lease
two times within 15 consecutive days in a local newspaper of general
circulation. (‘88 Code, § 10.207)
   (C)   (1)   In the event the owner of any lot or premises, upon which a
condition described in this chapter exists, fails to remedy the condition
within ten days after notice to do so is given, the city may do the work or
make the improvements as are necessary to correct, remedy or remove the
condition, or cause the same to be done, pay and charge the expenses incurred
thereby to the owner of the lot.
      (2)   The doing of the work shall not relieve the person from prosecution
for failure to comply with the notice. The expenses shall be assessed against
the real estate upon which the work was done or the improvements made but shall
be reasonable.
      (3)   The owner shall have the right of appeal to Council.
(‘88 Code, § 10.208)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
95.01   Obstructions
   
95.02   Placing tables, glass and the like on streets
   
95.03   Rain water damage prevention
   
95.04   Projections over sidewalks
   
95.05   Games and other activities prohibited
   
95.06   Excavations
§ 95.01 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any street or sidewalk in
the city by making excavations therein or by placing thereon to remain standing
any vehicle or by piling thereon or otherwise placing any timber, lumber,
bricks, dirt or other materials, unless permission is first obtained, subject
to the rules and regulations as may be prescribed. It shall not be lawful for
any person to obstruct the sidewalks or the streets of the city by placing
thereon merchandise, barrels, boxes, as well as benches, planters, and the like
after business hours and without a sidewalk encroachment permit issued each
year along with business license renewals.
(‘88 Code, § 15.101) (Am. Ord. 21-03-01, passed 3-16-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 PLACING TABLES, GLASS AND THE LIKE ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any stand,
booth, table or other thing upon any sidewalk or street of the city, for the
purpose of selling or offering for sale any goods, wares, merchandise, fruit,
vegetables, fish, meats or other commodities except with an approved sidewalk
encroachment permit and proof of liability insurance as follows: (‘88 Code, §
15.102)
      (1)   Sidewalk encroachment permit fee shall be $50 for mechandise,
tables, and chairs. Approved planters are exempt from payment.
      (2)   Proof of insurance: a minimum of $600,000 per occurrence for
property damage and $1,000,000 for bodily injury.
      (3)   Permitter/organization hereby shall assume all risks incidental to
or in connection with the permitted activity and shall be solely responsible
for damages, or injury, of any nature to person or property, directly or
indirectly in connection with the permitted activity or conduct of permittee’s
operation.
      (4)   Permitter hereby expressly agrees to release the city of any
penalties resulting in violation of law, ordinance, or regulation affecting its
activity and from all claims, suits, property damage, or injuries directly or
indirectly arising out of or in connection with the permitted activity and
further agrees to release, hold harmless, and indemnify the city of all claims,
suits, or the conduct of its operation resulting from the negligence or
intentional acts or omission of permittee or its officers, agents, and
employees.
      (5)   A pedestrian clearance shall be five feet and all sale merchandise
shall be removed from the sidewalk after business hours, except for approved
benches, planters and/or outdoor dining sets.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure
any person, animal or vehicle upon the street.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
material or cause it to be removed.
      (3)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street
shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street
from the vehicle.
(‘88 Code, § 15.103) (Am. Ord. 21-03-01, passed 3-16-21; Am. Ord. 21-07-02,
passed 7-20-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 RAIN WATER DAMAGE PREVENTION.
   It shall be unlawful to build, construct, erect or maintain a house or
building of any description in the city in a manner that rainwater may flow
from the roof, eaves, cornices, gutters or other parts thereof, down upon any
sidewalk so as to cause holes, depressions, unevenness, gullies or other
defects or damage to the sidewalk.
(‘88 Code, § 15.104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 PROJECTIONS OVER SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or keep on his or her
premises any gate or door which, in opening, shall extend or swing outwardly
upon or over a city sidewalk. (‘88 Code, § 15.105)
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful to have erected or to maintain in
the city any street awning, canopy, sign or any thing of any kind, projecting
over or across the sidewalk of any of the streets, unless the framework upon
which the awning, canopy, sign or other thing is elevated shall be above the
sidewalk at least seven feet, and unless the fringe or cloth cover or other
material used is elevated at least six feet above the level of the sidewalk.
All projections shall be securely fastened with adequate wires, arms and braces
so as to protect the public. This prohibition is intended to apply to all
awnings or other things of that character now in use as well as to those that
may hereafter be constructed. (‘88 Code, § 15.106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 GAMES AND OTHER ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to play baseball or any other games, fly kites, engage
in throwing stones, brick bats, shoot fireworks, firearms or air guns of any
kind or engage in skating on the public square or any street within the
corporate limits of the city. This section shall not apply to skating on
sidewalks in a careful manner or on the streets as may be designated for
skating.
(‘88 Code, § 15.107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut any paved streets within
the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining written permission.
(‘88 Code, § 15.108)
   (B)   A certified check in an amount to be fixed by the Mayor, shall be
required and deposited with the Mayor for the purpose of indemnifying the city
against any loss or damages in repairing street cuts. The certified check shall
be cashed upon the nonpayment of a bill when rendered for the repairing of
damages. Any surplus remaining after cashing the check shall be accounted for
to the payer. (‘88 Code, § 15.109)
   (C)   Any plumber, inspector, their agents and employees or any other
persons who shall open or cut any ditch in or across any sidewalk or drain in
the city, shall be allowed 48 hours in which to place any water or sewer pipe
from the time they begin to cut the ditch, and the ditch shall be filled up and
closed within 48 hours from the time they begin to cut the ditch. (‘88 Code, §
15.110)
   (D)   In all cases where the pavement has been cut, no backfilling of
trenches shall be done except in the presence of the Mayor or his
representative. Any person, in backfilling trenches where pavement has been
cut, shall use dry earth free from stones, which shall be spread in layers not
over four inches thick, and rammed thoroughly with at least two men ramming to
each man shoveling, and more, if necessary, if so deemed by the Mayor or his
representative. This backfilling shall be brought up to not less that eight
inches of the finished surface of the pavement. The adjoining concrete base on
each side of the ditch shall be cut to an angle of 60 degrees to the
horizontal, so as to form a shoulder of the new concrete base to rest upon.
Great care shall be taken not to allow any broken pieces of old concrete to
remain in the shoulder so formed. Upon the rammed subgrade, a six inch course
of 1-3-6 mixed concrete shall be placed, the concrete to be well protected from
traffic for at least 24 hours or until it has set sufficiently to receive the
two inch asphalt top, brick, beligina, block or any other kind of pavement
which the city is currently using. (‘88 Code, § 15.111)
   (E)   All plumbers, inspectors, their agents or employees or other persons
shall be required to replace a street, sidewalk or drain in the same condition
that they were in before they were opened or cut for the purpose of water and
sewer. In other words, the person making the excavation shall fill or cause to
be filled the cut in or ditch with dirt, water and tamp the same until the
street, sidewalk or drains shall be in as good condition as they were in before
being cut or ditched. (‘88 Code, § 15.112)
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to allow any trench, ditch or excavation in any
street, sidewalk or public place of the city to remain open between sunset and
sunrise, unless the trench ditch or excavation has a sufficient number of
lights properly displayed around it as danger signals to prevent accidents to
persons or property. (‘88 Code, § 15.113)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Public tree care
   
96.03   Tree topping
   
96.04   Pruning; clearances
   
96.05   Dead or diseased tree removal
   
96.06   Removal of trees; permit required
   
96.07   Protection of trees
   
96.08   Removal of stumps
   
96.09   Interference prohibited
   
96.10   Council review
City Tree Ordinance
   
96.20   Title; purpose
   
96.21   Objectives
   
96.22   Benefits of trees
   
96.23   Applicability
   
96.24   Administration
   
96.25   Definitions
   
96.26   Tree Committee
   
96.27   Tree City USA
   
96.28   Tree inventory
   
96.29   Annual work plan
   
96.30   Public tree maintenance standards
   
96.31   Damage to public trees
   
96.32   Conflict of provisions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
(‘88 Code, § 15.201)
§ 96.02 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds. The city may
remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in
an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements or is
affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. This section shall
not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners.
(‘88 Code, § 15.207)
§ 96.03 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful, as a normal practice, for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
“Topping” is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to a degree as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this section at the
discretion of the city.
(‘88 Code, § 15.208) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 PRUNING; CLEARANCES.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way shall prune
the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any street
lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be
a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. The
owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed
limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city may
prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper
spread of light along the street from a street light or interferes with
visibility of any traffic-control device or sign.
(‘88 Code, § 15.209) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
   The city may cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
property, when the trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor
insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to other trees within
the city. The city shall notify in writing the owners of the trees. Removal
shall be effected by the owners at their own expense within 60 days after the
date of service of notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. In the
event of failure of owners to comply with the provisions, the city shall have
the authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s
property tax notice.
(‘88 Code, § 15.210)
§ 96.06 REMOVAL OF TREES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter remove any street tree or park tree or cause
the removal by others, without first obtaining a written permit from the City
Council, which shall issue the permit if, in its judgment, the desired work is
necessary and the proposed method of workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory
nature.
   (B)   The designated authority shall review all requests for permits for the
removal of trees on public property. All recommendations shall be presented to
the City Council for its action.
   (C)   As a condition to any permit to remove any tree, the City Council may
require that the permittee plant another tree in place of the one removed.
   (D)   Every permit granted by the City Council shall describe the work to be
done and contain a date of expiration.
(‘88 Code, § 15.211) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   No person shall break, injure, damage, cut, carve, mutilate, kill or destroy
any street tree or park tree, or set fire or permit any fire to burn where the
fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of the tree.
(‘88 Code, § 15.212) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(‘88 Code, § 15.213)
§ 96.09 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees or
park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(‘88 Code, § 15.214) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 COUNCIL REVIEW.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the designated authority. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the designated authority to the City Council which may hear the matter
and make a final decision.
(‘88 Code, § 15.215)
CITY TREE ORDINANCE
§ 96.20 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Bennettsville
Tree Ordinance”.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish policies, regulations,
and standards for the management of public trees within the city limits. Public
tree management shall include, but not be limited to, tree establishment,
maintenance, protection, and removal.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.21 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of public tree management shall be to maximize the functional
benefits of trees while minimizing the costs of management. The objectives of
this subchapter shall be as listed below.
   (A)   Maintain the city’s tree canopy cover at or above its current level.
   (B)   Maintain and improve community character.
   (C)   Enhance the aesthetic appearance of the landscape.
   (D)   Provide direction and support to tree management.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.22 BENEFITS OF TREES.
   Trees provide many environmental, social, and economic benefits that
include, but are not limited to, the following.
   (A)   Trees produce oxygen and absorb carbon dioxide, thereby reducing air
pollution and improving air quality.
   (B)   Trees filter out dust, particulate matter, and airborne pollutants,
thereby improving air quality.
   (C)   Trees intercept precipitation, thereby reducing storm water runoff and
improving water quality.
   (D)   Tree roots hold the soil, thereby reducing soil erosion and
sedimentation and improving water quality.
   (E)   Trees provide shade and cooling and provide windbreaks, thereby
reducing energy usage and air conditioning and heating costs.
   (F)   Trees provide wildlife food and habitat.
   (G)   Trees buffer different land uses to eliminate or minimize nuisances
such as dust, litter, noise, glare, signs, and unsightly buildings or parking
areas.
   (H)   Trees improve public health by reducing stress, encouraging exercise,
calming traffic, decreasing illness recovery times, reducing crime and domestic
violence, and improving concentration.
   (I)   Trees attract residents, visitors, commerce and industry to the city
and increase the value and marketability of property.
   (J)   Trees beautify the city and protect and enhance the quality of life.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.23 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all public trees, as
described herein. Some provisions of this subchapter shall apply to trees
located on private property under specific and limited circumstances. PUBLIC
TREES shall include all trees growing on city owned property within the street
rights-of-way, in parks, in cemeteries, around public facilities, and on all
other city maintained properties within the city limits.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.24 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Administrator or his/her designee shall be responsible for the
administration of all provisions of this subchapter and for public tree
management. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the enforcement
of all provisions of this subchapter. The City Administrator and other
departments within the City of Bennettsville shall support the Public Works
Department and the Zoning Administrator in all tree management activities.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” as used in this subchapter is mandatory and not merely directory.
   CERTIFIED ARBORIST. An individual who has passed the International Society
of Arboriculture’s Certified Arborist examination, is designated as a Certified
Arborist by said organization, and maintains such designation through attending
at least 30 hours of qualifying continuing education within each three-year
period certification period.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. A more or less circular area on the ground equivalent to
a circle around the trunk with a radius equivalent to one foot for every one
inch in dbh.
   CROWN. The upper portion of a tree that contains the large scaffold limbs,
branches, twigs, and leaves.
   DBH. Diameter of the tree trunk at breast height, four and one-half feet
above the ground.
   DRIPLINE. A vertical line that extends down at the point of the greatest
extent of the tree’s branches.
   ESTABLISHMENT. The selection, placement, planting, and maintenance of new
trees in the landscape. The minimum period of time required for establishing
trees is generally considered to be three years.
   HAZARD TREE. A tree that is at risk for failure, either whole or in part,
with the part large enough to cause damage, and there exists within the falling
distance of the tree or tree part a target, such as people, buildings,
vehicles, or hardscape.
   MAINTENANCE. Routine, periodic, or occasional activities directed at
maintaining or improving a tree’s health and condition. Maintenance activities
include but are not limited to mulching, pruning, irrigation, fertilization,
pest control, cabling and bracing, and lightning protection system
installation.
   PROTECTION. The active or passive protection of a tree’s roots, trunk, and
crown for the purpose of avoiding damage to these living structures and
maintaining tree health and structural integrity.
   PRUNING. The deliberate removal of tree branches for a specific purpose,
i.e. young tree training, deadwood removal, utility line, traffic, or
pedestrian clearance, or correcting structural defects.
   REMOVAL. The cutting of a tree at ground line to remove the tree’s trunk and
crown. The tree stump and roots may or may not be removed along with the trunk
and crown.
   ROOTS. The below ground portion of a tree that includes large, woody support
roots and small, non-woody, fibrous “feeder” roots. Roots are generally located
within the top 18 inches of soil and extend out from the trunk two to three
times the width of the crown.
   TOPPING. The improper removal of tree limbs with cuts made between nodes;
also known as “tipping”, “heading”, and “shearing”.
   TREE. A woody perennial plant, generally with a single trunk but sometimes
with multiple trunks, with the potential to attain a mature size of at least
three inches in trunk diameter at four and one-half feet above the ground and a
height of at least 15 feet.
   TRUNK. The main woody stem of a tree that supports the crown and functions
in the transport of water, nutrients, and carbohydrates from the crown to the
roots and the roots to the crown.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.26 TREE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Membership. The city’s Board of Architectural Review shall serve as
the city’s Tree Committee without the necessity of forming a new city
committee.
   (B)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of three voting members. The Tree Board
shall take no action in the absence of a quorum.
   (C)   Compensation. Tree Board members shall serve without compensation. The
city, upon receipt of appropriate receipts and documentation, shall reimburse
reasonable expenses incurred by members and approved by the Committee.
   (D)   Term of office. The term of office for Tree Board members shall be at
the pleasure of the City Council. Members may serve no more than two terms.
   (E)   Officers, regulations, and proceedings. The Tree Board shall elect a
Chairman, Vice- Chairman, and Secretary. The Tree Board shall make its own
rules and regulations above and beyond those listed herein, shall keep minutes
of its meetings, shall keep records of its activities through correspondence,
photographs, articles, and written summaries.
      (1)   Chairman. The Chairman shall be elected by members of the Tree
Board and shall serve a term of one year. The Chairman shall be responsible for
setting each meeting’s agenda and for conducting the meetings.
      (2)   Vice-Chairman. The Vice-Chairman shall be elected by the members of
the Tree Board and shall serve a term of one year. In the absence of the
Chairman, the Vice-Chairman shall carry out the responsibilities of the
Chairman.
      (3)   Secretary. The Secretary shall be elected by the members of the
Tree Board and shall serve a term of one year.
   (F)   Responsibilities generally. The responsibilities of the Tree Board
shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Advise the city in all tree-related matters.
      (2)   Serve as a source of information about proper tree maintenance
techniques and community tree management policies.
      (3)   Make recommendations for public tree establishment, maintenance,
protection, and removal.
      (4)   Provide input to the Public Works Department for the development of
annual work plans and long range planning.
      (5)   Investigate and apply for donations and grant funding from public
and private sources for community forestry related projects.
      (6)   Provide regular community tree care educational programs and
information about the value of trees and proper tree maintenance to city staff
and citizens.
      (7)   Review the Tree Ordinance and provide recommendations for changes
to the Planning and Zoning Board and in turn to the Mayor and Town Council at
least every two years.
      (8)   Promote and support the Tree City USA program.
      (9)   Prepare an annual report to the City Council that includes the past
year’s accomplishments and planned activities.
   (G)   Meetings. The Tree Board shall meet at least quarterly. Special
meetings may be held in addition to the regular quarterly meetings. At least
seven days public notice shall be given in the local newspaper prior to each
regularly scheduled or special meeting. Members absent for more than three
consecutive meetings or more than one-third of the regularly scheduled meetings
per year may be replaced by recommendation of the Tree Board to the Mayor and
City Council. The Secretary shall advise the Mayor and City Council of any
members recommended to be replaced or any member that has resigned and ask the
Mayor and City Council to appoint a new member to fill the un-expired term of
the vacating member.
   (H)   Sub-committees. The Tree Board may, at its discretion, create sub-
committees to assist in conducting its business. The members of these
committees may or may not be members of the Tree Board.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.27 TREE CITY USA.
   The City of Bennettsville shall maintain Tree City USA status and submit an
application for this designation each year by December 15th to the South
Carolina Forestry Commission and the National Arbor Day Foundation. To maintain
eligibility for this program, the city shall meet the following criteria.
   (A)   Hold an annual Arbor Day Celebration on or around Arbor Day in South
Carolina, the first Friday in December. An Arbor Day Proclamation shall be
created and included as part of the celebration.
   (B)   Have a tree ordinance. The tree ordinance shall be reviewed, and
revised if necessary, at least once every two years.
   (C)   Have an active Tree Committee, appointed by the Mayor and Council,
responsible for advising the city on tree-related matters.
   (D)   Spend at least $2 per capita on public tree management, including
planning, education, tree establishment, maintenance, protection, and removal,
and any and all other maintenance or management activities.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.28 TREE INVENTORY.
   The Tree Committee or someone designated, shall maintain a current inventory
of all public trees. The inventory data gathered and recorded for each tree
shall include, at a minimum, the following information.
   (A)   Location (address or latitude/longitude coordinates).
   (B)   Tree species.
   (C)   DBH.
   (D)   Condition.
   (E)   Maintenance needs.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.29 ANNUAL WORK PLAN.
   The Public Works Department shall develop an annual work plan for the
management of public trees utilizing the tree inventory information and input
from the Tree Board. The work plan shall contain the following plans and
schedules.
   (A)   Tree planting.
   (B)   New tree maintenance including mulching, irrigation, and young tree
training pruning.
   (C)   Tree pruning.
   (D)   Tree mulching.
   (E)   Tree removal.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.30 PUBLIC TREE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The city shall have the right and responsibility to establish,
maintain, protect, and remove trees located on public property. Public tree
maintenance standards shall be developed and made a part of this subchapter and
shall include, at a minimum, standards for tree establishment, maintenance (to
include pruning, mulching, fertilization, irrigation, and pest control),
protection, and removal. These standards shall incorporate the current version
of the following professional standards from the American National Standards
Institute.
      (1)   ANSI Z60.1 American National Standard for Nursery Stock
      (2)   ANSI Z133.1 American National Standard for Agricultural Operations
- Pruning, Repairing, Maintaining, and Removing Trees, and Cutting Brush—Safety
Requirements
      (3)   ANSI A300 American National Standard for Tree Care Operations -
Trees, Brush, and Other Woody Plant Maintenance—Standard Practices
   (B)   Establishment.
      (1)   (a)   Species common name.
         (b)   Latin name.
         (c)   Mature height category.
         (d)   Recommended or not recommended.
         (e)   Mature height categories shall be as listed below.
            1.   Small - less than 25 feet in height at maturity.
            2.   Medium - less than 40 feet in height at maturity.
            3.   Large - at least 40 feet and up to 100 feet or more in height
at maturity.
      (2)   Tree quality. Trees planted on city property shall be good quality
and have the following characteristics.
         (a)   Have healthy roots, trunk, and crown.
         (b)   Be free from stem encircling and stem girdling roots.
         (c)   Have a form characteristic of the species, but otherwise with a
straight trunk and without co-dominant stems and included bark.
         (d)   Have well-spaced branches.
         (e)   Be free from insects, diseases, and mechanical injuries.
      (3)   Tree placement. Trees shall be planted in locations that meet the
following criteria:
         (a)   At least 30 feet from street intersections.
         (b)   At least 25 feet from stop signs and light poles.
         (c)   At least 15 feet from driveways, utility poles, fire hydrants,
and mail boxes.
         (d)   At least 2.5 feet from the curb and sidewalks.
         (e)   Only small trees shall be planted beneath or within 20 feet of
overhead utility lines.
         (f)   Small trees shall be planted no closer than 10 feet to a
building.
         (g)   No medium tree shall be planted closer than 20 feet to overhead
electrical power lines or 20 feet to a building.
         (h)   No large tree shall be planted closer than 30 feet to overhead
electrical power lines or 30 feet to a building.
The Tree Board may approve other tree placement designs in public spaces that
do not meet the above criteria, such as a planned streetscape design.
      (4)   Spacing between trees. For all street tree plantings, except for
special planting plans approved by the Tree Board, the following minimum
planting distances shall be required.
         (a)   Small trees shall be planted at least 25 feet apart.
         (b)   Medium trees shall be planted at least 35 feet apart.
         (c)   Large trees shall be planted at least 50 feet apart.
      (5)   Open soil surface area. Trees shall have a minimum of 16 square
feet of open soil surface area when planted in tree wells or concrete cutouts.
Otherwise, trees shall have the minimum open soil surface areas listed below.
         (a)   Small trees - 16 square feet (4 feet x 4 feet).
         (b)   Medium trees - 64 square feet (8 feet x 8 feet).
         (c)   Large trees - 144 square feet (12 feet x 12 feet).
      (6)   Utility locates. No street tree other than those species as listed
as small maturing trees may be planted under or within 20 lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire, or over or within ten lateral feet of any underground
water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. The party
excavating the planting hole shall be responsible for insuring that all
underground utilities have been located and marked prior to any excavation.
      (7)   City tree planting permit. A city tree planting permit shall be
required for anyone to plant trees on public property. On State Highway rights-
of-way, a State of South Carolina Encroachment Permit shall also be required
(see division (B)(8)). The Tree Committee shall be responsible for issuing City
Tree Planting Permits. Applications for City Tree Planting Permits shall
include, at a minimum, the following information.
         (a)   Application date.
         (b)   Name and contact information of applicant.
         (c)   Address where the tree is to be planted.
         (d)   Tree species and variety to be planted.
         (e)   Caliper size of tree (diameter of trunk measured at 6 inches
above the ground line).
         (f)   Exact location of planting site and description, including the
presence of overhead or underground utility lines,
         (g)   Three-year maintenance plan and schedule.
      (8)   State of South Carolina Encroachment Permit.  
         (a)   A State of South Carolina Encroachment Permit is required for
any landscaping work performed on State Highway rights-of-way and can be
requested from the South Carolina Department of Transportation. A sketch plan
of the proposed project must be attached to the Encroachment Permit
Application. This plan should show the planting arrangement and the type of
plants to be used. Photographs may also be helpful.
         (b)   All proposed encroachment permit applications should clearly
state the following information.
            1.   Speed limit (mph).
            2.   Cut or fill slope (check with local Resident Maintenance
Engineer).
            3.   Traffic volume - less or greater than 1,500 ADT (check with
local Resident Maintenance Engineer).
            4.   Label guardrail; barrier curb; sidewalks; edge of pavement and
right-of-way line on sketch; indicate traffic lights at road intersections (a
label stating “TL” in a box is acceptable).
            5.   State distance plant material is from curb or edge of pavement
(offset).
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Pruning.
         (a)   Public trees. Tree pruning shall be done on a routine basis to
provide pedestrian, traffic, sign, light, and signal clearance, to reduce
conflicts with buildings and infrastructure, to improve tree structure, form,
and health, and to remove dead, diseased, dying and otherwise objectionable
branches over two inches in diameter. Tree pruning shall be done in accordance
with current professional standards (ANSI A300). The following clearances shall
be maintained through routine pruning.
            1.   Seven feet above sidewalks and walkways.
            2.   Twelve feet above residential streets.
            3.   Sixteen feet above major thoroughfares.
         (b)   Newly planted trees. Newly planted trees shall be inspected
during the summer months at one, two, and three years after planting and pruned
if necessary to improve their structure and health.
         (c)   Private trees. The city shall have the right to prune trees on
private property to provide clearance over public sidewalks and roadways, to
improve visibility of signs, signals, and lights, and to reduce hazards.
Pruning shall comply to current national standards (ANSI A300).
         (d)   Utility line clearance pruning. All pruning completed for the
purpose of utility line clearance shall be done in accordance with current
professional standards (ANSI A300) and shall be supervised by a Certified
Arborist.
         (e)   Topping. The topping of any publicly owned tree shall not be
permitted under any circumstances. The city may, at its discretion, require
that any party topping public trees pay a penalty in an amount up to but no
greater than the appraised value of the tree prior to topping.
      (2)   Mulching. All newly planted trees shall be mulched with leaves,
aged wood chips, pine straw, or other good quality organic mulch during the
establishment period — the first three years after planting. Mulch shall be
applied in an even layer, 3-4 inches deep, out to the dripline of the tree. All
trees shall be mulched where practical, as far out towards the dripline as
possible. Mulch shall be kept at least 6 inches away from the tree trunk to
avoid creating favorable conditions for insect, disease, or rodent infestation.
      (3)   Fertilization. Fertilization may be done where and when a soil or
foliar test indicates a nutrient deficiency. Fertilization shall be done
according to current professional standards (ANSI A300).
      (4)   Watering. Watering shall be done for all newly planted trees during
the months of May through October at least once per week during periods of
drought or low rainfall, up to an amount of one inch of water per week.
      (5)   Pest control. When public trees are found to have insect or disease
infestations that pose a major threat to surrounding trees, they shall be
effectively treated or removed by the city. Spraying of insecticides,
fungicides, or herbicides shall be done only for the control of specific
insects, diseases, or weeds with the proper materials in the necessary strength
and applied at the proper time to obtain the desired control. General spraying
for insect, disease, and weed control shall be discouraged.
   (D)   Protection. During the installation, repair, alteration, or removal of
any building, house, structure, utility line, or hardscape, or the conduct of a
public event or gathering, any person, firm, or corporation in charge of such
work or event shall protect the roots, trunk, and crown of adjacent public
trees from harmful activities to prevent injury to such trees. The minimum
radius of the root protection zone should be equal to one foot per inch (dbh)
of the affected tree(s).
      (1)   Activities harmful to trees. Activities harmful to trees shall
include, but are not limited to, trenching, grading, grubbing, soil backfill or
sedimentation, soil cuts, soil compaction from equipment, vehicle, or
pedestrian traffic, soil compaction from materials storage, soil contamination
from equipment maintenance and washouts, changes in water drainage, fire, trunk
wounds, limb wounds, improper pruning (including topping), and broken branches.
These activities are common during infrastructure installation or repair,
building or facility construction, and public events or gatherings.
      (2)   Tree protection fencing and other protection measures. Except in
the case of public events and gatherings, tree protection fencing, consisting
of sturdy material at least four feet high, shall be erected at the critical
root zone prior to the commencement of any harmful activity by the individual
in charge of that activity, and shall remain in place until the activity is
completed. Other protection measures may include tunneling, trunk wraps,
mulching, or irrigation.
   (E)   Removal.  
      (1)   Citizen requests. A tree removal permit shall be required for
anyone wishing to remove a tree on public property. The removal of trees on
public property shall be the responsibility of the Public Works Department. The
Public Works Department or Tree Board may charge the cost of the removal of
trees in response to citizen requests, upon recommendation, to the citizen
requesting the removal. The Tree Board is vested with the authority to and
reserves the right to reject any and all permit requests submitted as deemed
appropriate by the Tree Board.
      (2)   Tree removal permit. A permit shall be required for any party,
except for city personnel and those acting at the expressed request or
direction of the city, to remove any tree located on public property. The Tree
Committee shall issue the tree removal permit. The application for a tree
removal permit shall be submitted to the Tree Committee at least ten days prior
to a regularly scheduled Tree Board meeting. The Tree Board shall rule on the
application and notify the Zoning Administrator and the applicant of the
results of the ruling within three days after the meeting. The application for
a tree removal permit must include, at a minimum, the following information.
         (a)   Application date.
         (b)   Name and contact information of applicant.
         (c)   Tree location.
         (d)   Tree species.
         (e)   Tree dbh.
         (f)   Reason for removal.
The Tree Board is vested with the authority to and reserves the right to reject
any and all permit requests submitted as deemed appropriate by the Tree Board.
      (3)   Permitted reasons. Removal shall be permitted for the following
reasons. Removal for other reasons may be permitted by recommendation of the
Tree Board.
         (a)   The tree is dead.
         (b)   The tree is affected by an insect or disease problem that is
untreatable and results in rapidly declining tree health or a hazardous
condition.
         (c)   The tree is dying due to past damage and its condition cannot be
improved with standard maintenance techniques.
         (d)   The tree has an uncorrectable structural defect that results in
an increased risk of whole or partial tree failure.
         (e)   The tree is reducing sight visibility and the correction of the
problem will result in severe disfigurement of the tree or crown reduction
below 50%.
         (f)   The tree is in a restricted growing space, is in conflict with
the surrounding hardscape or infrastructure, and the conflict cannot be
resolved.
         (g)   The tree is in conflict with overhead utility lines and proper
pruning cannot adequately reduce the conflict without severely disfiguring the
tree.
      (4)   Replacement of trees removed. All trees removed on public property
shall be replaced within two years after removal. If the site where the tree
was removed is not suitable for replanting, a tree shall be planted in a
suitable location as close as possible to the removal location. If there is no
suitable location close to the removal location, then a tree shall be planted
in a planned planting location in the vicinity. The Tree Board shall assess a
replacement fee of $300 per tree for each tree removed to the individual,
group, or agency requesting the removal.
      (5)   Stump removal. All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed
to a depth of eight inches below the surface of the ground so that the top of
the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground. Sod, grass seed,
or other satisfactory ground cover shall be placed and maintained on the site
of the removed or ground stump. Stumps shall not be ground in cemeteries. The
Tree Board may preserve stumps with historic significance.
      (6)   Private commercial trees. The city shall have the right to remove
or cause to be removed trees on private commercial property that are at a high
risk for failure, have insect or disease infestations that are a threat to
surrounding trees, or are otherwise nuisances that threaten the health and
safety of the public.
         (a)   Written notice. Owners of premises (commercial property) where a
nuisance tree is located shall be served a written notice from the Zoning
Administrator either in person or by registered mail that action must be taken
to abate the nuisance within 30 days. If after 30 days the nuisance has not
been abated, the city shall have the right to remove the tree or cause the tree
to be removed, and charge the property owner with the cost of removal and all
other associated costs.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.31 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   No person shall damage, destroy, remove, or otherwise harm a tree
located on public property without a tree removal permit or the written consent
of the Tree Board or Zoning Administrator. The city shall require compensation
for the damage or destruction of a public tree equal to the appraised value of
the tree prior to the damage or the cost of repair to the tree by an approved
arborist.
   (B)   Appraised tree value. The appraised value of a tree shall be
calculated by a Certified Arborist based on the current edition of the Guide
for Plant Appraisal developed by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers
and published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.32 CONFLICT OF PROVISIONS.
   Any provisions in §§
96.20 et seq. which conflict with any other provision of
Chapter 96 or any other chapter of the City of Bennettsville’s Code of
Ordinances shall be subordinate and shall not affect the effect of any other
non-conflicting provision of §§
96.20 et seq.
(Ord. 10-03-01, passed 3-16-10)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, be subject to a fine not
to exceed $200 or 30 days of imprisonment.
(‘88 Code, § 15.216)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
APPENDIX A: RATE CLASS INDEX
         
APPENDIX B: 2023 BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Purpose and duration
   
110.04   Business license tax, refund
   
110.05   Registration required
   
110.06   Deductions, exemptions, and charitable organizations
   
110.07   False application unlawful
   
110.08   Display and transfer
   
110.09   Administration
   
110.10   Inspection and audits
   
110.11   Assessments, payment under protest, appeal
   
110.12   Delinquent license taxes, partial payment
   
110.13   Notices
   
110.14   Denial of license
   
110.15   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.16   Appeals to Council or its designee
   
110.17   Consent, franchise or license required for use of streets
   
110.18   Confidentiality
   
110.19   Violations
   
110.20   Classification and rates
   
Appendix A: Business License Rate Schedule
   
Appendix B: 2023 Business License Class Schedule by NAICS Code
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession, or activity engaged in with the object of gain,
benefit, or advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of the city is
required to pay an annual license tax for the privilege of doing business and
obtaining a business license as herein provided.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meaning ascribed herein. Defined terms are not capitalized when used
in this chapter unless the context otherwise requires.
   BUSINESS. Any business, calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged
in with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. Section
501(c)(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose which does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer,
officer, director, trustee or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. That division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Bennettsville.
   DOMICILE. A principal place from which the trade or business of a license is
conducted, directed, or managed. For purposes of this chapter, a licensee may
be deemed to have more than one domicile.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued, for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a domicile within
the municipality, business done within the municipality shall include all gross
receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If the licensee does
not have a domicile within the municipality, business done within the
municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received or accrued
within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a business license
tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee’s gross income for the
purpose of computing the tax within the municipality must be reduced by the
amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or municipality and
fully reported to the municipality. Gross income for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds, or funds that are the property of a third party. The value of bartered
goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in gross income. The gross
receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by
inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the
South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina Department of
Insurance, or other government agencies. In calculating gross income for
certain businesses, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Gross income for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered gross income.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code § 38-7-20, gross
income for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   Gross income for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of: (i) gross
revenues or receipts received or accrued from business done at the location;
(ii) the amount of income allocated and apportioned to that location by the
business for purposes of the business’s state income tax return; or (iii) the
amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost center of the
business. Licensees reporting gross income under this provision shall have the
burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by satisfactory
records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting a
manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this chapter.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary license official, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate license officials to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under S.C. Code Title
58, Ch. 20, Art. 20, and Title 38, Chs. 7 and 45.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bennettsville, South Carolina.
   NAICS. The North American Industry Classification System for the United
States published under the auspices of the Federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, LLP, LLC, cooperative non-profit
membership, corporation, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, holding company, or other group or combination
acting as a unit, in the singular or plural, and the agent or employee having
charge or control of a business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this chapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege
tax. Except as set forth below for business licenses issued to contractors with
respect to specific construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued
for the 12-month period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for a
construction contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to expire
at the completion of the construction project; provided, any such business
license may require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount. The provisions of
this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from year to year as
amended by the Council.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.04 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX, REFUND.
   (A)   The required business license tax shall be paid for each business
subject hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
due date of April 30 in each year, except for those businesses in Rate Class 8
for which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in §
110.12, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1 without
penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee’s gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee’s 12-month fiscal year preceding the due date, or on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one year. The business license tax for a new business must be
computed on the estimated probable gross income for the balance of the license
year. A business license related to construction contract projects may be
issued on a per-project basis, at the option of the taxpayer. No refund shall
be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before the June 1 immediately following the April
30 on which the payment was due and must be supported by adequate documentation
supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or deny the
refund request, and if approved shall issue the refund to the business, within
30 days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.05 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the
annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of
the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol, beer, or
wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of the
business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this chapter by the license official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported, (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments and personal property taxes on business property, and other monies
due and payable to the Municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation, and
payment of business license taxes through the business license tax portal
hosted and managed by the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office,
subject to the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal
availability or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from
existing business license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.06 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS, AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the ordinance by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The License Official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this chapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if: (i) any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization as
defined in this chapter; or (ii) any net proceeds of operation, after necessary
expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose
as defined in this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond
fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee, or
person with ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a
necessary expense of operation.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.07 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license, or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of any false information with respect to the
license or fee required by this chapter.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21) Penalty,
see § 110.23
§ 110.08 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the License Official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his person or in a vehicle used in the business
readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the city.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the License Official within
ten days after removal of the business to a new location and the license will
be valid at the new address upon written notification by the License Official
and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the approval
of the License Official for a change of address shall invalidate the license
and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a license. A
business license shall not be transferable and a transfer of controlling
interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and the
establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on old
business income.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATION.
   The License Official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect business license fees, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations
and audits to insure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the municipal attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.10 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter the
License Official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections, examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful for any
such person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
business license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided
herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of business license tax
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The License Official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with the chapter. Financial
information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed public
records, and the License Official shall not release the amount of business
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.11 ASSESSMENTS, PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST, APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest, and appeals of assessment shall
be allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing assessment, the License Official may
examine such records of the business or any other available records as may be
appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical surveys as the
License Official may deem appropriate to assess a business license tax and
penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The License Official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for adjustment
of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided that for
particular types of business licenses, including without limitation for
business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under
S.C. Code Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20, and Title 38, Chs. 7 and 45, the
municipality, by separate ordinance, may establish a different procedure and
may delegate one or more rights, duties, and functions hereunder to the
Municipal Association of South Carolina.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.12 DELINQUENT LICENSE FEES, PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non payment of all or any part of the correct business license
tax, the License Official shall impose and collect a late penalty of 5% of the
unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid.
Penalties shall not be waived. If any business license tax remains unpaid for
60 days after its due date, the License Official shall report it to the
municipal attorney for appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the License Official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.13 NOTICES.
   The License Official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.14 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   The License Official may deny a license to an applicant when the License
Official determines:
   (A)   The application is incomplete, contains a misrepresentation, false or
misleading statement, evasion or suppression of a material fact;
   (B)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or constitutes
a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
   (C)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control of
the business has been convicted within the previous ten years of an offense
under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving dishonest
conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a business, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
   (D)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control of
the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
   (E)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control of
the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
   (F)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
   (G)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the licensee
in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied, suspended, or
revoked in the previous license year.
   (H)   A decision of the License Official shall be subject to appeal as
herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   When the License Official determines:
   (A)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued contrary
to law;
   (B)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud, misrepresentation,
a false or misleading statement, evasion or suppression of a material fact in
the license application;
   (D)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
   (E)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to
the business; or
   (F)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax
or fee;
   The License Official may give written notice to the licensee or the person
in control of the business within the municipality by personal service or mail
that the license is suspended pending a single hearing before Council or its
designee for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should be upheld
and the license should be revoked. The written notice of suspension and
proposed revocation shall state the time and place at which the hearing is to
be held, and shall contain a brief statement of the reasons for the suspension
and proposed revocation and a copy of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.16 APPEALS TO COUNCIL OR ITS DESIGNEE.
   (A)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
110.11, which are governed by S.C. Code § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved by a
determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the License Official may appeal the decision to the Council or its
designee by written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the
License Official within ten days after service by mail or personal service of
the notice of determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation.
   (B)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial or other determination of
the License Official and a hearing on a suspension and proposed revocation
shall be held by the Council or its designee within ten business days after
receipt of a request for appeal or service of a notice of suspension and
proposed revocation. The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular
or special meeting of the Council, or, if by designee of the Council, at a
hearing to be scheduled by the designee. The hearing may be continued to
another date by agreement of all parties. At the hearing, all parties shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to present testimony and evidence,
and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings shall be recorded and
transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting. The rules of evidence
and procedure prescribed by Council or its designee shall govern the hearing.
Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members present, or
the designee of Council if the hearing is held by the designee, shall render a
written decision based on findings of fact and conclusions on application of
the standards herein. The written decision shall be served, by personal service
or by mail, upon all parties or their representatives and shall constitute the
final decision of the municipality.
   (C)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council or its designee does not
effectuate a stay of that decision. The decision of the Council or its designee
shall be binding and enforceable unless overturned by an applicable appellate
court after a due and timely appeal.
   (D)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under S.C. Code Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20, and Title 38, Chs. 7 and 45,
the municipality may establish a different procedure by ordinance.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.17 CONSENT, FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain or
operate in, on, above or under any street or public place under control of the
municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure or facility for utilities,
communications, cablevision or other purposes without a consent agreement or
franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that prescribes the
term, fees and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21) Penalty,
see § 110.23
§ 110.18 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21) Penalty,
see § 110.23
§ 110.19 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties and costs provided for
herein.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-1-03, passed 11-16-21)
§ 110.20 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
chapter shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule, laid out in Appendix A of this chapter, which may be amended from
time to time by the Council.
   (B)   The current business license class schedule is included as
Appendix B of this chapter. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd
year, the municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized
business license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of
South Carolina and adopted by the Director of the South Carolina Revenue and
Fiscal Affairs Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised business
license class schedule shall then be appended to this chapter as a replacement
Appendix B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, sub- sector, group, or industry. The business license class
schedule (
Appendix B of this chapter) is a tool for classification and not a limitation
on businesses subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most
recent version of the business license class schedule adopted by the Council
that most specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the
business. The License Official shall have the authority to make the
determination of the classification most specifically applicable to a subject
business.
   (D)   A copy of the class schedule and rate schedule shall be filed in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE RATE SCHEDULE RATES
RATE CLASS INCOME:              ALL OVER $2,000
           0 - $2,000 BASE RATE Rate per Thousand or fraction thereof
RATE CLASS INCOME:                      ALL OVER $2,000
           0 - $2,000 BASE RATE         Rate per Thousand or fraction thereof
8.1        $55.00                       $1.00
8.2        Set by State statute
8.3        MASC Telecommunications
8.4        MASC insurance $45.00        $1.00
8.51       $12.50 + $12.50 per machine
8.52       $12.50 + $180.00 per machine
8.6        $25.00 plus $12.50 per table
9.41       $200.00                      $3.00
9.42       $50.00                       $3.00
 
NON-RESIDENT RATES
Unless otherwise specifically provided, all taxes and rates shall be doubled
for nonresidents and itinerants having no fixed principal place of business
within the municipality.
DECLINING RATES
Declining Rates apply in all Classes for gross income in excess of $1,000,000,
unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter.
 
Gross Income  Percent of Class Rate for each additional $1,000
in $ Millions
0 - 1         100%
1 - 2         95%
2 - 3         90%
3 - 4         85%
OVER 4        80%
 
   CLASS 8 RATES
   Each NAICS Number designates a separate sub-classification. The businesses
in this section are treated as separate and individual subclasses due to
provisions of state law, regulatory requirements, service burdens, tax
equalization considerations, and other factors that are deemed sufficient to
require individually determined rates. In accordance with state law, the
municipality also may provide for reasonable subclassifications for rates,
described by an NAICS sector, subsector, or industry, that are based on
particularized considerations as needed for economic stimulus or for the
enhanced or disproportionate demands on municipal services or infrastructure.
Non-resident rates do not apply except where indicated.
8.1   NAICS 230000 - Contractors, Construction, All Types: [Non-resident rates
apply].
         Minimum on first $2,000   $ 55.00    PLUS
         Each additional 1,000         $ .90
   Non-resident rates apply to contractors that do not have a permanent place
of business within the municipality. A trailer at the construction site or
structure in which the contractor temporarily resides is not a permanent place
of business under this chapter.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all state and
municipal qualification examination and trade license requirements have been
met. Each contractor shall post a sign in plain view on each job identifying
the contractor with the job.
   Sub contractors shall be licensed on the same basis as general or prime
contractors for the same job. No deductions shall be made by a general or prime
contractor for value of work performed by a sub contractor.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all performance and
indemnity bonds required by the Building Code have been filed and approved.
Zoning permits must be obtained when required by the Zoning Ordinance.
   Each prime contractor shall file with the License Official a list of sub
contractors furnishing labor or materials for each project.
   For licenses issued on a per-job basis, the total tax for the full amount of
the contract shall be paid prior to commencement of work and shall entitle the
contractor to complete the job without regard to the normal license expiration
date. An amended report shall be filed for each new job and the appropriate
additional license fee per $1,000.00 of the contract amount shall be paid prior
to commencement of new work. Only one base tax shall be paid in a license year.
Licensees holding a per- job license shall file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount.
8.2 -   NAICS 482 - Railroad Companies - (See S.C. Code § 12-23-210 )
8.3 -   NAICS 517111, 517112, 517122 - Telephone Companies:
   With respect to “retail telecommunications services” as defined in S.C. Code
§ 58-9-2200, the municipality participates in a collections program
administered by the Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality
has approved participation in the collections program by separate ordinance
(the “Telecommunications Collections Ordinance”). The rates, terms, conditions,
dates, penalties, appeals process, and other details of the business license
applicable to retail telecommunications services are set forth in the
Telecommunications Collections Ordinance.
8.4 -    NAICS 5241 and 5242 - Insurance Companies and Brokers:
   Independent agents, brokers, and their employees are subject to a business
license tax based on their natural class. With respect to insurers subject to
license fees and taxes under S.C. Title 38, Ch. 7 and to brokers under S.C.
Title 38, Ch. 45, the municipality participates in a collections program
administered by the Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality
has approved participation in the collections program by separate ordinance
(the “Insurers and Brokers Collections Ordinance”). The rates, terms,
conditions, dates, penalties, appeals process, and other details of the
business license applicable to insurers and brokers are set forth in the
Insurers and Brokers Collections Ordinance.
8.51 -    NAICS 713120 - Amusement Machines, coin operated (except gambling):
   Music machines, juke boxes, kiddy rides, video games, pin tables with
levers, and other amusement machines with or without free play feature licensed
by SC Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(1) and (A)(2)
[Type I and Type II].
   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-21-2746:
      Per machine      $12.50 PLUS
      Business license         $12.50
   Distributers that sell or lease machines are not licensed by the state as an
operator pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass 8.51.
8.52 -   NAICS 713290 - Amusement Machines, coin operated, non-payout:
   Amusement machines of the non-payout type or in-line pin game licensed by SC
Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(3) [Type III].
   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-21-2720(B):
      Per Machine      $180.00 PLUS
      Business license         $12.50
   Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by the state
as an operator pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2728 and are not subject to
Subclass 8.52.
8.6 -    NAICS Code Varies - Billiard or Pool Tables:
   (A)   A business that offers the use of billiard or pool tables shall be
subject to business license taxation under its natural class for all gross
income of the business excluding the gross income attributable to the billiard
or pool tables. In addition, the billiard or pool tables shall require their
own separate business licenses pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2746 and shall be
subject to a license tax of $5 per table measuring less than three and a half
feet wide and seven feet long, and $12.50 per table longer than that.
   NAICS 454390 - Peddlers, Solicitors, Canvassers, Door-To-Door Sales:    
   The NAICS codes corresponding to classes 9.41 and 9.42 have been eliminated.
Businesses that were previously classified into 9.41 or 9.42 shall be required
to apply and pay for a business license in their natural class.
(Ord. 10-11-002, passed 11-6-10; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21; Am. Ord.
passed 3- 19-24)
APPENDIX B: 2023 BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
NAICS Sector/Subsector Industry Sector Class
NAICS Sector/Subsector Industry Sector                                  Class
11                     Agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing       1
21                     Mining                                           2
22                     Utilities                                        1
31-33                  Manufacturing                                    3
42                     Wholesale trade                                  1
44-45                  Retail trade                                     1
48-49                  Transportation and warehousing                   1
51                     Information                                      4
52                     Finance and insurance                            7
53                     Real estate and rental and leasing               7
54                     Professional, scientific, and technical services 5
55                     Management of companies                          7
56                     Administrative and support and waste management  3
                       and remediation services
61                     Educational services                             3
62                     Health care and social assistance                4
71                     Arts, entertainment, and recreation              3
721                    Accommodation                                    1
722                    Food services and drinking places                2
81                     Other services                                   4
                       
Class 8                Mandatory or Recommended Subclasses
23                     Construction                                     8.10
482                    Rail transportation                              8.20
517111                 Wired telecommunications carriers                8.30
517112                 Wireless telecommunications carriers (except     8.30
                       satellite)
517122                 Agents for wireless telecommunications services  8.30
5241                   Insurance carriers                               8.40
5242                   Insurance brokers for non-admitted insurance     8.40
                       carriers
713120                 Amusement parks and arcades                      8.51
713290                 Nonpayout amusement machines                     8.52
713990                 All other amusement and recreational industries  8.60
                       (pool tables)
 
Note: 2023 Class Schedule is based on a three-year average (2017 - 2019) of IRS
statistical data.
(Ord. 17-03-001, passed 3-21-17; Am. Ord. 21-11-03, passed 11-16-21; Am. Ord.
passed 3-19-24)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Jurisdiction of Court
   
111.03   Prior offenses; constitution
   
111.04   Prohibited hours of operation
   
111.05   Prohibited acts on licensed premises
   
111.06   Revocation of license; sales afterward
   
111.07   Additional approval required
   
111.08   Certificates posted
   
111.09   Powers of police officers
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS. Any spirituous malt, vinous, fermented, brewed or other
liquors or any compound or mixture thereof by whatever name called or known
which contains alcohol and used as a beverage. ( S.C. Code § 61-3-20)
   NONALCOHOLIC and NONINTOXICATING. All beers, ales, porter and other similar
malt or fermented beverages containing not in excess of 5% of alcohol by weight
and all wines containing not in excess of 21% of alcohol by volume. (S.C. Code
§ 61-9-10)
(‘88 Code, § 14.101.1)
§ 111.02 JURISDICTION OF THE COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall try and determine all cases involving any
violation of this chapter occurring within the corporate limits and shall have
jurisdiction over criminal cases, with the right and duty of sending the cases,
occurring within the corporate limits but beyond its jurisdiction to try, to
the higher courts. Any persons convicted hereunder shall be treated as
municipal prisoners.
(‘88 Code, § 14.101.2)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see S.C. Code § 4-7-30
   Municipal court jurisdiction, see S.C. Code §§ 61-2-210 and 61-6-4500
§ 111.03 PRIOR OFFENSES; CONSTITUTION.
   A conviction, plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere or forfeiture of bond
for the violation of any of the laws of this state, or of the United States, on
or after March 28, 1956, relating to alcoholic liquor shall constitute prior
offense for the purpose of any prosecution, or for the purpose of imposition of
sentence for any subsequent violation of this chapter.
(S.C. Code § 61-13-4220) (‘88 Code, § 14.101.3)
§ 111.04 PROHIBITED HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any wine
or beer between the hours of 12:00 midnight Saturday night and sunrise Monday
morning, except for those establishments licensed by the state to sell
alcoholic beverages in containers of two ounces or less during the lawful
hours. (S.C. Code § 61-9-90) (‘88 Code, § 14.103.6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Applicable statutory provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-4-120
§ 111.05 PROHIBITED ACTS ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   No holder of a permit authorizing the sale of beer or wine or any
servant, agent or employee of the permittee shall knowingly do any of the
following acts upon the licensed premises covered by the holder’s permit:
      (1)   Sell beer or wine to any person while the person if in an
intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Permit gambling or games of chance;
      (3)   Permit any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or
practices;
      (4)   Permit any act, the commission of which tends to create a public
nuisance or which constitutes a crime under local ordinances or the laws of the
state; or
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale or possess any beverage or alcoholic liquor
the sale or possession of which is prohibited on licensed premises under the
laws of this state.
   (B)   A violation of any of the foregoing provisions shall be grounds for
the revocation or suspension of the holder’s permit by the state.
(S.C. Code § 61-9-410) (‘88 Code, § 14.103.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-4-580
§ 111.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; SALES AFTERWARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any holder of a license, to sell
beer or wine at wholesale or retail, to sell or offer to sell beer or wine
after the license shall have been revoked or canceled or during the period of a
suspension of the license.
(‘88 Code, § 14.103.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 ADDITIONAL APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No person holding a retail permit to sell beer, ale, porter and other
similar malt or fermented beverages, issued by the state, shall sell beverages
on draft, on tap or from kegs or other containers on the premises described in
the permit, unless approved by the rules and regulations of the Department of
Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) governing eating and drinking
establishments and other retail food establishments.
(S.C. Code § 61-9-810) (‘88 Code, § 14.103.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-4-1750
§ 111.08 CERTIFICATES POSTED.
   Both the permit issued by the state and the certificate of approval issued
by the Department of Health and Environmental Control shall be conspicuously
posted on the premises.
(S.C. Code § 61-9-820) (‘88 Code, § 14.103.12)
§ 111.09 POWERS OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   All municipal police officers are hereby given the power to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, in cases arising within the corporate limits and,
in addition, shall have all powers to enforce the provisions as they now have
to enforce municipal ordinances.
(‘88 Code, § 14.103.13)
CHAPTER 112: LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX
Section
   
112.01   Findings
   
112.02   Authority
   
112.03   Declaration of purpose and intent
   
112.04   Imposition
   
112.05   Public hearing
   
112.06   Payment of tax
   
112.07   Hospitality tax account
   
112.08   Permitted use of funds
   
112.09   Inspections and audits
   
112.10   Authorization
§ 112.01 FINDINGS.
   It is hereby found and declared by the City Council of the City of
Bennettsville (City Council), the governing body of the City of Bennettsville,
South Carolina (the “city”):
   (A)   Tourism is becoming a major industry in the city. The city supports
this major industry and has implemented improvements in the downtown area of
the city in order to revitalize and redevelop the city and to further attract
tourists to the community.
   (B)   Moreover, as the tourism industry grows and expands, the city must
make provisions to increase certain municipal services in order to accommodate
the needs of tourists who visit from time to time in addition to the residents
of Bennettsville.
   (C)   The cost of providing the special services required by the tourism
industry should be apportioned equitably between the city’s residents and those
who visit the city and enjoy the special benefits city provides to them. It is
necessary for the promotion of the common interest of the residents of the city
as well as those visitors to the city to provide a method to alleviate the
added financial burden on city resources in providing the services and
improvements needed to support tourism and the resulting transient population.
   (D)   In order to raise the necessary sums to defray a portion of those
added costs, it is appropriate to impose a charge, the receipts of which will
pay costs related to:
      (1)   The provision of municipal services which serve such visitors or
tourists; and
      (2)   Capital projects which not only enrich the city’s residents but
also contribute to the tourism industry.
   (E)   Cognizant of the need for municipalities to be given direct statutory
authorization to raise money earmarked to defray such costs related to tourism,
recreation, cultural and historic facilities, the South Carolina General
Assembly adopted Act No. 138 during its 1997 session, now codified, in part, as
S.C. Code § 6-1-700 to 6-1-770 (the “Enabling Act”), as amended.
   (F)   City Council finds its actions in:
      (1)   Imposing a 2% hospitality tax upon prepared food and beverages sold
for immediate consumption or take out from establishments within the corporate
limits of the city; and
      (2)   Segregating the collections received from such fees in order that
such sums be utilized according to the Enabling Act.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --)
§ 112.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority of Title 5 of the S.C.
Code, including, without limitation S.C. Code § 5-7-30 (Supp. 1999), which
provides, in relevant part, that municipalities may adopt all ordinances which
appear necessary and proper for the security, general welfare, and convenience
of the municipality and for the preservation of the general health, peace, and
order in the municipality and further that municipalities may establish uniform
service charges.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --)
§ 112.03 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is enacted to preserve the general health, safety, and welfare
of the general public within the City of Bennettsville, South Carolina by
creating a uniform tax for the purpose of creating a fund for uses that are
enumerated in S.C. Code § 6-1-730, as amended. This fund will be used to pay in
whole or in part for current and future public park facilities; for capital
expenditures to promote quality of life, tourism, recreation, cultural and
historic structures; and to provide infrastructure and promotion for these
projects.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --)
§ 112.04 IMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Local Hospitality Tax of 2% imposed on the gross proceeds (total
collected) derived from the sale of prepared food, meals, and beverages (for
consumption or take out) by a restaurant, vendor, hotel, motel, caterer, food
truck, or other food service within the city, including those prepared food,
meals, and beverages outside the city limits, but packaged, served, and sold
within the city. In addition, the tax shall be imposed on all food, meals, and
beverages prepared or modified in the city limits by convenience stores,
grocery stores or any store that have specified areas where food and beverages
are prepared for consumption or take out. This tax applies to food, meals, and
beverages sold and licensed for on-premises consumption, including alcoholic
beverages, beer, or wine. This tax does not apply to organizations that are
exempt from collecting sales tax according to S.C. Code § 12-36-2120, as
amended.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected from the customer
by the vendor when payment for food, meals, or beverages are tendered. Said
vendor is liable for the collection and shall hold in trust for the benefit of
the city until remitted.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --; Am. Ord. passed 5-16-23)
§ 112.05 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Pursuant to the provisions of 1976 S.C. Code § 6-1-330, as amended, a public
hearing shall be held prior to the adoption of this chapter. All actions taken
by the City Administrator in providing the required notice of said hearing are
hereby approved and ratified.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --)
§ 112.06 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Payment of the tax established herein shall be the liability of the
consumer of the services for items described in §
112.04. The tax shall be paid at the time of delivery of the services or items
to which the fee applies and shall be collected by the provider or seller of
the items.
   (B)   The tax collected by the seller or provider of the items as required
under §
112.04 shall be remitted to the city of Bennettsville as follows:
      (1)   On a monthly basis when the estimated amount of average collections
is more than $50 a month (annual gross revenue in excess of $20,000).
      (2)   On a quarterly basis when the estimated amount of average
collections is between $25 to $50 a month (annual gross receipts between
$10,000 to $20,000).
      (3)   On an annual basis when the amount of average collections is less
than $25 a month (annual gross receipts less than $10,000).
   (C)   Total collections and required reports shall be submitted to the city
of Bennettsville by the 20th day of the month and shall cover sales for the
previous month. A copy of the completed South Carolina State Sales and Use Tax
Return Form (Form ST-3) shall be attached along with the required reports. When
a hospitality tax is filed and the taxes due on it are paid in full on or
before the final due date, the filer is allowed a discount of 2% on the fees
shown to be due by the return. Payments covered under the provisions of
division (B)(2) shall be submitted quarterly by the 20th of January, April,
July and October for the previous quarterly sales or annually by January 20 for
the calendar year sales as provided in division (B)(3). Any collections not
remitted by the above stated deadlines shall be subject to a penalty of 5% of
the unpaid amount for each calendar month or portion thereof after the due date
until paid. The failure to collect from patrons the amount imposed by this
article shall not relieve any establishment subject to this article from making
the required remittance.
   (D)   Any person violating this article shall be deemed guilty of an offense
and shall be subject to punishment pursuant to the city’s Code of Ordinances
upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability for
delinquent amount, penalties, and costs provided for herein.    
   (E)   Any misrepresentation of the information required by return(s) as set
forth in failure to collect or timely remit to the city the taxes imposed by
this chapter may result in the suspension and/or revocation of the business
license of the offending business/vendor, or the business license of the
offending business/vendor shall not be renewed.
   (F)   The failure of any business/vendor subject to this chapter shall be
responsible and liable for all tax, penalties, and costs imposed for the past
three years of violation and must submit the appropriate forms and
documentation to the city with payment.
   (G)   The failure of any business/vendor subject to this chapter to remit to
the city the tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall be issued a
municipal court summons on the business owner for the matter before the
Municipal Judge.
   (H)   The failure of any business/vendor subject to this chapter to remit to
the city the tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for up
to 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --; Am. Ord. passed 5-16-23)
§ 112.07 HOSPITALITY TAX ACCOUNT.
   A fund or an account, to be known as the City of Bennettsville Local
Hospitality Tax Fund shall be established, and all revenues received from the
hospitality tax shall be deposited into this account. The principal and any
accrued interest from this account shall be deposited into this account. The
principal and any accrued interest from this account shall be expended only as
permitted in §
112.08 below.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --)
§ 112.08 PERMITTED USES OF FUNDS.
   The City of Bennettsville, South Carolina is hereby authorized to utilize
the funds collected from the imposition of the hospitality fee for the purposes
enumerated in S.C. Code § 6-1-730, as may be amended.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --)
§ 112.09 INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter the city’s
Finance Director or other authorized agent of the city is empowered to enter
upon the premises of any person subject to this section to make inspection,
examine, and/or audit the books and records. and it shall be unlawful for any
person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and records. In
the event that the audit or inspection reveals that the establishment has filed
false information, the cost of the audit shall be added to the corrected amount
due and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided herein. Each day
of failure to pay the proper fee shall constitute a separate offense. The city
Finance Director, or other authorized agent of the city, shall have authority
to enter the business within the city to insure compliance with this section.
Records of inspections and audits shall not be deemed public records and shall
not be released by the city.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --)
§ 112.10 AUTHORIZATION.
   Authorization to utilize revenues from the Local Hospitality Tax Fund shall
be by the annual budget ordinance, or budget amendment, duly adopted by the
City Council.
(Ord. 03-07-01, passed --; Am. Ord. passed 5-16-23)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   State criminal law adopted
   
130.02   Party to a crime; violation
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 STATE CRIMINAL LAW ADOPTED.
   All acts and conduct that constitute violation of the common law and
statutory law, as set forth in the Code of Laws of South Carolina, and
amendatory thereof, are hereby declared unlawful when the acts, conduct or
violations occur, insofar as the provisions and violations can have application
and the punishment of which is within the jurisdiction of the Council.
('88 Code, § 14.804)
§ 130.02 PARTY TO A CRIME; VIOLATION.
   Every person who, whether present or absent, commits, attempts to commit,
conspires to commit or aids or abets in the commission of any act violating any
provision of this title, whether individually or in connection with one or more
other persons or as a principal, agent or accessory, shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a violation. Every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or
willfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs another to
violate any provisions shall be guilty of the offense.
('88 Code, § 14.801)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The entry of any plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture
of any bail posted for the violation of any provision of this title or for the
violation of any other law or municipal ordinance shall have the same effect as
a conviction after trial under the provisions. ('88 Code, § 14.802)
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, upon conviction, the violation of
any section of this title shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. (S.C. Code § 14-25-65) ('88
Code, § 14.803) (Am. Ord. 93-10-01, passed 10-12-93)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY
Section
   
131.01   Unlawful defrauding
   
131.02   Curfew
   
131.03   Indecent exposure
   
131.04   Bawdy houses
   
131.05   Immoral solicitation, information and transportation
   
131.06   Gambling; games of chance
   
131.07   Fortune telling
   
131.08   School disturbances
   
131.09   Public drunkenness
   
131.10   Spitting
   
131.11   Obscene material; display or sale
   
131.12   Interference with streets or sidewalks
   
131.13   Shoplifting
   
131.14   Loitering; obstructing passage
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 UNLAWFUL DEFRAUDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obtain credit at
any place where food is served or accommodations provided, by false pretense or
any fraudulent device or, after obtaining food, accommodation or credit
therefrom, to surreptitiously remove himself or his baggage therefrom and
defraud the operator thereby.
('88 Code, § 11.101) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 17 years to
loiter, wander, stroll, play or be in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, vacant lots or any
other public place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the
following day from Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. on the following day on Friday and Saturday of each week. The
provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, legal guardian
or other adult person, over the age of 21 years, having the lawful care and
custody of the minor;
      (2)   When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent or legal guardian or adult person, over the age of 21 years, having the
lawful care and custody of the minor;
      (3)   When the minor is returning directly home from a civic, school or
recreational activity; or
      (4)   When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having
custody or control of any child under the age of 17 years to permit, or by
insufficient control, to allow the child to be in or upon the public streets or
any other places described in division (A) above within the city between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the following day from Sunday through
Thursday and between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the following day
on Friday and Saturday of each week, except in circumstances set out in
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4).
(Ord. 94-10-01, passed 10-18-94) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit willful and malicious indecent
exposure of his person in any public place, on property of others or to the
view of any person on any street or highway or to appear in a public place in a
state of nudity.
('88 Code, § 14.301) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see S.C. Code § 16-15-130
§ 131.04 BAWDY HOUSES.
   The keeping of a bawdy house, disorderly house or a house of prostitution
within the corporate limits shall be deemed a misdemeanor for the owner or
lessee of any dwelling house, or other building situated within the corporate
limits, to let or sublet the dwelling house or other building to any person to
be used, or with the knowledge that the same is intended to be used, and kept
as a bawdy house or house of prostitution.
('88 Code, § 14.302) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Degree of offense, see S.C. Code § 16-15-110
   Prostitution a misdemeanor, see S.C. Code § 16-15-90
   Use of buildings for lewdness a nuisance, see S.C. Code § 15-43-10
§ 131.05 IMMORAL SOLICITATION, INFORMATION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to invite or entice any person
upon any street, public square or enclosure to accompany, go with or follow the
person to any place for immoral purposes, or to invite, entice or address any
person from any door, window, porch or portico of any house or building to
enter any house, go with or accompany the person to any place for immoral
purposes. (S.C. Code § 16-15-90) ('88 Code, § 14.303)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give information about any
house or place for immoral purposes, whether the communication be by word of
mouth, direction, telephone or in writing. (S.C. Code § 16-15-90) ('88 Code, §
14.304)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, convey or
assist by aiding, abetting, encouraging, requesting or other, in transporting,
carrying, conveying in or accompanying by any ways and means whatsoever any
person for any immoral purpose. (S.C. Code § 16-15-90) ('88 Code, § 14.305)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, rent, use or occupy any
place for immoral purposes. (S.C. Code § 15-43-10) ('88 Code, § 14.306)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 GAMBLING; GAMES OF CHANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in gambling or games of
chance within the corporate limits. ('88 Code, § 14.307)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep or maintain a
gambling house, room or any other place where people engage in gambling or
games of chance, or to permit gambling or games of chance in any building on
their premises or under their control. ('88 Code, § 14.308)
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory prohibitions, see S.C. Code § 16-19-40
§ 131.07 FORTUNE TELLING.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business, trade or profession of
fortune-telling, palmistry, phrenology, clairvoyance or the prediction of
future events by cards or other means or to offer to tell fortunes or predict
future events by palmistry, astrology, clairvoyance, cards or other means as an
inducement to promote some other business, trade or profession.
(S.C. Code § 40-41-310) ('88 Code, § 14.309) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 SCHOOL DISTURBANCES.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person willfully or unnecessarily:
      (1)   To interfere with or to disturb in any way or in any place the
students or teachers of any school;
      (2)   To loiter about the school premises;
      (3)   To act in an obnoxious manner thereon; or
   (B)   For any person to enter upon any school premises or loiter around the
premises, except on business, without the permission of the principal or person
in charge.
(S.C. Code § 16-17-420) ('88 Code, § 14.310) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance upon the
public streets or in any public place in a drunken condition. ('88 Code, §
14.311)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drink any kind of
intoxicating alcoholic beverages on the streets, alleyways, highways or other
public places. (S.C. Code § 14-25-90) ('88 Code, § 14.312)
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 131.10 SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any sidewalk or other
public place, or upon the floor, walls or any other part of any building or
room which is used by the public.
('88 Code, § 14.313) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 OBSCENE MATERIAL; DISPLAY OR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or make any indecent, obscene or
profane writing or pictures, or to make, sell, exhibit or offer for sale any
indecent or lewd book, picture or anything of like character.
(S.C. Code §§ 14-25-90, 16-15-150 and 16-15-230) ('88 Code, § 14.314) Penalty,
see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory prohibition, see S.C. Code §§ 16-15-305 et seq.
§ 131.12 INTERFERENCE WITH STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to close or in any manner interfere with
the free use of any public street or thoroughfare, sidewalk or alley without
the previous written consent of the Council.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30) ('88 Code, § 14.315) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 SHOPLIFTING.
   A person shall be guilty of shoplifting, which is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor, pursuant to the S.C. Code § 16-13-110, if he:
   (A)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers from one person to
another or from one area of a wholesale or retail mercantile establishment to
another area, or cause to be carried away or transferred any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale by any wholesale or retail
mercantile establishment with the intention of depriving the owner of the
possession, use or benefit of the merchandise without paying the full value
thereof;
   (B)   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag marking, indication
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a wholesale or
retail mercantile establishment and attempts to purchase the merchandise
personally or in consort with another at less than the established value with
the intention of depriving the owner of the full value of the merchandise; or
   (C)   Transfers any merchandise displayed, filed, stored or offered for sale
by any store or other retail mercantile establishment from the container in
which it is displayed to any other container with intent to deprive the
merchant of the full retail value.
(S.C. Code § 16-13-110) ('88 Code, § 14.317) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14 LOITERING; OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or upon any street,
park, public place or in any public building or obstruct the access to any
public building or any part thereof, or obstruct the passage of any person
through any public street, park or public place.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term “loiter” shall encompass but
shall not necessarily be limited to one or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Obstruction of the unhampered passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      (2)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully upon
any street, park or other public place; and/or
      (3)   Refusing to move when requested to do so by a police officer,
provided that the officer has exercised his discretion reasonably under the
circumstances, in order to preserve or promote public peace and order.
('88 Code, § 14.318) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
130.99.
   (B)   A person convicted of violating §
131.02 shall be subject to a fine of $100 for the first offense, a fine of $200
for each subsequent offense and/or 30 days confinement or 30 days public
service work.
(Ord. 94-10-01, passed 10-18-94)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
Section
   
132.01   False alarms
   
132.02   Firearms and weapons
   
132.03   Disorderly conduct
   
132.04   Resisting officer; failure to aid
   
132.05   Disturbing public gatherings or meetings
   
132.06   Riots
   
132.07   Picketing, demonstrations and the like
   
132.08   Noises; disturbing the peace
   
132.09   Halloween activities
   
132.10   Drug-related activities
   
132.11   Crime watch area signs
   
132.12   Communications with prisoners
   
132.13   Property returned upon separation
   
132.14   Swearing falsely under oath
Cross-reference:
   Bonfires, §
93.07
   Burning of construction or demolition debris, §
93.06
   Burning of outdoor rubbish, see §
93.05
   Fireworks, see §§
93.35 through
93.37
   Racing or drag racing, see §
71.055
§ 132.01 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give a false fire
alarm by telephoning, informing any person that an emergency exists, knowing
the same to be untrue, or in any other manner, communicating falsely to the
Fire Department that an emergency exists. ('88 Code, § 9.201)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation having a fire alarm, smoke detector or
other type of alarm, and which alarm has a direct or indirect connection which
calls for a response from the Fire Department, shall be allowed two false
alarms during any one calendar year and will be charged a fee of $50 for the
third false alarm responded to by the Fire Department within such calendar year
and $100 for each false alarm responded to thereafter within such calendar
year.
   (C)   If the possessor of the alarm shows to the satisfaction of the Fire
Chief that the false alarm was not the result of negligence or improper
maintenance such fee may be waived.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory prohibitions, see S.C. Code § 16-17-570
§ 132.02 FIREARMS AND WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed about his
person any pistol, dirk, metal knuckles, razor, ice pick, hawkbill knife or any
spring or clasp knife, which has a blade more than three inches in length, or
other weapon usually used for the infliction of personal injuries. ('88 Code, §
14.402)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry about his person, whether
concealed or not, any dirk, slingshot, metal knuckles, razor or other weapon
usually used for the infliction of personal injury or injuries. This section
shall not apply to peace officers while in the discharge of their duties. ('88
Code, § 14.403)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits, to fire or
discharge any pistol, gun, air rifle, sling shot or other device which may be
potentially harmful to any person or property. ('88 Code, § 14.410)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Pointing pistols or guns, see §
134.02
Statutory reference:
   Statutory prohibitions, see S.C. Code § 16-23-460
§ 132.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct oneself in a disorderly manner with
the purpose to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly
creating a risk thereof by:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, threatening, violent or tumultuous behavior,
breach of the peace;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noises, offensively coarse utterances, gestures
or displays or addresses of abusive language to any person present;
      (3)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the act; or
      (4)   Existence of any disorderly, lewd or indecent conduct by
scurrilous, obscene, indecent or profane writing, picture, mark or figure on
any wall, fence, house or structure.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, “public” means affecting or likely to
affect any person or persons in a place to which the public or a substantial
group has access. Among the places included are highways, transport facilities,
schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or entertainment,
governmental buildings, any neighborhood, in automobiles, and the like.
('88 Code, § 14.404) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Disturbing public gatherings or meetings, see §
132.05
   Indecent exposure, see §
131.03
   Public drunkenness, see §
131.09
§ 132.04 RESISTING OFFICER; FAILURE TO AID.
   (A)   Any person or persons who shall resist or obstruct any officer in the
discharge of his duty who shall aid or abet any person or persons in resisting
or obstructing any officer in the discharge of his duty, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, subject to the limitations prescribed by S.C. Code §§ 14-25-
65 and 16-5-50. ('88 Code, § 14.405)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each and every citizen to assist municipal
officers to arrest violators of the law when requested, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail to do so. ('88 Code, § 14.408)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly fail or
refuse to stop when signaled, hailed or commanded to stop by a policeman or
other officer. ('88 Code, § 14.606)
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
interference alleged consisted of constitutionally protected speech only.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-5-50
§ 132.05 DISTURBING PUBLIC GATHERINGS OR MEETINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or disturb any
religious worship or public gathering. (S.C. Code § 16-17-520) ('88 Code, §
14.406)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt the proceedings of
any public meeting or be guilty of disorderly conduct therein, or to commit any
contempt of either. ('88 Code, § 14.601)
Penalty, see §
130.99 
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see §
132.03
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-17-520
§ 132.06 RIOTS.
   Any person, upon conviction of engaging in a riot, rout or affray when no
weapon was actually used and no wound inflicted, shall be subject to and liable
for each offense.
(S.C. Code § 16-5-120) ('88 Code, § 14.407) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty, see S.C. Code § 16-5-120
   Other riotous acts, see S.C. Code § 16-5-130
§ 132.07 PICKETING, DEMONSTRATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to picket, parade or march unless a permit
to perform the actions has been secured. To secure a permit, those desiring
same shall make application, duly signed by the individual organizer or by an
officer of the organization, and submit it to the City Clerk between the hours
of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of each work day, for subsequent approval by the
City Administrator.
      (2)   Parade, festival and special events permits are required for any
organized event involving the use of, or having an impact on public property,
including parks, sidewalks, or public roadways. The city’s (COB) goal is to
assist event organizers in planning safe and successful events that create
minimal impacts on the communications surrounding the events.
         (a)   There is a $50 application fee for festivals, special events,
and parade permits for any non-city sponsored event (including schools,
churches, governments and 501c status).
         (b)   Applications should be submitted a minimum of 30 days prior to
the event.
         (c)   Proof of insurance and all payments must be submitted 14 days
prior to the event.
         (d)   A South Carolina Department of Transportation (SCDOT) parade
application found online at www.scdot.org must be submitted to SCDOT if streets
are to be blocked and a copy of the permit must be submitted with application.
         (e)   Outdoor cooking must meet South Carolina Department of Health
and Environmental.
         (f)   Control (SCDHEC) standards, found online at www.scdhec.gov.
         (g)   A blanket license of $100 is required for up to 15 vendors,
without city business licenses additional vendors will be an additional $25
each.
         (h)   Applicants are responsible for cleaning and restoring the
streets, sidewalks, parks, or property used immediately following each event.
         (i)   Event coordinator must also provide written permission from
Marlboro County Administration to use property located on or around the Court
House Square or any other property.
         (j)   Public restrooms are not provided by the COB.
         (k)   No illegal activities permitted that are contrary or forbidden
by local or state law, especially criminal law (i.e., gambling, fighting,
public intoxication, and disorderly conduct).
      (3)   A permit may be issued within 30 days, excluding the date the
application is submitted. The application shall state the time, duration,
purpose, the area in which the festival, special event, picketing, parading or
marching will occur and the individual, group of individuals or organization
directing and responsible for the special event.
   (B)   When picketing or engaging in “demonstrations,” no person shall:
      (1)   Use on the streets or public places any verbal abuse, including
curses, insults, threats or acts of violence, directed against any person;
      (2)   March, parade, protest or picket in any manner other than as
permitted by this section, except with the express written consent and approval
of the City Administrator;
      (3)   Engage in riotous and loud conduct which invades the privacy of
homes or businesses;
      (4)   Damage or destroy or injure the person or property of others;
      (5)   Block, in any manner, the streets and means of ingress and egress
to places of business;
      (6)   Interfere with, in any manner, or obstruct any official in the
performance of his duties;
      (7)   Interfere with, in any manner, the attendance, during school hours,
of children in the public schools, by inciting or urging them to participate in
demonstrations or for any other unlawful purpose or reason, or permitting them
to be or remain in churches or other places used in the demonstrations;
      (8)   Picket other than in accordance with the following principles:
         (a)   In small numbers;
         (b)   In a manner so as not to interfere with pedestrians or vehicular
traffic;
         (c)   In a manner so as not to block entrances or exits to or from
picketed establishments;
         (d)   No more than four pickets posted at any one time at any one
business establishment;
         (e)   No more than two business establishments picketed in the same
block at the same time;
         (f)   No picket trespassing upon the property of the business
establishment being picketed;
         (g)   Pickets patrolling on the sidewalk at a distance of not less
than eight feet from every other picket; or
         (h)   No person or persons, whether in sympathy with the pickets or
not, shall assemble, loiter, congregate or engage in any kind of picketing of
the establishment being picketed except those picketing in their official
capacity.
      (9)   “Demonstrate,” other than in accordance with the following
principles:
         (a)   Walking not more than two abreast upon the public sidewalks or
in groups of not more than 100 persons;
         (b)   Observing all traffic-control devices;
         (c)   Walking close to the building line or curb so as not to
interfere with or obstruct other pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk; or
         (d)   Assembling peacefully and speaking peacefully for a period of
time not exceeding 30 minutes and when traffic to and from places of business
or employment is not at its peak, and in circumstances as will not unduly
disrupt the public peace, and conducted in a manner as not to deprive the
public of adequate police and fire protection.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-90) ('88 Code, § 14.411) (Am. Ord. 08-06-01, passed 6-17-08;
Am. Ord. 21-07-01, passed 7-20-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.08 NOISES; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this division, except where
the context indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   CONSTRUCTION means the assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration, demolition, or site preparation for of public or private rights-of-
ways, buildings, or other structures, utilities, or property.
      (2)   DAYTIME HOURS means the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday, and the hours between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on
Sunday.
      (3)   EMERGENCY means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving
actual or imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate
action.
      (4)   EXCESSIVE NOISE means any sound, the intensity of which exceeds the
standards set forth in this section.
      (5)   PREMISES means any building, structure, land, or portion thereof,
including all appurtenances, owned or controlled by a person.
      (6)   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE equipment means all engine or motor powered
tools and equipment used occasionally in the repair and upkeep of interior
property and including but not limited to lawn mowers, riding tractors, wood
chippers, power saws, and leaf blowers.
      (7)   PUBLIC EMERGENCY sound signal means a device, either stationary or
mobile, producing audibly signals associated with a set of circumstances
involving actual of imminent danger to persons or damage to property that
demands immediate action.
      (8)   PUBLIC FACILITY MAINTENANCE means all activity related to the
clearing, cleaning, and upkeep of public roads, sidewalks, sewers, water mains,
utilities, and publicly owned property.
      (9)   SOUND means a transmission of energy through solid, liquid, or
gaseous media in the form of vibrations which constitute alterations in
pressure or position of the particles in the medium and which, in air, evoke
physiological sensations, including but not limited to an auditory response,
when impinging on the ear.
   (B)   Declaration of Policy. Excessive noise must be controlled by the city
to protect, preserve, and promote the public health, safety, and welfare. The
Council recognizes the fact that people have a right to and should be ensured
an environment free from excessive sound and vibration that may jeopardize
their health, safety, or welfare.
   (C)   Generally. Subject to the following provisions, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise in the town is prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, make or contribute to creating
any loud or disturbing noise of such character, intensity or duration to be
detrimental to the life or health of any individual or such noise as to disturb
the quiet and peace of any citizen in the town.
   (D)   Unlawful acts enumerated. The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud, disturbing or unnecessary noises and are specifically
prohibited by this section. The following shall not, however, necessarily
include all such noises as may constitute a violation of division (C) of this
section.
      (1)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horns, whistle or signal device
on any motor vehicle, except as a danger signal or as required by law, so as to
create any unreasonably loud or harsh sound or the sounding of any device for
any unreasonable amount of time is hereby prohibited.
      (2)   Sirens. The use of any gong, bell or siren on any motor vehicle
other than police, fire, rescue or other emergency vehicle permitted by is
hereby prohibited.
      (3)   Sound amplifying devices. The playing of any radio, stereo, compact
disc player, record player, tape recorder, television, musical instrument or
sound producing or sound amplifying device in such manner or with such volume
as to annoy or disturb the quiet, repose or comfort of any person in any
dwelling, hotel or other residence if hereby prohibited.
      (4)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to a
boiler except as a warning of danger, to give notice to start or stop work, or
as an indicator of time, is hereby prohibited.
      (5)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any bell, drum, loudspeaker
or other instrument for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of
noise to any performance, show, sale, display or advertisement of merchandise
is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   Emergency situations. Noise caused in the performance of emergency
work for the immediate safety, health or welfare of the community or
individuals of the community or to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity shall not be subject to the provisions of this
section.
   (F)   (1)   Exclusions from section. This section shall not apply to noise
emitted by or related to the following:
         (a)   Natural phenomena.
         (b)   The unamplified sound made by any wild animal.
         (c)   A bell or chime from any building clock, school, or church.
         (d)   A public emergency sound signal.
         (e)   Farming equipment or farming activity.
         (f)   An emergency.
         (g)   Snow removal.
      (2)   Exemptions from section. The following shall be exempt from this
section, subject to the special conditions noted:
         (a)   Noise created by the operation of property maintenance equipment
during daytime hours.
         (b)   Noise generated by any construction equipment operated during
daytime hours.
         (c)   Noise created by any recreational activities that are sanctioned
by the city, including but not limited to parades, sporting events, concerts,
and fireworks displays.
         (d)   Noise created by blasting is conducted between 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m. local time and provided that a permit for such blasting has been
obtained from state or local authorities.
         (e)   Noise created by refuse and solid waste collection, provided
that such activity is conducted between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (f)   Noise created by a fire or intrusion alarm which, from the time
of activation of the audible signal, emits noise for a period of time not
exceeding ten minutes when such alarm is attached to a vehicle or thirty
minutes when attached to any building or structure.
         (g)   Noise created by public facility maintenance during daytime
hours.
   (G)   Penalties. Any person in violation of this article shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount
not to exceed $200. In lieu of arrest and issuance of a summons, a police
officer may serve upon a violator an infraction notice, which shall be known as
a noise ticket. Payment of the fine prescribed by such noise ticket within the
time limit specified thereon shall constitute a plea of nolo contendere and
shall save the violator harmless from prosecution for the offense cited.
Statutory reference:
Municipal authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 132.09 HALLOWEEN ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person over 12 years of age to participate in
the act of “Trick or Treat” on Halloween night, and all persons under the age
shall be accompanied by a parent or responsible person. All “Trick or Treat”
activities shall end by 8:00 p.m. This section shall not apply to organized and
supervised Halloween parties.
('88 Code, § 14.414) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.10 DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The term “drug paraphernalia” is hereby defined as equipment, products
and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use or designed for use,
in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to possess drug paraphernalia within the city
with intent of selling, donating or otherwise distributing same for use to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance.
('88 Code, § 14.415) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.11 CRIME WATCH AREA SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Administrator and Police Chief shall designate “crime watch
areas” and obtain official permission, to erect signs indicating the areas,
from the South Carolina Department of Highways and Public Transportation
(SCDHPT).
   (B)   “Crime watch area” signs shall not exceed three feet by four feet and
shall be placed on highway or street rights-of-way in accordance with SCDHPT
regulations.
('88 Code, § 14.416)
§ 132.12 COMMUNICATIONS WITH PRISONERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except authorized officials, to
take anything to or in any way communicate with any prisoner confined unless
permission to do so shall have first been obtained from the Police Chief or his
deputies. ('88 Code, § 14.602)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully approach
nearer than 20 feet to any police officer who has made, is making or attempting
to make an arrest. ('88 Code, § 14.603)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.13 PROPERTY RETURNED UPON SEPARATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any employee or member of Council to fail to return
any public property entrusted to him, including this code, upon his resignation
or any other reason for separation from municipal employment or service.
('88 Code, § 14.604) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.14 SWEARING FALSELY UNDER OATH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly swear falsely
under oath in giving evidence in the Municipal Court, or at any other time or
place within the corporate limits where an oath has been taken before any
person who may be qualified to administer oaths.
('88 Code, § 14.605) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
133.01    Petty larceny
   
133.02    Damaging property
   
133.03    Failure to leave when ordered
   
133.04    Receiving stolen goods
   
133.05    Obtainment by false pretenses
   
133.06    Obtainment by impersonation of officer
   
133.07    [Reserved]
   
133.08    Trespassing
   
133.09    Fires and fireworks
   
133.10    Junkyards
   
133.11    Sneaking into public event
Cross-reference:
   Driving over fire hose, see §
93.03
   Riding on fire engines, see §
32.33
   Throwing objects, see §
134.05
§ 133.01 PETTY LARCENY.
   Petty larceny is hereby defined as any article of goods, chooses in action,
bank bills, bills receivable, chattels or other article of personalty of which,
by law, larceny may be committed or of any fixture or part or product of the
soil as was severed from the soil by an unlawful act, in value of less than
$200, and the act is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-13-30) ('88 Code, § 14.501)
Cross-reference:
   Larceny of bicycles, see §
73.09
§ 133.02 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons who shall injure any animal or who shall damage
any goods, wares or merchandise or other personal property of another person or
any public property, or who shall damage or destroy any fencing, trees,
shrubbery or buildings on the land of another or belonging to any other person
or persons shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. ('88 Code, § 14.502)
   (B)   Any person other than the owner who shall remove, destroy or leave
down any portion of any fence intended to enclose animals of any kind, crops or
uncultivated lands or who shall leave open any gate or leave down any bars or
other structure intended for a like purpose shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-11-650) ('88 Code, § 14.504)
   (C)   Any person who shall knowingly, willfully, maliciously or fraudulently
cut, fell, alter or remove any boundary tree or other allowed landmark, lamp
post, lamp or shade tree shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (S.C. Code § 16-11-
680) ('88 Code, § 14.510)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Violations a misdemeanor, see S.C. Code §§ 16-11-51(B)(3) and 16-11-520(B)
(3)
§ 133.03 FAILURE TO LEAVE WHEN ORDERED.
   Any person or persons who, when requested to leave the premises of another
or the house wherein any one or more persons shall conduct business, except
offices of public officers, shall refuse to do so, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
('88 Code, § 14.503) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see S.C. Code § 16-11-620
§ 133.04 RECEIVING STOLEN GOODS.
   Any person who shall buy, receive or have in his possession any goods or
chattels or other property, knowing the same to have been stolen, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-13-180) ('88 Code, § 14.505) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Misdemeanors limited to stolen property valued at $1,000 or less, see S.C.
Code § 16-13-180
§ 133.05 OBTAINMENT BY FALSE PRETENSES.
   Any person who shall, by any false pretense or representation, obtain the
signature of any person to any written instrument or shall obtain for any other
person any chattel, money, valuable security or other property, real or
personal, if the sum of the written instrument or the value of the property so
obtained does not exceed $200, with the intent to cheat and defraud any person
of the property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and the punishment shall be
not more than is permitted by law without presentment or indictment by the
grand jury.
(S.C. Code § 16-13-240) ('88 Code, § 14.506) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 OBTAINMENT BY IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   (A)   Whoever, with intent to defraud any government, firm or person, shall
take upon himself to act as an officer or shall in the pretension or pretended
character demand, obtain or receive from any government, firm or person any
money, paper, document or other valuable thing of a less value than $20, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. (S.C. Code § 16-13-290) ('88 Code, § 14.507)
   (B)   Anyone imitating the signal or call for a police officer, either
through mischief or otherwise, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. ('88 Code, §
14.513)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.07 [RESERVED.]
§ 133.08 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   (1)   Every entry upon the lands of another, after notice from the
owner or tenant prohibiting entry, shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   When any owner or tenant of any lands shall post a notice in four
conspicuous places on the borders of the land prohibiting entry thereon, a
proof of the posting shall be deemed and taken as notice conclusive against the
person making entry, as aforesaid, for the purpose of trespassing. ( S.C. Code
§ 16-11-600)
   (B)   Any person entering upon the lands of another for the purpose of
hunting, fishing, swimming, skiing, trapping, netting, gathering fruit, wild
flowers, cultivated flowers, shrubbery, straw, turf, vegetables or herbs or
cutting timber on the same, without the consent of the owner or manager
thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (S.C. Code § 16-11-610)
('88 Code, § 14.509) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.09 FIRES AND FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or ignite a fire or to shoot or
discharge fireworks in any place within the corporate limits that would
endanger any property or building.
('88 Code, § 14.511)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention; fireworks, see
Ch. 93
§ 133.10 JUNKYARDS.
   No junkyard, whether for automobiles, machinery or other junk equipment
shall be operated, and no license shall be issued for a business. This section
shall not apply to junk dealers who maintain their business in a completely
enclosed building or which is fenced from the view of the general public.
('88 Code, § 14.512)
§ 133.11 SNEAKING INTO PUBLIC EVENT.
   (A)   Prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for any person, where an admission
charge is made, to gain admittance to any athletic contest or other public
event, without paying the price of admission.
   (B)   Witnessing event. It shall be unlawful for any person, unless upon his
own premises, to witness an athletic contest or other public event, where an
admission is charged, without paying the price of the admission.
   (C)   Aiding and abetting. It shall be unlawful for any person to aid, abet
or assist in any way any other person to witness any athletic contest or other
public event without the person paying the admission charge.
('88 Code, § 14.514) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
134.01    Assault and battery
   
134.02    Pointing pistols or guns
   
134.03    Abandoned refrigerators
   
134.04    Abandoned wells
   
134.05    Throwing objects
   
134.06    Nuisances
§ 134.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or assaults and
battery upon any other person.
('88 Code, § 14.701) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory prohibitions, see S.C. Code § 16-3-610
§ 134.02 POINTING PISTOLS OR GUNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to point at any other person any
loaded or unloaded firearm.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to abridge the right of
self-defense or to apply to theatrical or like performances or to peace
officers in the discharge of their duties.
(S.C. Code § 16-23-410) ('88 Code, § 14.702) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Firearms and weapons, see §
132.02
§ 134.03 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard an icebox,
refrigerator, ice chest or any type of airtight container of a capacity
sufficient to contain any child, to neglect, prior to the abandonment, to
remove the door, lid or other device for the closing thereof or for any owner,
lessee or other person in charge of property to knowingly permit any airtight
container to be placed on property under his control.
(S.C. Code § 16-3-1010) ('88 Code, § 14.703) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 ABANDONED WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant to permit or allow any
abandoned well to remain open and unprotected, curbed or fenced in, or any
place or premises within the corporate limits.
(S.C. Code § 16-3-1020) ('88 Code, § 14.704) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 THROWING OBJECTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any stone, stick or other
object whereby any person may be or shall be hit or hurt, or any window broken
or other property belonging to another damaged or destroyed.
('88 Code, § 14.705) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.06 NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a nuisance in the
corporate limits. The term “nuisance” may include everything that gives offense
to senses, violates the laws of decency or obstructs reasonable and comfortable
use of property.
('88 Code, § 14.706) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation, see
Chapter 94
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         APPENDIX: PERMIT FEES
      
151.   STREET NAMING; ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
152.   ZONING
         APPENDIX A: SIGN REGULATIONS
         APPENDIX B: SIGNS; NUMBERS AND LOCATIONS
         APPENDIX C: SIGN TYPES; ILLUSTRATIONS
         APPENDIX D: YARD AND SETBACK DIAGRAM
         APPENDIX E: BUFFER AREA DIAGRAMS
         APPENDIX F: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING DIAGRAMS
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   State provisions; adoption of standard codes
   
150.02   Building permits required; fees
   
150.03   Industrial buildings; appeals
   
150.04   Building removal permit; fee
   
150.05   Nonresident contractors
   
150.06   Licensed contractors
   
150.07   Utility connections
   
150.08   Alternate materials and methods
   
150.09   Homeowner’s provisions
   
150.10   Repairs and maintenance
   
150.11   Effects of rights or proceedings
   
150.12   Liability
   
150.13   Enforcement; appeals
Unfit Housing
   
150.25   Legislative findings
   
150.26   Definitions
   
150.27   Petitions; complaint and hearing
   
150.28   Orders determining fitness
   
150.29   Standards; conditions
   
150.30   Service of complaints and orders
   
150.31   Sale of materials; proceeds
   
150.32   Housing Enforcement Officer
   
150.33   Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals
   
150.34   Appeals
   
150.35   Supplemental provisions
   
Appendix: Permit Fees
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Chapter 153
   Fair Housing, see
Chapter 92
   Street Naming; Address Numbering, see
Chapter 151
   Suitable toilet facilities, see §
94.07
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATE PROVISIONS; ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES.
   (A)   Should any conflict arise between the provisions of this chapter and
any South Carolina law, rule or regulation, the provisions of state law shall
prevail and be controlling. (‘88 Code, § 5.101)
   (B)   (1)   The current edition of the International Building Codes,
together with the current amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference,
as amended by South Carolina Building Codes Council Mandatory and Permissive
Codes.
         (a)   International Building Code, including Chapter 1;
         (b)   International Residential Code;
         (c)   International Fire Code;
         (d)   International Mechanical Code;
         (e)   International Energy Conservation Code;
         (f)   International Plumbing Code;
         (g)   International Fuel Gas Code;
         (h)   Electrical Code, National;
         (i)   International Property Maintenance Code;
         (j)   International Existing Building Code;
         (k)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
      (2)   The Council reserves the right to make modifications in the codes,
as amendments thereto are promulgated by the issuing authority.
(‘88 Code, § 5.107) (Am. Ord. passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 16-06-001, passed 6-21-
16)
§ 150.02 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No building or structure, nor any additions thereto, shall be erected
or constructed unless a permit has been issued by the Building Inspector and a
fee paid as may be required by standard codes, when adopted, or this code. (‘88
Code, § 5.102)
   (B)   Permit fees shall be charged as set forth in the various codes adopted
by the Council. See
Appendix . (‘88 Code, § 5.117)
§ 150.03 INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS; APPEALS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation desiring to construct, erect or use a
building for industrial purposes, shall do so without first applying for a
permit.
   (B)   If the permit is not approved, the applicant may appeal the decision
to the City Council.
(‘88 Code, § 5.103)
§ 150.04 BUILDING REMOVAL PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   No house or building shall be moved within the corporate limits until
a permit has been obtained therefor. The Building Inspector shall not issue a
permit if, in his judgment, the proposed new location of the building would
seriously increase fire hazards to surrounding buildings. A fee of $150 shall
be charged for the permit. ( S.C. Code § 5-25-330) (‘88 Code, § 5.104)
   (B)   For the demolition of any building or structure, the fee shall be
$150. (‘88 Code, § 5.119)
(Am. Ord. 09-11-01, passed 11-17-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.05 NONRESIDENT CONTRACTORS.
   It shall be unlawful for a nonresident contractor to commence any work until
a business license has been obtained therefor.
(‘88 Code, § 5.105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 LICENSED CONTRACTORS.
   All services regulated by the International Code Council Codes, when not
performed by the owner of the property, shall be performed by contractors
licensed by the state, unless otherwise authorized by the Council.
(‘88 Code, § 5.106) (Am. Ord. 16-06-001, passed 6-21-16)
§ 150.07 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   No supplier of water, gas or electric service shall initiate service to a
building unless the owner thereof has been issued a building permit or
certificate of occupancy.
(‘88 Code, § 5.112)
§ 150.08 ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS.
   The Building Official, or a person designated by Council, may authorize the
use of alternate materials or construction methods, provided the proposed
design complies with the provisions of the International Residential Code or
the International Building Code.
(‘88 Code, § 5.113) (Am. Ord. 16-06-001, passed 6-21-16)
§ 150.09 HOMEOWNER’S PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent any homeowner from installing or
maintaining buildings, electrical wiring or plumbing within his own property
boundaries, provided the work is done by himself and is used exclusively by him
or his family. The privilege does not convey the right to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter, neither is it to be construed as exempting any
property owner from obtaining a permit after having work inspected.
(‘88 Code, § 5.115)
§ 150.10 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   Ordinary minor repairs and general maintenance may be made without a permit;
provided, that the repairs shall not violate any of the provisions of this
code. Examples of minor repairs and general maintenance shall include, but not
be limited to, painting, reroofing less than 100 square feet, carpeting, etc.
(‘88 Code, § 5.116) (Am. Ord. 16-06-001, passed 6-21-16)
§ 150.11 EFFECTS ON RIGHTS OR PROCEEDINGS.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the codes adopted by §
150.01(B) shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding now pending in
any court or any rights acquired or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes
of action accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor
shall any right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by
this subchapter.
(‘88 Code, § 5.120)
§ 150.12 LIABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
building, electrical, gas or plumbing equipment from damages to anyone injured
thereby, nor shall the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of
inspection authorized herein or certificate issued.
(‘88 Code, § 5.114)
§ 150.13 ENFORCEMENT: APPEALS.
   (A)   Within the codes, when reference is made to the duties of certain
officials named therein, the official whose duties shall correspond thereto
shall be deemed to be the responsible official for enforcement. (‘88 Code, §
5.109)
   (B)   Appeals from the decision of the Building Official shall be to the
Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals. (‘88 Code, § 5.111)
(Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
UNFIT HOUSING
§ 150.25 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city finds that there exists in the city certain dwellings which
are unfit for human habitation due to:
      (1)   Dilapidation;
      (2)   Defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other
calamities;
      (3)   Lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; or
      (4)   Other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary,
dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety or morals or otherwise inimical
to the welfare of the residents of the city.
   (B)   The city deems it necessary to exercise its police powers to repair,
close or demolish any dwelling in the manner herein provided, pursuant to the
provisions of S.C. Code § 31-15-10 et seq., as the same may be from time to
time amended.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-20) (‘88 Code, § 5.201)
§ 150.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ZONING AND HOUSING APPEALS. A board appointed by the Mayor, with
the approval of a majority of the Council, which shall have the powers
described in this subchapter, in addition to any other powers granted to the
Board by this code and any other ordinance or act of the city.
   DWELLINGS. Any building, structure or part thereof, used and occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used, including any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
   HOUSING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An individual appointed by the City
Administrator who shall have powers described in this subchapter, in addition
to any other powers granted to the officer by this code and any other ordinance
or act of the city.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a dwelling
and any who are in possession thereof.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-10) (‘88 Code, § 5.202) (Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 150.27 PETITIONS; COMPLAINT AND HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Enforcement Officer by
any official of the city or any department head having duties relating to
health, fire or building regulations or to any other activities concerning
dwellings in the city, or by at least five residents of the city, charging that
any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the
Enforcement Officer, on his own motion, that any dwelling is unfit for human
habitation, he shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
the charges, issue and cause to be served a complaint upon the owner of and all
parties of interest in the dwelling.
   (B)   The complaint shall state the charges in that respect and contain a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Enforcement Officer or his
designated agent, at a place therein fixed, not less than ten days nor more
than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. The owner and parties in
interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to
appear in person or to otherwise give testimony at the place and time fixed in
the complaint.
   (C)   The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not
be controlling in hearings before the Enforcement Officer.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-30(2)) (‘88 Code, § 5.203)
§ 150.28 ORDERS DETERMINING FITNESS.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing as provided above, the Housing
Enforcement Officer determines that the dwelling under consideration is unfit
for human habitation, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support
of the determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner
thereof an order, providing as follows:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, which
reasonable cost is hereby determined as 50% or less of the value of the
dwelling, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to
repair, alter or improve the dwelling to render it fit for human habitation or
to vacate and close the dwelling as a human habitation; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, which
reasonable cost is hereby determined as 50% or less of the value of the
dwelling, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to
remove or demolish the dwelling.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-30(3)) (‘88 Code, § 5.204)
   (B)   (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or to vacate and close a dwelling, the Housing Enforcement Officer may
cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and
closed. The Enforcement Officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of
any dwelling so closed a placard with the following words: “This building is
unfit for human habitation. The usage or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful.” (S.C. Code § 31-15-30(4))
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the dwelling, the Enforcement Officer may cause the dwelling to be removed or
demolished. (S.C. Code § 31-15-30(5))
      (3)   The amount of the cost of the repairs, alterations or improvements,
vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the Housing Enforcement
Officer shall be a lien against the real property upon which cost was incurred,
and said cost shall be added to the annual property tax levied on the property
and shall be collected in the same manner as the annual property tax. Said
costs shall be forwarded by the appropriate City of Bennettsville Official to
the Marlboro County Treasurer for collection in the manner set forth above.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-30(6))
(‘88 Code, § 5.205) (Am. Ord. 017-11-01, passed 11-21-17)
§ 150.29 STANDARDS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Housing Enforcement Officer may determine that a dwelling is unfit
for human habitation if he finds that conditions exist in the dwelling which
are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of
the dwelling, the occupants of neighboring dwellings or other residents of the
city.
   (B)   Conditions may include the following:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities;
      (2)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; or
      (3)   Dilapidation, disrepair, structural defects or uncleanliness.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-50) (‘88 Code, § 5.206)
§ 150.30 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Enforcement Officer pursuant to
this subchapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. If the whereabouts of the persons are unknown
and cannot be ascertained by the Enforcement Officer in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, and he shall make an affidavit to that effect, the
serving of the complaint or order upon the persons may be made by publishing it
once a week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper printed and published in
the city. A copy of the complaint or order also shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order. A copy of
the complaint or order also shall be filed with the County Court Clerk as a lis
pendens.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-60) (‘88 Code, § 5.207)
§ 150.31 SALE OF MATERIALS; PROCEEDS.
   If a dwelling is removed or demolished by the Housing Enforcement Officer,
he shall sell the materials of the dwelling and shall credit the proceeds of
the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining
shall be deposited in the Circuit Court by the Enforcement Officer, secured in
the manner as may be directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court
to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the
court.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-90) (‘88 Code, § 5.209)
§ 150.32 HOUSING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Housing Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to exercise the powers
as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effect the purposes and
provisions of this subchapter, including the following powers in addition to
others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations;
provided, that the entries are made in a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and employees,
with the approval of the City Administrator, as he deems necessary to carry out
the purposes of this subchapter; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his functions and powers under this subchapter to
the officers and agents as he may designate.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-80) (‘88 Code, § 5.208)
§ 150.33 BOARD OF ZONING AND HOUSING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals shall have all of the powers granted
to the Housing Enforcement Officer herein and may carry out its orders through
its own actions or those of the Enforcement Officer or other officers and
agents as it may designate.
(‘88 Code, § 5.214) (Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 150.34 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person receiving an order from the Housing Enforcement Officer
may, within 15 days following the date of the notice, enter an appeal in
writing to the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals. The appeal shall state the
location of the property, the date of the notice of violations and the number
of the notice. The appellant shall state the variance or modification
requested, the reasons therefor and the hardship or conditions upon which the
appeal is made. No appeal filed later than 15 days after the date of the notice
shall be acted upon by the Board, unless the Building Official shall consent
thereto. (‘88 Code, § 5.210)
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals shall notify the
appellant at least seven days in advance of the date of a hearing set on his
appeal, stating the time and place of the hearing. The Board may consider any
matter contained in the record of the Housing Enforcement Officer and may take
any additional testimony that may be offered by the appellant or the
Enforcement Officer. After the hearing on appeal, the Board shall report its
findings of fact in support of its determination on the issues, which may
affirm, modify or reject the findings of fact, determinations and orders of the
enforcement officer, and shall cause such to be served upon the appellant
owner.
      (2)   The Board may establish its own rules of procedure, provided the
rules are not in conflict with this subchapter or the laws of the state. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in appeals or hearings before the Board.
(‘88 Code, § 5.211)
   (C)   The Housing Enforcement Officer shall not take any action on an order
issued by him until after the 15-day period for the owner to appeal to the
Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals. An appeal to the Board shall operate a
stay of the order of the Enforcement Officer until the appeal is heard and the
Board has issued its order. (‘88 Code, § 5.212)
   (D)   Any person affected by this subchapter shall have the right to appeal
to a court of competent jurisdiction within 60 days from any order of the Board
of Zoning and Housing Appeals Officer, or within 60 days of any order from the
Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals as provided in S.C. Code § 31-15-70. Any
order of the Board shall state that the owner has the right to appeal to a
state court of competent jurisdiction as provided in the section. The Housing
Enforcement Officer shall, from the time an appeal is made and one issue is
resolved, stay any further action on his part with regard to the dwelling in
question. (‘88 Code, § 5.213)
(Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 150.35 SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not abrogate the powers of any other
department of the city or repeal any criminal ordinance but shall be in
addition to and is supplemental to any other provision of this code and any
other ordinance of the city. The procedures enumerated in this subchapter shall
be the procedures followed in dealing with dwellings unfit for human
habitation, the provisions of any previously adopted standard housing code
notwithstanding.
(‘88 Code, § 5.215)
APPENDIX: PERMIT FEES
Section
§ 1 PERMIT FEES.
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation          Fee
$1 to $500               $25
                         $30 up to the first $1,000 plus $5 for each additional
$501 to $50,000          thousand or fraction thereof, to and including
                         $50,000.
                         $260 for the first $50,000 plus $4 for each additional
$50,001 to $100,000      thousand or fraction thereof, to and including
                         $100,000
                         $460 for the first $100,000 plus $3 for each
$100,000 to $500,000     additional thousand or fraction thereof, to and
                         including $500,000.
                         $3,827 for the first $500,001 plus $5 for each
$500,001 to $1,000,000   additional $1,000 or fraction thereof up to and
                         including $1,000,000.
                         $6,327 for the first $1,000,001 to $5,000,000 plus $3
$1,000,001 to $5,000,000 for each additional $1,000 and a fraction thereof up
                         to and including $5,000,000.
$5,000,001 and over      $18,327 for the first $5,000,001 plus $1 for each
                         additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
 
(Am. Ord. 09-11-01, passed 11-17-09; Am. Ord. 15-05-001, passed 5-19-15)
§ 2 MOVING FEE.
   For the moving of any building or structure, the fee shall be $150.
(Am. Ord. 09-11-01, passed 11-17-09)
§ 3 DEMOLITION FEE.
   For the demolition of any building or structures, the fee shall be $150.
(Am. Ord. 09-11-01, passed 11-17-09)
§ 4 PENALTIES.
   Where work for which a permit is required by this code is started or
proceeded prior to obtaining said permit, the fees herein specified shall be
doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any persons from
fully complying with the requirements of this code in the execution of the work
nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
§ 5 PLAN-CHECKING FEES.
   When the valuation of the proposed construction exceeds $1,000 and a plan is
required to be submitted by § 104.2 of the Standard Building Code, 1997, a
plan-checking fee shall be paid to the building official at the time of
submitting plans and specifications for checking. Said plan-checking fee shall
be equal to one-half of the building permit fee as set forth in 104.7 of the
Standard Building Code, 1997. Such plan-checking fee is in addition to the
building permit fee.
CHAPTER 151: STREET NAMING; ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Establishment
   
151.02   Base lines
   
151.03   Administration
Street Naming
   
151.15   Prefixes and suffixes
   
151.16   Extension streets
   
151.17   Duplicate street names
   
151.18   Maximum letters and spaces
   
151.19   Directional abbreviations
   
151.20   Street sign expense
   
151.21   Sign printing specifications
   
151.22   New subdivision streets
   
151.23   Name changes
   
151.24   Public hearings
   
151.25   Private street names
   
151.26   Approval
Address Numbering
   
151.35   Base line originations
   
151.36   Number interval determinations
   
151.37   Assignment and placement of numbers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a system for providing distinct street
names and address numbering for all streets in the jurisdiction of
Bennettsville, and beyond corporate limits of the municipality, as elected.
   (B)   All address property shall be numbered and all streets shall be named
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.02 BASE LINES.
   Baselines are hereby established dividing the city into northern, southern,
eastern and western parts.
   (A)   North/south boundary shall be Main Street.
   (B)   East/west boundary shall be Broad Street (Highway 38).
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the planning staff to officially inform
any party applying for official street name or the address number of property
as provided for in this chapter.
      (2)   In case of conflict as to the official street name or the proper
number to be assigned to any building, the planning staff shall make the final
determination.
   (B)   Whenever any house, building or other structure shall be erected or
located in the area of the jurisdiction of this chapter after the effective
date of this chapter, in order to preserve the continuity and uniformity of
address numbering, it shall be the duty of the owner to obtain the correct
number as designated by the planning staff for the property and to fasten the
assigned number upon property as provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued for any house, building or other
structure until the owner has procured from the planning staff the official
street number address of the property.
   (D)   In order to facilitate correct numbering, a plat book of all streets
within the jurisdiction of this chapter showing the assigned numbers of all
houses or buildings fronting upon all streets shall be kept on file in the
office of the planning staff. These plats shall be open to inspection during
the planning staff office hours.
   (E)   (1)   For the purpose of clarifying and systematizing the street
naming and numbering pattern in the area of the jurisdiction of this chapter
and to implement the application of the matters set forth in this chapter, the
planning staff is hereby authorized to prepare and present to the City Council
a complete plan for the naming of all streets within the city and for the
numbering of all property thereon.
      (2)   The planning staff shall follow the general requirements set forth
in this chapter.
   (F)   The City Council, by ordinance, may name or rename an existing or
newly established street within the limits of the city at any time after the
adoption of this chapter after receiving a recommendation from the planning
staff in accordance with the provisions of Act No. 487, South Carolina Acts of
1967.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
STREET NAMING
§ 151.15 PREFIXES AND SUFFIXES.
   (A)   Signs for streets that cross baselines shall carry the appropriate
directional prefix (north, south, east or west), as described below, and shall
constitute part of the name of the particular street as a prefix. For example,
400 West Main Street and 400 East Main Street.
      (1)   All streets crossing the north/south base line and running
northerly shall bear the prefix “N” or “North” for that section of the street
lying north of the north/south base line.
      (2)   All streets crossing the north/south base line and running
southerly shall bear the prefix “S” or “South” for that section of the street
lying south of the north/south base line.
      (3)   All streets crossing the east/west base line and running easterly
shall bear the prefix “E” or “East” for that section of the street lying east
of the east/west base line.
      (4)   All streets crossing the east-west base line and running westerly
shall bear the prefix “W” or “West” for that section of the street lying West
of the east/west base line.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, all new streets and all
existing streets undergoing a change of name shall be identified as “Street” or
“Avenue” unless otherwise provided for below.
      (1)   Any street that is basically curvilinear and longer than 1,000 feet
in length shall be designated as “Drive.”
      (2)   Any street longer than 1,000 feet and not curvilinear shall be
designated as “Road.”
      (3)   Any street less than 1,000 feet in length, any street that is a
cul-de-sac, or any street that begin and ends on the same street without being
crossed by any other street shall be designated as a “Court,” “Terrace,”
“Circle,” “Way,” “Lane,” “Loop” or “Place.”
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.16 EXTENSION STREETS.
   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with other existing
streets shall be designated as an extension of the existing street and bear the
name of the existing street.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.17 DUPLICATE STREET NAMES.
   In no case shall names of proposed streets duplicate or be phonetically
similar to existing street names, irrespective of the use of suffix and/or
prefix.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.18 MAXIMUM LETTERS AND SPACES.
   The maximum number of street name characters and spaces, including the
suffix, shall not exceed a total of 48. Directional prefixes, such as “N” or
“NE” shall not exceed two spaces.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.19 DIRECTIONAL ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   The following list of abbreviations shall be used as the official list
of abbreviations in identifying road names.
      (1)   Annex: Anx.
      (2)   Apartment: Apt.
      (3)   Avenue: Av.
      (4)   Block: Blk.
      (5)   Boulevard: Blvd.
      (6)   Building: Bldg.
      (7)   Center: Ctr.
      (8)   Circle: Cir.
      (9)   Court: Ct.
      (10)   Depot: Dep.
      (11)   District: Dist.
      (12)   Drive: Dr.
      (13)   *East: E.
      (14)   Expressway: Expwy.
      (15)   Extension: Ext.
      (16)   Freeway: Frwy.
      (17)   Heights: Hts.
      (18)   Highway: Hwy.
      (19)   Junction: Jctn.
      (20)   Lake: Lk.
      (21)   Lane: Ln.
      (22)   Market: Mkt.
      (23)   Mount: Mt.
      (24)   Neck: Nk.
      (25)   *North: N.
      (26)   Northeast: NE.
      (27)   Northwest: NW.
      (28)   Park: Pk.
      (29)   Parkway: Pkwy.
      (30)   Place: Pl.
      (31)   Point: Pt.
      (32)   Promenade: Prom.
      (33)   Rear: Rr.
      (34)   Road: Rd.
      (35)   Route: Rt.
      (36)   Row: Row.
      (37)   Saint: St.
      (38)   *South: S.
      (39)   Southeast: SE.
      (40)   Southwest: SW.
      (41)   Square: Sq.
      (42)   Station: Sta.
      (43)   Street: St.
      (44)   Terminal: Term.
      (45)   Terrace: Terr.
      (46)   Throughway: Thrwy.
      (47)   Trail: Tr.
      (48)   Turnpike: Trnpk.
      (49)   Walk: Wk.
      (50)   Warehouse: Whse.
      (51)   Way: Way.
      (52)   *West: W.
      (53)   Yard: Yd.
   (B)   When an asterisk precedes a designation above, when used with lettered
streets, the directional name should be spelled in full. For example, North L
Avenue.
   (C)   When numerical names are used for street names, the number shall be
used in place of the word, as illustrated below. For example, 511 First Street
shall be abbreviated to 511 1st St.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.20 STREET SIGN EXPENSE.
   The city shall bear the expense for street signs, except in situations of
resident petitioned street name changes, in which case the residents shall bear
the required expense, or with new subdivisions in which case the developer
shall bear the expense of street signs.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.21 SIGN PRINTING SPECIFICATIONS.
   Street signs shall be printed and erected in accordance with the guidelines
outlined for the city.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.22 NEW SUBDIVISION STREETS.
   New subdivision plans shall include proposed street names to be approved by
the planning staff in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.23 NAME CHANGES.
   The Bennettsville planning staff may recommend to City Council a change in
the name of any street within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (A)   When there is duplication of names or other conditions which tend to
confuse the traveling public or the delivery of mail, orders or messages;
   (B)   At the petition of 75% of the street residents; or
   (C)   Upon any other good and just reason that may appear to the planning
staff.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.24 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The planning staff shall publish notice of the street name public
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction of this
chapter, not less than 15 days before the public hearing, and the planning
staff shall conduct a public hearing on name, or proposed change of name. The
planning staff shall submit a written report to City Council containing its
recommendation within 30 days after the public hearing. The City Council shall,
within 30 days after receipt of the written report, determine whether or not
the street shall be named as proposed.
   (B)   If the name of the street is adopted by the City Council, the City
Council shall cause its resolution to be issued designating the name. This
resolution shall be recorded in the office of the planning staff and in the
office of the Bennettsville Court Clerk and the name so changed and certified
shall thereafter be the legal name of the street or road.
   (C)   Written notice of the change shall be given by the planning staff to
every property owner on the affected street, area utility companies, area
postmaster, emergency medical service, Bennettsville Fire Department, Police
Department, Tax Assessor, County Planning and County Public Works Department.
Tax maps shall be amended to show official street names.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.25 PRIVATE STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Private street property owners shall be contacted and notified that a
proposed name for each private street must be submitted to the planning staff
within 30 days of the written notification.
   (B)   After 30 days, the private street will receive a utility name approved
by the planning staff, for the street identification purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.26 APPROVAL.
   (A)   A local planning commission created under the provisions of this
chapter shall, by proper certificate, approve and authorize the name of a
street or road laid out within the territory over which the commission has
jurisdiction. It is unlawful for a person in laying out a new street or road to
name the street or road on a plat, by a marking or in a deed or instrument
without first getting the approval of the planning commission. Any person
violating this provision is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must
be punished in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   A commission may, after reasonable notice (15 days) through a
newspaper having general circulation in which the commission is created and
exists, change the name of a street or road within the boundary of its
territorial jurisdiction:
      (1)   When there is duplication of names or other conditions which tend
to confuse the traveling public or the delivery of mail, orders, or messages;
      (2)   When it is found that a change may simplify marking or giving of
directions to persons seeking to locate addresses; and
      (3)   Upon any other good and just reason that may appear to the
commission.
   (C)   On the name being changed, after reasonable opportunity for a public
hearing, the planning commission shall issue its certificate designating the
change, which must be recorded in the office of the register of mesne
conveyances or Clerk of Court, and the name changed and certified is the legal
name of the street or road.
   (D)   Written notice of the change shall be given by the planning staff to
every property owner on the affected street, area utility companies, area
postmaster, Emergency Medical Service, Bennettsville Fire Department,
Bennettsville Police Department, Tax Assessor, County Planning, and County
Public Works Department. Tax maps shall be amended to show official street
names.
(Ord. 00-08-02, passed 8-15-00)
ADDRESS NUMBERING
§ 151.35 BASE LINE ORIGINATIONS.
   (A)   The numbering of property on each street shall begin at the base line
or zero point. All buildings or property facing streets not extending through
to the base line shall be assigned the same relative numbers as if the street
did extend to the base line.
   (B)   All property on the south side of east-west streets and on the east
side of north-south streets shall bear even numbers. All property on the north
side of east-west streets and on the west side of north-south streets shall
bear odd numbers.
      (1)   Property north of the north-south base line and facing a street
determined to run in a northerly direction shall carry an assigned number and
address indicating its location north of the base line.
      (2)   Property south of the north-south base line and facing a street
determined to run in a southerly direction shall carry an assigned number and
address indicating its location south of the base line.
      (3)   Property east of the east-west base line and facing a street
determined to run in an easterly direction shall carry an assigned number and
address indicating its location east of the base line.
      (4)   Property west of the east-west baseline and facing a street
determined to run in a westerly direction shall carry an assigned number and
address indicating its location west of the base line.
      (5)   Property facing a diagonal street shall be numbered the same as if
facing a northerly and southerly street if the diagonal runs more north/south;
likewise, each building or property facing a diagonal street shall be numbered
the same as if facing an easterly and westerly street if the diagonal runs more
east/west.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.36 NUMBER INTERVAL DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum frontage. Property shall be assigned on the basis of one
number for each 30 foot frontage minimum along the street, except as determined
appropriate by the planning staff for business districts.
   (B)   Grid lines. Grid lines, as shown on the property numbering map, shall
indicate the point at which all numbers shall change to the next higher hundred
number interval.
   (C)   Multiple entrances. Where any building has more than one frontage
entrance, a separate number shall be assigned for each entrance that serves a
separate occupant. Should two or more entrances fall within the same grid
number interval, a separate number interval may be assigned if the total
address numbers within the grid do not exceed the next higher hundred interval,
or letter suffixes may be used.
   (D)   Main entrance. Buildings shall be assigned numbers following a
sequence after the numbering interval in which the main entrance of the
building falls. If the main entrance of a building falls exactly upon the line
which divides one interval from the next higher interval, the number of either
interval may be assigned to that entrance.
   (E)   Multiple-family dwellings. A multiple-family dwelling having only one
main entrance shall be assigned only one number, and separate apartments in the
building shall carry a letter designation such as A, B, C or sequential numbers
such as 1, 2, 3 or 101, 102, 103, and the like.
   (F)   Rear buildings. Any building to the rear of another building fronting
on a street or alley shall carry a fractional suffix number in addition to the
number assigned to the building having frontage on the street.
   (G)   Maximum number of address characters. Address numbers shall not exceed
eight characters and address number suffixes shall not exceed four characters.
   (H)   Duplexes, triplexes, and the like. A duplex, triplex, and the like,
house having two or more front entrances shall be assigned only one number and
a letter designation such as A, B or C.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
§ 151.37 ASSIGNMENT AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Assignment responsibility.
      (1)   The planning staff shall assign to each address property located on
any street or public way in the jurisdiction of this chapter its respective
number under the system provided for in this chapter. Existing numbers shall be
changed only where it is necessary in the judgement of the planning staff to
maintain the order and uniformity sought by this chapter.
      (2)   House numbers shall be assigned in all new subdivisions. The
planning department staff shall provide appropriate address numbers. The
planning staff shall approve the numbers as necessary to maintain a systematic
organized location system.
   (B)   Notifications. Written notification of the proper address of each
address property shall be provided to the owner, occupant or agent of each
property, the postmaster and utility companies.
   (C)   Placement.
      (1)   The numbers shall be placed on existing buildings within 30 days
after the date of notification. The numbers shall not be less than three inches
in height and shall be durable and clearly visible, contrasting the color of
the building.
      (2)   The numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately on, above or
at the side of the front door of each building so that the property number can
be plainly identified from the street and also facing mail delivery traffic on
mail boxes. Whenever any building is situated more than 50 feet from the street
line, the property number shall also be placed near the walk, driveway or
common entrance to the building attached to the appropriate structure so as to
be easily identified from the street.
      (3)   When a house or other building has been assigned its respective
number, the owner, occupant or agent shall place or cause to be placed upon
each structure the number assigned as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 89-09-0, passed 10-10-89)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Zoning districts and map established
   
152.004   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.005   Changes to boundaries
   
152.006   Custodian of map
   
152.007   Conflict and greater restrictions
Zoning District Regulations
   
152.020   A-1, single-family residential
   
152.021   A-2, single- and two-family
   
152.022   A-3, multi-family residential
   
152.023   A-4, general residential
   
152.024   ROI-1, residential, office and institutional
   
152.025   C-1, central commercial
   
152.026   C-2, highway and neighborhood commercial
   
152.027   U-1, industrial
   
152.028   HPD, historic preservation
   
152.029   MH-1, planned development for mobile homes
   
152.030   W-1, wildlife and marine
   
152.031   DBOZD, Downtown Bennettsville Overlay Zoning District
   
152.032   Cemetery regulations
Sign Regulations
   
152.045   Purpose
   
152.046   Applicability; conformance
   
152.047   Signs on private property
   
152.048   Common signage plan required
   
152.049   Signs in public right-of-way
   
152.050   Temporary signs
   
152.051   Development standards
   
152.052   Sign measurement
   
152.053   Removal
Off-Street Regulations
   
152.065   Requirements
   
152.066   Location on other property
   
152.067   Extensions into residential districts
   
152.068   Joint use of off-site facilities
   
152.069   Design standards
   
152.070   Loading requirements
General Regulations
   
152.085   Nonconforming uses
   
152.086   Flood hazard areas
   
152.087   Modifications of lot area and yard requirements
   
152.088   Visibility at intersections
   
152.089   Accessory buildings and uses; apartments
   
152.090   Access to structures required
   
152.091   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
152.092   Temporary uses
   
152.093   Annexed property
   
152.094   Use of land or structures
   
152.095   Buffer areas
   
152.096   Screening and landscaping; tree protection
   
152.097   Impervious surface standards
   
152.098   Bed and breakfast inns
   
152.099   Townhouses
   
152.100   Patio and zero lot line housing projects
   
152.101   Horse stables
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.115   Administrative officer
   
152.116   Building and sign permits; application
   
152.117   Certificates of compliance
   
152.118   Complaints; appeals
   
152.119   Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals
   
152.120   Amendments
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Sign regulations
   
Appendix B: Permitted signs; numbers and locations
   
Appendix C: Sign types; illustrations
   
Appendix D: Yard and setback diagram
   
Appendix E: Buffer area diagrams
   
Appendix F: Landscaping and screening diagrams
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Chapter of the
City of Bennettsville, South Carolina.”
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Words not defined herein shall have the meanings stated in the
Standard Building Code, Standard Plumbing Code, Standard Gas Code or
International Fire Code. Words not defined in the codes shall have the meanings
in Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary, as revised.
   (C)   Words in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the
singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
   ABUTTING. Having a common border with or being separated from the common
border by an easement.
   ADULT USES. Any establishment or use which, as one of its principal
purposes, sells, displays or exhibits materials, including books, magazines,
movies, tapes, photographs, and the like, which appeal to prurient interests,
contain patently offensive depictions of sexual conduct, and have no serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   ALTERATION. A change in the external architectural features of any historic
structure or in the interior of any such structure if the interior feature is
specifically included in the historic designation; a change in the landscape
features of any historic site or place; or work having an adverse effect upon
designated archaeological resources.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. Any owner-occupied dwelling or portion thereof
offering five or fewer guest rooms to transient lodgers in return for
compensation, with or without meals. If meals are served, they shall be
restricted to breakfast only. The use of a dwelling as a BED AND BREAKFAST INN
shall not be considered as an accessory use nor a customary home occupation.
   BOARD OF ZONING AND HOUSING APPEALS. The Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals
for the city.
   BUILDABLE AREA. That portion of any lot which may be used or built upon in
accordance with the regulations governing the zoning district within which the
lot is located when the front, side and rear yard, open space and applicable
buffer area requirements have been met.
   BUILDING.
      (1)   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate structure on the same lot as the
principal or main building or incidental to the principal use. Included in this
definition are private garages, storage sheds, workshops, animal shelters, pool
houses, and the like, when detached from the principal building and carports
attached to the principal building when at least 75% open or unenclosed.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted or in which is
intended to be conducted, the main or principal use of the lot on which it is
located.
   BUILDING ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the
exterior architectural features of a structure, including but not limited to
the erection, construction, reconstruction or removal of any structure.
   CANOPY TREE. A deciduous tree that forms the top layer of vegetation in a
forest. Examples of such trees include oaks, hickories, maples, poplars and
others.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. Document issued by the Board of
Architectural Review, following a prescribed review procedure, certifying that
the proposed actions by an applicant are found to be acceptable in terms of
design criteria relating to the individual property or the historic district.
   CONDOMINIUM. A unit in a multi-unit structure owned by an individual who has
use of all common areas associated with that structure.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The legally elected governing body of the city.
   DAY-CARE SERVICES.
      (1)   CHILD DAY-CARE SERVICE. Any home, center, agency or place, however
styled, where children not related to the operator are received for custodial
care, apart from their parents, whether for compensation, reward or otherwise
during part or all of the day or night and upon any number of successive days
or nights.
      (2)   FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. A home in which care is given by a family
member and no others during the day only for one and not more than 12 children,
including the day-care parents’ own children.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land developed or used for
residential purposes. Unless otherwise clearly stated, DENSITY requirements in
this chapter are expressed in dwelling units per net acre; that is, per acre of
land devoted to residential use and common open space exclusive of land
utilized for streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public uses.
   DWELLING. A building or portion of a building arranged or designed
exclusively for human habitation.
      (1)   APARTMENT DWELLING. See MULTI-UNIT DWELLING.
      (2)   ATTACHED DWELLING. A dwelling unit attached to one or more other
units by common vertical walls.
      (3)   DETACHED DWELLING. A single dwelling unit, other than a mobile
home, surrounded by open space or yards and which is not attached to any other
dwelling by any means.
      (4)   DUPLEX DWELLING. A building containing two dwelling units connected
by a common wall.
      (5)   GROUP OCCUPIED DWELLING. A dwelling unit occupied by four or more
individuals unrelated by blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship living as a
single housekeeping unit. The term also applies to mentally or physically
handicapped persons for which care is provided on a 24-hour basis, in accord
with S.C. Code § 6-7-830.
      (6)   MOBILE HOME DWELLING. A transportable structure of one or more
sections built on a permanent metal chassis and designed to be towed. The term
MOBILE HOME, as used in this chapter, shall not include prefabricated, modular
or unitized dwellings placed on permanent foundations, nor shall it include
travel trailers, motor homes, campers or similar units designed for recreation
or other short term uses.
      (7)   MULTI-UNIT DWELLING. A building containing five or more dwelling
units.
      (8)   PATIO HOUSE DWELLING. A single-family detached or semi-detached
dwelling unit. It is built on a small lot generally enclosed by walls which
provide privacy. The term is synonymous with zero lot lines dwellings.
      (9)   QUADRUPLEX DWELLING. A building containing four dwelling units.
      (10)   SINGLE-FAMILY OCCUPIED DWELLING. A dwelling unit occupied by one
family.
      (11)   TOWNHOUSE DWELLING. A series of attached dwelling units on
separate lots which may or may not have a common floor and are separated from
each other by common vertical walls.
      (12)   TRIPLEX DWELLING. A single unit providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      (13)   ZERO LOT LINE DWELLING. A single-family detached unit which
instead of being centered on a lot, is placed against at least one of the side
lot lines. The term is synonymous with patio house.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or
guardianship, and not more than three persons not so related.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. An intensity measure of land use derived at by dividing
the total floor area of a building by the total site area.
   FRONTAGE LINE. All lot lines that abut a public right-of-way. A corner lot
or a through lot has two frontage lines.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area, designated by the City Council, upon the
recommendation of the Board of Architectural Review and pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY. Any place (including an archaeological site or the
location of a significant historical event), building, structure, work of art,
fixture or similar object that has been individually designated by City Council
or designated as a contributing property within a historic district.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation within a dwelling, including a family day-
care home, and clearly incidental thereto, carried on by a member or members of
the family residing on the premises and no others, provided that:
      (1)   No exterior indication of the use or change in the character or
exterior appearance is evident other than a sign permitted by these
regulations;
      (2)   The maximum floor area used for operations shall not exceed 600
square feet or 25% of the gross floor area;
      (3)   No mechanical equipment is installed or used except such as is
normally used for domestic purposes;
      (4)   No display of products shall be visible from the street and only
articles made on the premises may be sold; and
      (5)   Creates no disturbing or offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odor, heat, glare, traffic hazard, unhealthy or unsightly condition.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO. A measure of the intensity of land use. It is
determined by dividing the total area of all impervious surfaces within the
site by the total site area.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces that do not absorb water. All buildings, paved
parking areas, driveways, roads, sidewalks and any areas in concrete or asphalt
shall be considered impervious surfaces within this definition. In addition,
other areas determined by the Building Official to be impervious within the
meaning of this definition also will be classified as IMPERVIOUS SURFACES.
   LOT. A parcel of land considered as a unit. The terms LOT, “lot of record,”
“property,” “plot,” “parcel” or “tract,” whenever used in this chapter, are
interchangeable.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets.
      (2)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot which has frontage on two parallel
streets, or upon two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the
lot.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on
only one street other than an alley.
   LOT AREA. The area contained within the boundary line of a lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines.
   LOT LINE. A line bounding a lot which divides one lot from another or from a
street or any other public or private space.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front of the
building line.
   MAP or ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the city.
   MAY. The act is permissive.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled-access and
fenced compound that contains individual, compartmentalized and controlled-
access stalls or lockers for the dead storage of customer’s goods or wares.
   MOBILE HOME. See DWELLING, MOBILE HOME DWELLING.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot or parcel with space, improvements and utilities for
the long-term parking or two or more mobile homes which may include services
and facilities for the residents.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot or ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
   MODULAR UNIT or MODULAR STRUCTURE. A building, including the necessary
electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating and other service systems,
manufactured off-site and transported to the point of use for installation or
erection, with or without other specified components, as a finished building
and not designed for ready removal to another site. This term is not to be
limited to residential dwellings. When meeting the requirements of the Modular
Building’s Construction Act, S.C. Code § 23-43-10, the building or structure
may be located in any of the city’s several zoning districts.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any lot of record, use, building, structure or vegetation in
existence prior to the effective date of this chapter, but which fails, by
reason of the adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the present
requirements of the chapter.
   OPEN SPACE RATIO. A measure of the intensity of land use. It is arrived at
by dividing the total amount of open space within the site by the total site
area.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust
company or corporation, as well as an individual.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose for which land is used.
   PRIVATE GARAGE. As defined by the Standard Building Code.
   PUBLIC GARAGE. As defined by the Standard Building Code.
   PUBLIC SPACE WITHIN A BUILDING. Spaces designed for use by the public, such
as auditoriums, court rooms, lobbies, entrance halls, etc. These spaces are
usually gathering places as opposed to corridors for public use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type portable structure without permanent
foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use and
including, but not limited to travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers
and self-propelled motor homes.
   SHALL. The act is always mandatory.
   SIGN. Any object, device display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or
attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event or location by any means, including words, letters,
figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images.
      (1)   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign structure not containing a sign for 120
continuous days or a sign not in use for 120 continuous days, or a sign
advertising a business no longer occupying the site on which the sign exists or
to which it refers.
      (2)   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to
depict action or creates a special effect or scene.
      (3)   AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE SIGN. A sign that is mounted or painted
on or attached to an awning, canopy or marquee.
      (4)   BANNER SIGN. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material
that is permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one
or more edges. National flags, state or municipal flags or the official flag of
any institution or business shall not be considered BANNER SIGNS.
      (5)   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building.
      (6)   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the
face or the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than
eight times per day shall be considered an ANIMATED SIGN and not a CHANGEABLE
COPY SIGN for purposes of this chapter. A sign on which the only copy that
changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature shall
be considered a “time and temperature” portion of a sign and not a CHANGEABLE
COPY SIGN for purposes of this chapter.
      (7)   FLAT SIGN. A single-faced sign attached flush to a building or
projecting no more than 12 inches.
      (8)   FREE-STANDING SIGN. Any non-movable sign not affixed to a building.
      (9)   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a
purpose secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as
“no parking,” “entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone” and other similar
directives. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the
zone lot on which the sign is located shall be considered an INCIDENTAL SIGN.
      (10)   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign attached to a building, structure or the
ground in some manner and made of materials intended for more than short term
use.
      (11)   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign announcing or supporting
political candidates of issues in connection with any national, state or local
election.
      (12)   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign that is not permanently affixed to a
building, structure or the ground.
      (13)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign that is wholly or partly dependent upon a
building for support and which projects more than 12 inches from the building.
      (14)   ROOF SIGN. A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or
which is wholly dependent upon a building for support and which projects above
the point of a building with a flat roof, the eave line of a building with a
gambrel, gable or hip roof or the deck line of a building with a mansard roof.
      (15)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is used only for a short period of
time and is not permanently mounted.
      (16)   WALL SIGN. A sign painted on the wall of a building and has no
sign structure.
      (17)   WINDOW SIGN. A sign that is applied or attached to the exterior or
interior of a window or located in a manner within a building that it can be
seen from the exterior of the structure through a window.
   SIGN FACE. The area or display surface used for the message.
   SUBSTANTIAL HARDSHIP. Hardship, caused by unusual and compelling
circumstances, based on one or more of the following:
      (1)   The property cannot reasonably be maintained in the manner dictated
by the chapter;
      (2)   There are no other reasonable means of saving the property from
deterioration or collapse; or
      (3)   The property is owned by a nonprofit organization and it is not
feasible financially or physically to achieve the charitable purposes of the
organization while maintaining the property appropriately.
   UNDERSTORY TREE. A small deciduous tree that forms the layer of vegetation
under the canopy trees in a forest. Examples of such trees include dogwoods,
sourwoods, fruit trees and others.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or any building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   USED or OCCUPIED. The land or building is in actual use or occupancy and
shall be construed to include the words “intended,” “arranged” or “designed to
be used or occupied.” An intended project shall be defined as one where
substantial monies have been spent towards the goal of the project.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the area regulations of this chapter, granted by
the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals, where the modification will not be
contrary to the public interest, and where owing to conditions peculiar to the
property, a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship, and where the modification will not authorize a principal or
accessory use of the property which is not permitted within the zoning district
in which the property is located.
   YARD. An open space that lies between the principal or accessory building or
buildings and the nearest lot line. The YARD is unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward except as may be specifically provided by this chapter.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending the full width of the front of a lot
between the front (street) right-of-way line or property line and the front
building line.
      (2)   REAR YARD. A yard extending the full width of the lot in the area
between the rear lot line and the rear building line.
      (3)   REQUIRED YARD. That part of a yard between a lot line and the
minimum required building setback line, within which no structure shall be
located except as provided by this chapter.
      (4)   SIDE YARD. A yard extending the full length of the lot in the area
between the side lot line and a side building line.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A specifically delineated area or district in the city
within which regulations and requirements govern the use, placement, spacing
and size of land and buildings.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 00-08-01, passed 8-15-00; Am. Ord. 02-
04-06, passed 4-16-02; Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05; Am. Ord. passed 11-
20-12)
§ 152.003 ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The city is hereby subdivided into the following zoning districts:
      (1)   A-1, single-family residential;
      (2)   A-2, two-family residential;
      (3)   A-3, multi-family residential;
      (4)   A-4, general residential;
      (5)   ROI-1, residential, office and institutional;
      (6)   C-1, central commercial;
      (7)   C-2, highway and neighborhood commercial;
      (8)   U-1, industrial;
      (9)   ME-1, planned development for mobile home parks;
      (10)   W-1, wildlife and marine district; and
      (11)   HCD, historical conservation district.
   (B)   (1)   The boundaries of the above zoning districts are shown an a map
entitled “Official Zoning Map of Bennettsville, South Carolina,” which together
with all explanatory matter thereon is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. The official zoning map shall be identified by
the signature of the Mayor attested by the City Clerk, together with the date
of the adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, FIA flood hazard boundary maps designating flood
hazard areas within the city having an effective date as prepared by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance Administration,
copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, are hereby adopted
by reference and are fully a part of this chapter as if set forth herein.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.004 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow the center lines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall
be construed as following the city limits.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main track.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streams, rivers, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow
the center lines.
      (6)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to all extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   (B)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the Board of Zoning and Housing
Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 152.005 CHANGES TO BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and S.C. Code
Title 6, Chapter 7, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the official zoning map, the changes shall be entered on the
official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City
Council. No amendments to this chapter which involves matter portrayed on the
official zoning map shall become effective until after the change has been made
on the map.
   (B)   No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map
except in conformity with the procedures set forth by this chapter. Any
unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided by law.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.006 CUSTODIAN OF MAP.
   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map
which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map which
shall be located in the office of the City Clerk shall be the final authority
as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other
structures in the city.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.007 CONFLICT AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   Whenever the regulations of this chapter require a greater width of size of
yards, or require a greater percentage of lot be left unoccupied, or impose
other statutes, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the
provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are
required by this chapter, the provisions of the statute shall govern.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.020 A-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide for low density
residential development of relatively spacious character together with public
buildings, schools, churches, public recreational facilities and accessory uses
as may be necessary or are normally compatible with residential surroundings.
The district is located to protect residential surroundings. The district is
located to protect existing development of this character and contains vacant
land considered appropriate for development in the future.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Within the A-1 district, a building or premise shall
be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes;
      (2)   Schools, either public or private, offering general education
courses and public utilities, provided that all buildings shall be located at
least 50 feet from all front, side and rear lot lines;
      (3)   Noncommercial horticulture or agriculture, but not including the
keeping of poultry or livestock;
      (4)   Neighborhood and community parks and centers, golf courses and
similar uses;
      (5)   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, convents and dormitories accessory thereto;
      (6)   Day-care facilities limited to family day-care home, as defined by
this chapter;
      (7)   Customary incidental home occupations;
      (8)   Accessory buildings and uses, including private garages,
noncommercial greenhouses and workshops;
      (9)   Signs, provided they are in accord with all applicable provisions
of §§
152.045 through
152.053;
      (10)   Private or commercial horse stables, provided the uses shall meet
all requirements of §
152.101.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures, and the area upon which they may be placed are as
follows:
      (1)   Lot area requirements; permitted uses.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings shall have a minimum of 12,000 square
feet.
         (b)   Other permitted uses shall have no minimum.
      (2)   Yard requirements. Unless otherwise specified by this section, the
following yard requirements are applicable to all permitted uses:
         (a)   The minimum depth of a front yard shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   The minimum depth of a rear yard shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   There shall be two side yards, one with a minimum width of five
feet and one with a minimum width of ten feet, however, the sum of the widths
of both side yards shall be not less than 18 feet.
      (3)   Height requirements.
         (a)   The maximum height of all permitted uses shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   Churches, steeples and spires shall have a maximum height of 75
feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. See §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.021 A-2, SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide for the moderate
density residential development to include single- and two-family dwellings,
together with public buildings, schools, churches, public recreational
facilities and accessory uses as may be necessary or are normally compatible
with residential surroundings. The district is located to protect existing
development of this character and contains vacant land considered appropriate
for the development in the future.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Within the A-2 district, a building or premise shall
be used only for the following purpose:
      (1)   Any use, together with the conditions attached thereto, permitted
in the A-1 district; and
      (2)   Two-family dwellings, including accessory apartments, in accord
with the provisions of §
152.089(B).
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures and the area upon which they may be placed are as follows:
      (1)   Lot area requirements; permitted uses.
         (a)   A single-family dwelling shall have a minimum of 7,500 square
feet.
         (b)   A two-family dwelling shall have a minimum of 10,500 square
feet.
         (c)   Other permitted uses shall have no minimum.
      (2)   Yard requirements. Unless otherwise specified by §
152.020 for certain uses, the following yard requirements are applicable:
         (a)   The minimum depth of a front yard for single-family or two-
family dwellings shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   The minimum depth of a rear yard for a single-family dwelling
shall be 15 feet. The minimum for a two-family dwelling shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   The minimum width of side yards for a single-family dwelling
shall be five feet each. The minimum for a two-family dwelling shall be 7.5
feet each.
      (3)   Height requirements.
         (a)   The maximum height of all permitted uses shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   The maximum height for churches, steeples and spires shall be 75
feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. See §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.022 A-3, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to maintain and promote
medium to high density residential development as might be appropriate for
garden apartments and condominiums, and at the same time to permit a variety of
housing types. Population density and height of buildings are low enough to be
generally compatible with single-family residential development in the same
general neighborhood.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Within the A-3 district, a building or premise shall
be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use, together with the conditions attached thereto, permitted
in the A-1 district;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings, including accessory apartments, in accord
with the provisions of §
152.089(B);
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings, including condominiums, apartments and
related long term occupancy units;
      (4)   Rooming and boarding houses;
      (5)   Child day-care services;
      (6)   Hospitals, clinics and related uses, provided a 15-foot evergreen
buffer is established whenever these uses abut residential uses and no building
shall be established closer than 50 feet to the nearest property line. (The
buffer may be counted as part of the required setback.);
      (7)   Townhouses, in accord with the provisions of §
152.099;
      (8)   Patio and zero lot line houses, in accord with the provisions of §
152.100;
      (9)   Group-occupied dwellings, provided the dwelling arrangements are
reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission, following an advertised
public notice and hearing on the occupancy request.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures, and the area upon which they may be placed are as
follows:
      (1)   Lot area requirements.
         (a)   Single-family dwellings shall have a minimum of 5,000 square
feet.
         (b)   Two-family dwellings shall have a minimum of 7,500 square feet.
         (c)   Three- or more family dwellings shall have a minimum of 7,500
square feet, plus 3,000 square feet for each unit over two.
         (d)   Other permitted uses shall have no minimum.
      (2)   Yard requirements. Unless otherwise specified for certain permitted
uses, the following yard requirements are applicable:
         (a)   Front yards.
            1.   The minimum depth for a single-family dwelling shall be 35
feet.
            2.   The minimum depth for a two-family dwelling shall be 35 feet.
            3.   The minimum depth for a three- or more family dwelling shall
be 35 feet.
            4.   The minimum depth for other permitted uses shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   Rear yards.
            1.   The minimum depth for single-family dwellings shall be 15
feet.
            2.   The minimum depth for two-family dwellings shall be 25 feet.
            3.   The minimum depth for three- or more family dwellings shall be
25 feet.
            4.   The minimum depth for other permitted uses shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   Side yards.
            1.   The minimum depth for single-family dwellings shall be five
feet.
            2.   The minimum depth for two-family dwellings shall be 7.5 feet.
            3.   The minimum depth for three- or more family dwellings shall be
as follows. No building shall be erected closer than 7.5 feet from any side lot
line. Where a building exceeds 80 feet horizontally and/or 35 feet vertically,
whichever is greater, the side yard shall increase by the ratio of one foot for
each additional seven feet in width and by the ratio of one foot for each
additional three feet in height. On lots with two or more principal residential
dwellings or uses, the minimum distance between the uses shall be not less than
15 feet.
            4.   The minimum depth for other permitted uses shall be 15 feet
each.
      (3)   Height requirements. The maximum height of structures shall be 75
feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. See §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 00-08-01, passed 8-15-00; Am. Ord. 15-
10-001, passed 10-20-15)
§ 152.023 A-4, GENERAL RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to maintain and promote
medium to high density residential development as might be appropriate for
garden apartments and condominiums, and to permit a variety of housing types.
Population density and height of buildings are intended generally to be
compatible with single-family residential development in the same general
neighborhood.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Within the A-4 district, a building or premise shall
be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use, together with the conditions attached thereto, permitted
in the A-3 district;
      (2)   Commercial establishments shall be home owned and operated
businesses providing certain convenience items and services to the public
limited to beauty shops, seamstress/tailor shops, barber shops and flower
shops. The establishments shall not exceed 300 square feet of gross floor space
if they are located as attached structures to the operator’s permanent
residence. Design and construction shall be consistent with the existing
residential structure. Any detached structure used for commercial purposes
stated herein shall also comply in design and construction with the owner’s
permanent on-site residence and shall not exceed 400 square feet in gross floor
space and shall observe all minimum lot and yard distances as follows:
         (a)   Attached commercial establishments shall comply with lot and
yard distances for single-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Detached commercial establishments shall comply with lot and
yard distances for two-family dwellings.
      (3)   Signs, in accordance with §§
152.045 through
152.053.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures and the area upon which they may be placed are as follows:
      (1)   Lot area requirements; permitted uses.
         (a)   The minimum lot area for single-family dwellings shall be 5,000
square feet.
         (b)   The minimum lot area for two-family dwellings shall be 7,500
square feet.
         (c)   The minimum lot area for three- or more family dwellings shall
be 7,500 square feet, plus 3,000 square feet for each unit over two.
      (2)   Yard requirements. Unless otherwise specified for certain permitted
uses, the following yard requirements are applicable:
         (a)   Front yard.
            1.   The minimum depth for single-family dwellings shall be 35
feet.
            2.   The minimum depth for two-family dwellings shall be 35 feet.
            3.   The minimum depth for three- or more family dwellings shall be
35 feet.
            4.   The minimum depth for other permitted uses shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   Rear yard.
            1.   The minimum depth for single-family dwellings shall be 15
feet.
            2.   The minimum depth for two-family dwellings shall be 25 feet.
            3.   The minimum depth for three- or more family dwellings shall be
25 feet.
            4.   The minimum depth for other permitted uses shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   Side yards.
            1.   The minimum depth for single-family dwellings shall be five
feet.
            2.   The minimum depth for two-family dwellings shall be 7.5 feet.
            3.   The minimum depth for three- or more family dwellings shall be
as follows. No building shall be erected closer than 7.5 feet from any side lot
line. Where a building exceeds 80 feet horizontally and/or 35 feet vertically,
whichever is greater, the side yard shall increase by the ratio of
one foot for each additional seven feet in width and by the ratio of one floor
for each additional three feet in height. On lots with two or more principal
residential dwellings or uses, the minimum distance between the uses shall be
not less than 15 feet.
            4.   The minimum depth for other permitted uses shall be 15 feet.
      (3)   Height requirements. The maximum height of structures shall be 75
feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. See §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.024 ROI-1, RESIDENTIAL, OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to accommodate office,
institutional and residential uses in areas whose character is neither
exclusively business nor residential in nature. It is designed principally for
areas in transition, along major streets and for ameliorating change impacting
established residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Within the ROI-1 district, a building or premise shall
be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use, together with the conditions attached thereto, permitted
in the A-3 district;
      (2)   Public utility stations and facilities;
      (3)   Financial, insurance and real estate uses;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast inns, in accord with the provisions of §
152.098;
      (5)   Funeral homes;
      (6)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (7)   Health care services and facilities, including:
         (a)   Offices and clinics;
         (b)   Nursing and personal care; and
         (c)   Allied services.
      (8)   Legal services;
      (9)   Educational services and facilities, including:
         (a)   Libraries;
         (b)   Public and private schools; and
         (c)   Vocational schools.
      (10)   Social services and facilities;
      (11)   Child day-care services;
      (12)   Museums and art galleries;
      (13)   Religious services and facilities;
      (14)   Public administrative services and facilities, but not including
correctional facilities;
      (15)   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted
uses; and
      (16)   Signs, in accordance with all applicable provisions of §§
152.045 through
152.053.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures, and the area an which they may be placed are as follows:
      (1)   Lot area requirements; permitted uses.
         (a)   The minimum for single-family dwellings shall be 7,500 square
feet.
         (b)   The minimum for two-family dwellings shall be 10,000 square
feet.
         (c)   The minimum for three- or more dwellings shall be 5,000 square
feet for each unit over two.
         (d)   The minimum for other permitted uses shall be 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Yard requirements.
         (a)   The minimum depth of a front yard shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   The minimum depth of a rear yard shall be 15 feet.
         (c)   The minimum width of a side yard shall be five feet each.
      (3)   Height regulations.
         (a)   The maximum height of structures shall be 45 feet.
         (b)   The maximum for church steeples and spires shall be 75 feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. See §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.025 C-1, CENTRAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide for the intensive
business and commercial development of the Bennettsville central business
district. Off-street parking is permitted separately and is not required as a
use because of small lot sizes and intensity of development. This district is
designed to provide comparative shopping opportunities within a concentrated
area, and promote a business climate essential to the vitality and economic
stability of the community.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Within the C-1 district, a building or premise shall be used only
for the following purposes.
      (2)   All uses, including signs in accord with §§
152.045 through
152.053, are permitted except the following which are specifically prohibited:
         (a)   Building supplies and/or lumber yards;
         (b)   Cabinet shops;
         (c)   Cemeteries;
         (d)   Coal yards and wood yards;
         (e)   Cotton gins;
         (f)   Garage apartments and/or rear yard dwellings;
         (g)   Junk yards and/or used auto parts;
         (h)   Laundries and/or dry cleaning establishments;
         (i)   Machine shops;
         (j)   Manufacturing plants, where articles produced are sold at
wholesale, either direct or through distributors, and where the total number of
employees or operatives is five persons or less. In no case shall any of the
following industrial processes or storage of the products thereof be permitted
in the central business district:
            1.   Acid manufacture;
            2.   Cement, lime gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
            3.   Distillation of bones;
            4.   Explosives manufacture;
            5.   Fertilizer manufacture;
            6.   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping;
            7.   Glue manufacture;
            8.   Petroleum, refining or bulk storage;
            9.   Poultry hatching, raising or processing;
            10.   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores; and
            11.   Stock yards or slaughter of animals.
         (k)   Mobile homes parks or courts;
         (1)   Recycling facilities, but not enclosed or screened pick-up
stations;
         (m)   Mini-warehouses;
         (n)   Self service carwashes;
         (o)   Adult uses;
         (p)   Veterinary and animal boarding services; and
         (q)   Substance abuse clinics (aka drug clinics) offering counseling,
drug dispensing, or other services.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures, and the area on which they may be placed are as follow:
      (1)   Lot area requirements. There shall be no minimum lot size.
      (2)   Yard requirements.
         (a)   No front yard minimum depth shall be required. No building,
however, shall be erected or structurally altered so as to be within 40 feet of
the centerline of the abutting street.
         (b)   No side yard minimum depth shall be required. No building,
however, shall be erected or structurally altered as to be within 40 feet of
the center line of the abutting street.
         (c)   No rear yard minimum depth shall be required. On through lots,
however, the yard abutting the rear street shall be considered a front yard and
the front yard requirements for the district in which the yard is located shall
be met. For lots which abut on an alley at the rear of the lot, no building or
structure shall be erected within 15 feet of the centerline of the alley.
      (3)   Height requirements. The maximum height of all buildings and
structures shall be 75 feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. There are none.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-02-01, passed 2-21-17)
§ 152.026 C-2, HIGHWAY AND NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to service the automobile and
its passengers and to provide for commercial activities in harmony with highway
development. This district also is intended to provide convenience services and
goods to relatively small residential areas, and to accommodate commercial
development outside of the central commercial district. For these reasons, open
space, off-street parking and building setbacks are prerequisite to new
construction in this district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Within the C-2 district, a building or premise shall
be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use, together with the conditions attached thereto, permitted
in the A-3 district;
      (2)   Any retail, wholesale or storage business involving the sale of
merchandise, except the following, which are expressly prohibited:
         (a)   Junk and salvage yards; or
         (b)   Adult arcades, theaters, food and video stores within 500 feet
of a residential, religious, recreational or educational facility.
      (3)   Business involving the rendering or personal and general services,
including but not limited to barber and beauty shops, dressmaker, jewelry and
watch repair, photographers, studios, funeral homes, laundry and dry cleaning,
plumbing and upholstery;
      (4)   Private or semi-private club, lodge, union hall or social center;
      (5)   Off-street commercial parking lot or garage;
      (6)   Hotels, tourist homes and motels;
      (7)   Frozen food lockers;
      (8)   Commercial recreation facilities, including, but not limited to
billiard parlors, theaters, including drive-ins, bowling alleys and golf
courses, including driving range, miniature or Par Three operation;
      (9)   Newspaper plants and printing shops;
      (10)   Child day-care services;
      (11)   Eating and/or drinking establishments including drive-ins;
      (12)   Public utilities, parks and facilities;
      (13)   Horticultural operations, including greenhouses and commercial
nurseries, but not the keeping of poultry or livestock;
      (14)   Social, cultural, philanthropic, educational, financial, medical,
business and governmental institutions and offices;
      (15)   Radio and television stations;
      (16)   Bus and transportation terminals;
      (17)   Veterinarians, animal hospitals or kennels;
      (18)   Bottling works and beverage distribution;
      (19)   Fabricating and assembling establishments provided the entire
operation is enclosed within a building;
      (20)   Mechanical and repair services;
      (21)   Tire recapping services;
      (22)   Cemeteries;
      (23)   Recycling facilities;
      (24)   Accessary uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted;
      (25)   Signs, in accordance with all applicable provisions of §§
152.045 through
152.053.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures, and the area on which they may bet placed are as follows:
      (1)   Lot area requirements.
         (a)   The minimum for single-family dwellings shall be 5,000 square
feet.
         (b)   The minimum for two-family dwellings shall be 7,500 square feet.
         (c)   The minimum for three- or more dwellings shall be 7,500 square
feet, plus 3,000 square feet for each unit over two.
         (d)   There shall be no minimum for other permitted uses.
      (2)   Yards.
         (a)   The minimum depth of a front yard shall be 40 feet.
         (b)   The minimum depth of a rear yard shall be ten feet.
         (c)   The minimum width of side yards shall be 7.5 feet total. It may
be observed, however, on either side or divided.
      (3)   Height requirements.
         (a)   The maximum height of structures shall be 45 feet.
         (b)   The maximum height of church steeples and spires shall be 75
feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. See §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.027 U-1, INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to provide primarily for
light manufacturing, fabricating, warehousing and wholesale distributing in
areas with off-street loading and off-street parking for employees and with
access by major streets or railroads. Commercial uses are not limited, but
residential development is excluded.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Within the U-1 district, a building or premise shall
be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Cemeteries;
      (2)   Building supply and lumber yards;
      (3)   Cabinet shops;
      (4)   Cold storage and freezer lockers;
      (5)   Coal yards and wood yards;
      (6)   Cotton gins;
      (7)   Laundries and/or dry cleaning establishments;
      (8)   Storage yards, including automobile junk yards, provided:
         (a)   No material, because it is discarded and incapable of being
reused in some form, shall be placed in storage or junk yard.
         (b)   No material shall be placed in any junk yard in a manner that it
is capable of being transferred out of the junk yard by wind, water or other
causes.
         (c)   All paper, rags, cloth, other fibers and activities involving
the same other than loading and unloading, shall be within a fully enclosed
building.
         (d)   In order to lessen the adverse effect on adjoining property,
reduce wind-blown trash and create a more healthful environment, all junkyard
materials and activities not within fully enclosed buildings shall not be
located nearer than 60 feet to any street line and shall be surrounded by a
greenbelt planting strip composed of a row of white pine trees spaced not
further than ten feet apart. This greenbelt planting strip may be modified by
the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals in situations where abundant natural
buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain or where suitable
planting is proposed. The Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals may also approve
an alternate method of buffering when planting is not practical.
      (9)   Industrial and processing plants provided that the uses shall not
be injurious or obnoxious to surrounding development;
      (10)   Customary accessory uses;
      (11)   Signs, provided they are in accordance with the provisions set
forth in §§
152.045 through
152.053.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Regulations governing the location and
height of structures, and the area on which they may be placed are as follows:
      (1)   Lot area requirements. No minimum lot area is required.
      (2)   Yard requirements.
         (a)   There shall be a front yard having a minimum depth of 50 feet.
No building, however, shall be erected or structurally altered within 75 feet
of the centerline or centerline of any abutting street or streets.
         (b)   No side yard shall be required except that for a corner lot, the
side yard abutting the side street shall have a minimum depth of 50 feet. No
building, however, shall be erected or structurally altered within 75 feet of
the centerline of the abutting side street.
         (c)   No rear yard shall be required except in the case of a rear yard
abutting on a street, then the rear yard shall be considered another front yard
and minimum front yard requirements for this district shall be effective.
      (3)   Height requirements. The maximum height of all buildings and
structures shall be 150 feet.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements. See §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 152.028 HPD, HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Purpose.  
      (1)   The purpose of this section is:
         (a)   To protect, preserve and enhance the distinctive architectural
and cultural heritage of the City of Bennettsville;
         (b)   To promote the educational, cultural, economic and general
welfare of the people of the City of Bennettsville;
         (c)   To foster civic pride;
         (d)   To encourage harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and
development of the City of Bennettsville;
         (e)   To strengthen the local economy; and
         (f)   To improve property values.
      (2)   It is the city’s hope that by encouraging a general harmony of
style, form, proportion and material between buildings of historic design and
those of contemporary design, the city’s historic buildings and historic
districts will continue to be a distinctive aspect of the city and will serve
as visible reminders of the significant historical and cultural heritage of the
City of Bennettsville and State of South Carolina.
      (3)   This section is part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of
Bennettsville and is enacted pursuant to the S.C. Code §§ 6-29-710 and 6-29-870
et seq.
   (B)   Architectural Review Board established.
      (1)   Creation. To implement the provisions of this chapter, there is
hereby established a Board of Architectural Review, hereinafter referred to as
the Board, for the City of Bennettsville, consisting of seven members. Members
shall be appointed by the City Council upon the recommendation of the Board.
      (2)   Composition and qualifications. 
         (a)   All members of the Board shall have a demonstrated interest in
historic preservation. If available in the community, the Board should have at
least one member who is qualified as:
            1.   A historian, knowledgeable in local history;
            2.   An architect or, if an architect is not available to serve,
someone knowledgeable in building design and construction.
Other suggested members include a lawyer, a real estate agent, an engineer, and
a representative of the historical society.
         (b)   No members shall hold any other municipal office. (S.C. Code §
6-29-870(C).)
         (c)   A representative of the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals may
serve only as an ex-officio, non-voting member.
         (d)   Members shall assume their duties at the first regular meeting
after their appointment. Members shall serve without compensation except for
reimbursement for authorized expenses attendant to the performance of their
duties.
      (3)   Terms of office.
         (a)   The term of office for each member shall be two years.
         (b)   Membership shall be identified by place numbers 1 through 7.
Terms of office for members in the odd-numbered places shall expire in odd
numbered years; terms for even-numbered members expire in even numbered years,
provided, however, that each member shall serve until his successor is
appointed and installed.
      (4)   Removal. Any member of the Board may be removed by the Mayor of the
City of Bennettsville upon confirmation of the City Council, for repeated
failure to attend meetings of the Board or for any other cause deemed
sufficient by the Mayor.
      (5)   Appointment to fill a vacancy. If any place on the Board becomes
vacant due to resignation, removal, or for any reason, the Mayor shall appoint
a replacement within 60 days for the remainder of the unexpired term, subject
to confirmation by the City Council.
      (6)   Conflicts of interest. Any member of the board who has a personal
or financial interest, either directly or indirectly, in any property which is
the subject of, or affected by, a decision of the Board shall be disqualified
from participating in the decision of the Board concerning the property.
      (7)   Liability of members. Any member of the Board acting within powers
granted by this section shall be relieved from personal liability for any
damage and held harmless by the City of Bennettsville. Any suit brought against
any member of the Board shall be defended by a legal representative furnished
by the city until the termination of the proceedings.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The responsibility of the Board is to promote the
purposes and objectives of this section, to review and recommend to City
Council the designation of individual historic properties and historic
districts, and to review plans and applications, as hereinafter provided, for
all construction within historic districts and construction or demolition
pertaining to or affecting duly designated historic properties. The Board shall
have the power to approve, approve with modifications or deny approval for such
applications in accordance with the prescribed procedures and guidelines.
   (D)   Historic property inventory. The Board shall maintain a local
inventory of buildings, structures, objects, and sites more than 50 years old.
These records shall be available to the public.
   (E)   Designation of historic properties.
      (1)   Criteria for historic designation. The Board shall review the local
inventory and make recommendations for historic designation(s) to City Council
based on the following criteria. A property may be designated historic if it:
         (a)   Has significant inherent character, interest, or value as part
of the development or
heritage of the community, state, or nation; or
         (b)   Is the site of an event significant in history; or
         (c)   Is associated with a person or persons who contributed
significantly to the culture and development of the community, state, or
nation; or
         (d)   Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic, social, ethnic,
or historic heritage of the community, state, or nation; or
         (e)   Individually, or as a collection of resources, embodies
distinguishing characteristics of a type, style, period, or specimen in
architecture or engineering; or
         (f)   Is the work of a designer whose work has influenced
significantly the development of
the community, state or nation; or
         (g)   Contains elements of design, detail, materials, or craftsmanship
which represent a
significant innovation; or
         (h)   Is part of or related to a square or other distinctive element
of community planning; or
         (i)   Represents an established and familiar visual feature of the
neighborhood or community; or
         (j)   Has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
pre-history or history.
      (2)   Owner notification.  
         (a)   Owners of properties proposed to be designated historic shall be
notified in writing 30 days prior to consideration by City Council. Owners may
appear before the City Council to voice approval or opposition to such
designation.
         (b)   The City of Bennettsville Planning Commission shall provide its
formal comment to the Council on ordinance adoption, amendment, and designation
and may also serve as the entity conducting the required public hearing if so
authorized by council.
      (3)   Identification on town zoning map. All locally designated historic
properties and historic districts shall be clearly shown on the zoning map.
      (4)   Opposition to designation.  
         (a)   Any property owner may object to the decision by the City
Council to designate his property as historic by filing suit against the city
before the Courts of the State of South Carolina.
         (b)   This suit must be based on procedural nonconformities in the
designation process or on the misapplication of the criteria for designation as
specified in the city’s ordinance or under S.C. Code § 6-29-870.0, not simply
on the desire not to be included in the locally designated district. In the
case of individual landmarks, the basis for challenging designation is the
same.
   (F)   Jurisdiction of the Board of Architectural Review. The jurisdiction of
the Board, in general, is the Bennettsville city limits. The jurisdiction of
the Board for the recommendation of properties to be designated historic is the
city limits. The jurisdiction of the Board for the review of proposed
alteration to exteriors of buildings, new construction, and demolition is the
individual properties and areas that have been designated by the City Council
as historic.
   (G)   Nominations to the National Register of Historic Places. The Board may
conduct first review and evaluation of all proposed nominations for the
National Register of Historic Places for properties that are within its
jurisdiction, prior to consideration by the State Board of Review. The Board
may send their recommendations to the State Historic Preservation Office for
consideration at the meeting of the State Board of Review. The Board shall not
nominate properties directly to the National Register; only the State Board of
Review shall have this final review authority unless expressly authorized by
federal statute.
   (H)   Certificate of Appropriateness.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   A Certificate of Appropriateness is required before a building
permit can be issued for the demolition, new construction, exterior alteration,
modification or addition to a designated historic property. Any building permit
not issued in conformity with this section shall be considered void.
         (b)   Application for a Certificate of Appropriateness must be signed
by the owner or his authorized representative and the form must be signed by
the chairman or vice-chairman of the Board stating its approval, denial, or
approval with conditions and the reasons for the decision.
      (2)   Required procedure. An application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be obtained from the City Planning Department and, when
completed, filed with the appropriate administrative official as designated by
the Board.
      (3)   Time limits. Applications for a Certificate of Appropriateness
shall be considered by the Board at its next regular meeting, provided they
have been filed at least seven calendar days before the regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board. If the Board fails to take action upon any application
within 45 days after the complete application is received, the application
shall be considered approved, except in cases where the Board has postponed an
application to demolish a structure under the provisions contained in this
section.
      (4)   Board action on application. The Board shall review the
application, using the design guidelines appearing in division (I) to make
findings of fact to decide whether or not the applicant’s plans are
appropriate. The decision of the Board, along with the reasons for each
decision, will be recorded in the minutes and will be available upon request as
a public reference for preservation procedures.
      (5)   Contents of application. The Board shall, in its Rules of
Procedure, require data as are reasonable and necessary to determine the nature
of the application. An application shall not be considered complete until all
the required data have been submitted.
      (6)   Notification of affected property owners. Prior to the issuance of
an approval or denial of a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Board shall
inform the owners of any property likely to be materially affected by the
application, and shall give the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be
heard.
      (7)   Submission of a new application. If the Board determines that a
Certificate of Appropriateness should be denied, a new application affecting
the same property may be submitted only if substantial change is made in the
plans for the proposed work.
      (8)   Maintenance, repair, and interior projects. Nothing in this
document shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of
any exterior architectural feature of structures designated as historic when
that repair does not involve a change in design, material, color, or outer
appearance of the structure. The Board shall not consider the interior
arrangements or alterations to the interior of a building unless the interior
of a public building or the public space of a private building is specifically
described and designated as historic. The Board may authorize a staff member to
approve minor projects involving repairs and ordinary maintenance that do not
alter design, materials, color or the outer appearance of a structure or
interior projects not subject to design review.
      (9)   Fines and penalties. The system of fines applied by the city for
violation of the Building Code will apply to violations of this section.
      (10)   Substantial hardship.  
         (a)   In the event a Certificate of Appropriateness is denied, the
property owner may apply for an exemption based on the substantial hardship of
maintaining the property according to the design guidelines for historic
properties. Substantial hardship is to be considered by the Commission where
one or more of the following unusual and compelling circumstances exists:
            1.   The property cannot reasonably be maintained in the manner
dictated by this section;
            2.   There are no other reasonable means of saving the property
from deterioration or collapse; or
            3.   The property is owned by a nonprofit organization and it is
not feasible financially or physically to achieve the charitable purposes of
the organization while maintaining the property appropriately.
         (b)   The owner may be required to submit documents to show that he
cannot comply with the design guidelines and earn a reasonable rate of return
on his investment in the property. Information required may include:
            1.   Costs of the proposed development with and without
modification needed to comply with the design guidelines as determined by the
Board;
            2.   Structural report and/or a feasibility report;
            3.   Market value of the property in its present condition and
after completion of the proposed project;
            4.   Cost of the property, date purchased, relationship, if any,
between seller and buyer, terms of financing;
            5.   For the past two years, annual gross income from the property
with operating and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and annual cash flow
before and after debt service during that time; and
            6.   Other information considered necessary by the Board to
determine whether or not the property may yield a reasonable return.
      (11)   Demolition. If the Board denies, or postpones for 180 days, a
request to demolish a historic building, the Board shall work closely with the
owner to find an appropriate use for the property, to help find a buyer or to
obtain funding for rehabilitation, including low interest loans or grants. The
Board
shall inform the community concerning the threat to the building, its value as
part of the fabric of the community and, through publicity and contacts with
civic groups, seek to provide assistance in preserving the property.
   (I)   Design guidelines.
      (1)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to ensure, insofar as
possible, that properties designated as historic shall be in harmony with the
architectural and historical character of the City of Bennettsville. In
granting a Certificate of Appropriateness, the Board shall take into account
the architectural and historical significance of the structure under
consideration and the exterior form and appearance of any proposed additions or
modifications to that structure, as well as the effect of such change or
additions upon other structures in the vicinity.
      (2)   The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation.  
         (a)   When considering an application for a Certificate of
Appropriateness for new construction, alteration, repair, or restoration, the
Commission shall use the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation as guidelines in making its decisions. In addition, the Board
may adopt more specific guidelines for local historic districts and local
historic buildings. These guidelines serve as the basis for determining the
approval, approval with modifications, or denial of an application.
         (b)   The Secretary’s Standards for Rehabilitation are:
            1.   A property will be used as it was historically or be given a
new use that requires minimal change to its distinctive materials, features,
spaces, and spatial relationships.
            2.   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of distinctive materials or alteration of features,
spaces, and spatial relationships that characterize a property will be avoided.
            3.   Each property will be recognized as a physical record of its
time, place, and use.
Changes that create a false sense of historical development, such as adding
conjectural features or elements from other buildings, will not be undertaken.
            4.   Changes to a property that have acquired acquired historic
significance in their own right will be retained and preserved.
            5.   Distinctive materials, features, finishes, and construction
techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property will be
preserved.
            6.   Deteriorated historic features will be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature will match the old in design, color,
texture, and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features will
be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence.
            7.   Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, will be
undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to
historic materials will not be used.
            8.   Archeological resources will be protected and preserved in
place. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures will be
undertaken.
            9.   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new
construction will not destroy historic materials, features, and spatial
relationships that characterize the property. The new work will be
differentiated from the old and will be compatible with the historic materials,
features, size, scale, and proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of
the property and its environment.
            10.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction will
be undertaken in such a manner that, if removed in the future, the essential
form and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be
unimpaired.
   (J)   Appeals. Any person may appeal a decision of the Board to the Courts
of South Carolina pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 6-29-900 et seq.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 00-08-01, passed 8-15-00; Am. Ord. 05-
02-03, passed 2-15-05; Am. Ord. passed 8-18-15)
§ 152.029 MH-1, PLANNED DEVELOPMENT FOR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   The purpose of this district is to provide for the orderly and planned
development of mobile home parks and courts in order to enhance the health and
safety of our citizens. Mobile home parks or courts shall contain an area not
less than 2½ acres and shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The maximum number of mobile homes per acre shall not exceed eight.
      (2)   Sanitary sewage, storm drainage, water and refuse disposal
facilities are available.
      (3)   Parking spaces are paved, properly marked and lighted.
      (4)   Concrete curbs or other appropriate car stops are installed at the
end of all “head-in” parking bays which are not “drive-through” type.
      (5)   Roadways are not to be dedicated as public streets, have a minimum
travel width of 20 feet exclusive of parking.
      (6)   All roadways are paved with cement or asphalt.
      (7)   No access roadway to a mobile home park is located closer than 150
feet to any public street intersection.
      (8)   The number of entrances and/or exits do not exceed the ratio of one
per 150 feet of parking frontage. Parks with less than 150 feet frontage are
only allowed one combination ingress and egress road.
      (9)   A 15-foot landscaped buffer strip (screening) is provided along the
side and rear lot lines. The screening may be evergreen trees or shrubs. In
lieu of the planting strip, a masonry wall or fence at lease five feet high and
designed to provide equivalent screening may be provided.
      (10)   A minimum of 10% of the land area is set aside and developed for
recreational purposes.
      (11)   No recreational area shall be less than 300 square feet in area.
No area shall be located over a drainage field or septic tank.
      (12)   A request or application for a mobile home park is accompanied by
a “plot plan” illustrating the above requirements and showing the placement of
all mobile homes, structures, facilities, landscaping, off-street parking and
drives. This plan shall become a part of the application, and if approved, any
violation thereof shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   It is the intention by the creation of this district to provide for
the use of mobile homes subject to the conditions and requirements set forth
and prohibit the use of mobile homes in all areas of the city except this
district.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.030 W-1, WILDLIFE AND MARINE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to primarily provide for
public recreation and the development and management of wildlife and marine
resources.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The property located within this district is owned by
the South Carolina Department of Wildlife and Marine Resources and so long as
the property is so owned the permitted uses shall be, not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, any use thereof which is determined by the
Department to be proper for the property.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.031 DBOZD, DOWNTOWN BENNETTSVILLE OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purposes of this District are to:
         (a)   Encourage and direct development within the boundaries of the
Downtown Bennettsville Overlay Zoning District and implement the Downtown
Bennettsville Masterplan.
         (b)   Encourage a form of development that will achieve the physical
qualities necessary to maintain and enhance the economic vitality of Downtown
Bennettsville and maintain the desired character of the City of Bennettsville
as stated in the Downtown Bennettsville Masterplan.
         (c)   Encourage the rehabilitation of existing buildings; ensure new
buildings are compatible with their context and the desired character of the
city; ensure that all uses relate to the pedestrian; ensure that retail be
safeguarded along specific street frontages; ensure that rehabilitation be
equitable for all scales of ownership; and assure that the permitting process
be simplified and facilitated.
         (d)   Promote the rehabilitation of historic buildings and ensure that
new buildings are compatible with and enhance the historic districts that
reflect the city’s cultural, social, economic, political, and architectural
heritage.
      (2)   For applicants that elect to develop under the standards of the
Downtown Bennettsville Overlay Zoning District, the design of buildings and
sites shall be regulated under the provisions of §
152.028, HPD, Historic Preservation District.
   (B)   Definitions.
Note - Terms used throughout this section shall take their commonly accepted
meaning unless herein defined or defined in § 152.002, Definitions. When there
are conflicts between the definitions herein and definitions as provided in §
152.002, Definitions, the definitions of this division shall take precedence.
      ARTISAN USE. Premises used principally for the repair, manufacture and
sale of domestic furniture, arts, and crafts. The work must take place entirely
within an enclosed structure using only hand-held and/or table-mounted manual
and electrical tools.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the grade at the sidewalk at
the frontage line to the highest point of the roof surface in a flat roof, to
the deck line for mansard roofs, and to the eaves for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs. Height limits do not apply to parapet walls, belfries, steeples,
flagpoles, skylights, chimneys, or roof structures for the housing of
elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, or similar equipment required to
operate and maintain the building.
      COMMERCIAL USE.  Premises used generally in connection with the purchase,
sale, barter, display, or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise, or personal
services.
      COMMUNITY BUILDING. A building used principally for education, worship,
cultural performances, and gatherings administered by non-profit, cultural,
educational, and religious organizations. Also, buildings used principally for
local, state, and federal government, administration, provision of public
services, education, cultural performances, and gatherings.
      FACADE.  The vertical exterior surface of a building that is set parallel
to a frontage line.
      FRONTAGE LINE.  All lot lines that abut a public street. A corner lot or
a through lot has two frontage lines.
      OFFICE.  A building or portion of a building wherein services are
performed, including professional, financial, banks, clerical, sales,
administrative, or medical services.
      REHABILITATION. The act or process of making possible an efficient
compatible use for a property through repair, alterations, and additions while
preserving those portions or features which convey its historical, cultural, or
architectural values.
      RETAIL FRONTAGE LINE.  All lot lines abutting a public street which are
required to be retail, as designated on the Regulating Plan.
      RETAIL USE. Any of the following uses: artisan, civic, commercial,
cultural, entertainment, or restaurant uses.
      SCREENWALL. An opaque freestanding wall aligned with the facade of an
adjacent building with the purpose of masking off-street parking from view from
the street. Screenwalls shall be between two and one-half and three and one-
half feet in height and made of brick, stone, or other masonry material
matching the building.
      STOREFRONT. The portion of the building at the first story of a retail
frontage line.
      TERMINATED VISTAS. A building or a portion thereof which terminates a
view as designated on the Regulating Plan, with architectural features of
enhanced character and visibility.
      TRANSITION LINE. A horizontal line the full width of a facade expressed
by (a) a material change, by (b) a trim line, or by (c) a continuous balcony a
maximum of two and one-half feet deep.
   (C)   Permit approval process. All construction activity within the Downtown
Bennettsville Overlay Zoning District (DBOZD), including the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, demolition, and rehabilitation of new and existing
buildings and appurtenances, shall be required to follow the design
standards contained in the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Bennettsville, as
amended, to include the special provisions of the Historic Preservation
Ordinance, §
152.028.
   (D)   General standards.
      (1)   This division shall govern the design of all publicly and privately
owned land within the Downtown Bennettsville Overlay Zoning District where the
applicant elects to apply under the standards of this overlay zone.
      (2)   Where an applicant elects to comply with the standards of this
overlay zone, the provisions of this overlay zone, when in conflict with other
sections of the Zoning Ordinance, shall take precedence, except where specified
otherwise herein. Where application is made following the standards of the
overlay zone, the provisions of this section shall specifically supersede the
floor area ratio, maximum height and minimum setback regulations contained in §
152.025, Central Commercial District, Schedule of Regulations. This standard
shall be tested for one year and then reviewed and adjusted.
      (3)   The provisions of the Building and Building Regulations of the City
Code and §
152.028, HPD - Historic Preservation District of the Zoning Ordinance, when in
conflict with this overlay zone, shall take precedence.
      (4)   The design of civic buildings and improvements shall not be subject
to the specific standards of this division, but shall be subject to negotiated
design by the Planning Board, and as required by §
152.028, HPD.
      (5)   All site, building and sign improvement standards contained in the
Downtown Bennettsville Masterplan shall be complied with on all site plan
approval applications.
      (6)   Locations designated on the Regulating Plan for new parking areas
and civic buildings shall be reserved for such development.
      (7)   Designated Landmark buildings shall be rehabilitated complying with
§
152.028, Historic Preservation District of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Specific standards.
      (1)   Building height. The various elements of building height shall be:
         (a)   Maximum height of three stories and 42 feet; this shall be
interpreted as shown on the Regulating Plan.
         (b)   For Zone C and P, building height shall be negotiated with the
Planning Board.
         (c)   Stories at sidewalk level shall be a minimum of ten feet in
height from finished floor to finished ceiling. The Planning Board may reduce
this standard for rehabilitation of existing structures that do not meet this
standard.
         (d)   A transition line shall be provided between the first and second
stories. The transition shall be detailed to facilitate an awning.
      (2)   Building placement. Buildings and their elements shall be placed on
lots as follows:
         (a)   Front building facades at the first story shall be located at
the frontage line as shown on the Regulating Plan.
         (b)   In the event of adjacent preexisting setbacks, an adjustment may
be allowed or required by the Planning Board.
         (c)   In the absence of a building facade, a screenwall shall be built
along the frontage line aligned with the adjacent building facade. Screenwalls
shall be between two and one-half and three and one-half feet in height and
made of brick, stone or other masonry material matching the building.
Screenwalls that are not for the purpose of screening off-street parking lots
may be a continuous, maintained evergreen hedge. Screenwalls may have openings
a maximum of 25 feet in width to allow vehicular and pedestrian access.
         (d)   Side setbacks shall not be required, provided that exterior
walls provide the required fire resistance rating required by the Building
Code.
         (e)   A minimum 12-foot rear yard building setback shall be provided
from the mid-point of the alley, except that the Planning Board may allow this
setback to be reduced or eliminated. In the absence of an alley, the rear
setback shall be equal to that of the building that backs onto the lot.
         (f)   Awnings may encroach the frontage line and public sidewalk, but
must avoid the street trees, provide at least eight feet of clearance above the
sidewalk and be set back a minimum of one foot from the street curb line.
         (g)   Loading docks and service areas shall be permitted only within
rear yards. Doors for access to interior loading docks and service areas shall
not face a public street.
         (h)   Off-street parking on the first story shall not be permitted
within 20 feet of any building facade on a frontage line or between the
building facade and a frontage line.
         (i)   All buildings shall have their principal pedestrian entrance on
a frontage line.
      (3)   Building use. Buildings shall accommodate the following range of
uses for the various zones designated on the Regulating Plan of the Downtown
Bennettsville Overlay Zoning District:
         (a)   Uses shall be limited to those allowed in each underlying zoning
district, unless otherwise specifically provided for herein. In addition, the
following uses are not permitted under the standards of this overlay zone:
            1.   Automatic food and drink vending machines outdoors;
            2.   Drive-in facilities or any commercial use which encourages
patrons to remain in their automobiles while receiving goods or services,
except bank drive-thru; and
            3.   Outdoor advertising or billboards.
         (b)   Civic buildings (C) shall be premises used principally for
education, worship, cultural performances, and gatherings administered by non-
profit cultural, educational, and religious organizations. Buildings are used
principally for local, state, and federal government, administration, provision
of public services, education, cultural performances, and gatherings.
         (c)   Parking buildings (P) shall be premises used primarily for
parking, except retail frontages may be allowed at the first floor level.
         (d)   Downtown Buildings may be used for any commercial, office, or
residential use allowed in the underlying zoning district. Upper story uses may
be commercial, office, or residential, provided that no commercial or office
use shall be located on a story above a residential use.
            1.   Exterior evidence of internal residential area that would
alter the business or historic character of the principal building. Examples
include, but are not limited to. satellite receiver: outdoor clothesline. A
Conditional Use Permit is required.
            2.   Bed and Breakfast Inns or guest cottages of five or fewer
guest rooms, shall be permitted in the DBOZD.
         (e)   Frontage. Buildings that have frontage along the Required Retail
Frontage lines, shall be built to the frontage line as specified on the
Regulating Plan, and must consist of retail within the first story. Uses that
constitute retail include: artisan, civic, commercial, cultural, entertainment,
or restaurant uses. Lobbies for hotels, offices and multiple family dwellings
may be considered as part of the Required Retail Frontage, provided that such
lobby occupies no more than 50% of the frontage of the structure.
         (f)   Retail, office, or residential uses are required to have a
minimum depth of 20 feet from the frontage line on all stories. The remaining
depth may be used for off-street parking. Parking access on a frontage line
shall be an opening a maximum of 25 feet wide. Openings for parking garage
access shall repeat the same rhythm and proportion as the rest of the building
to maintain a consistent streetscape.
         (g)   Seating for outdoor dining shall be allowed to encroach upon the
public sidewalks, with the exception of a five-foot clear pedestrian passage.
This provision shall not exempt the applicant from obtaining the necessary
leases from the city for use of public space.
      (4)   Parking requirements.
         (a)   For all non-residential uses located within the DBOZD, parking
on the site shall not be required.
         (b)   For all residential uses located within the DBOZD, the on-site
parking requirements may be met through leasing the required spaces from an
off-site parking area.
         (c)   AH sites located in the DBOZD must be designed in accordance
with the requirements of parking, loading, and screening in the Zoning
Ordinance.
         (d)   All off-street parking shall comply with the screening
requirement contained in this section.
      (5)   Architectural standards. All buildings shall be subject to the
following physical requirements:
         (a)   At least 90% of the exterior finish material on all facades that
face a street shall be limited to the following: glass, brick, cut stone, cast
stone, or smooth cement stucco.
         (b)   The color of building exteriors shall be within the same
quadrant of the color circle as adjacent buildings.
         (c)   Blank walls shall not face a public street. Walls facing a
public street shall include windows and architectural features customarily
found on the front facade of a building.
         (d)   Storefronts shall be directly accessible from public sidewalks.
Each storefront must have transparent areas, equal to 70% of its portion of the
facade, between two and eight feet from the ground. The wood or metal armature
of such storefronts shall be painted, bronzed, or powder coated.
         (e)   Storefronts shall have the mullion systems, with doorways and
signage integrally designed and painted.
         (f)   The glazed area of a facade above the first floor shall not
exceed 35% of the total area with the facade being calculated independently.
         (g)   Glass shall be clear only.
         (h)   Facade openings, including porches, windows, and colonnades,
shall be vertical in proportion.
         (i)   Sliding doors and siding windows are prohibited along frontage
lines.
         (j)   Flat roofs shall be enclosed by parapets at least 42 inches
high, or higher if required to conceal equipment.
         (k)   Cantilevered mansard roofs are prohibited.
         (l)   Balconies, railings, and porch structures shall be metal, wood,
cast concrete, or stone.
         (m)   Facades may be supplemented by awnings that shall be straight
sheds without side flaps, not cubed or curved. Awnings shall be between seven
and 12 feet above sidewalk grade at the lower drip edge.
         (n)   Outside dining tables and chairs shall be primarily metal or
wood (no plastic).
         (o)   Buildings which terminate a view as designated on the Regulating
Plan shall provide distinct and prominent architectural features of enhanced
character and visibility which reflect the importance of the building’s
location and creates a positive visual landmark.
      (6)   Signage standards. Signage, when provided, shall be as follows:
         (a)   Signage shall be integrally designed made of weather proof
material and painted with the storefront. A detailed description, sketch or
picture must be submitted for approval prior to issuance of permit.
         (b)   Address numbers shall be a maximum of eight inches in vertical
dimension. The quantity and location shall be as required for post office
purposes.
         (c)   A single external sign band or zone may be applied to the façade
of each building between the first and second floors, providing that the size
is 25% or less than total wall area. The sign band or zone may contain multiple
individual signs, but all must refer to a tenant of the building. Smaller
identification signs, not to exceed 18 inches by 24 inches, may be placed
beside the entrance at eye level.
         (d)   Additional pedestrian, blade, or shingle signs may be attached
to a building perpendicular to the facade extending up to four feet from the
facade. These signs shall be a maximum of one and one-half feet in vertical
dimension and four feet in horizontal dimension. There may be one individual
pedestrian sign for each business located on the first floor.
         (e)   The storefront glass may be stenciled with signage not to exceed
one and one-half feet in vertical dimension and four feet in horizontal
dimension.
         (f)   The vertical drip of an awning may be stenciled with signage a
maximum of eight inches in vertical dimension by any length.
         (g)   External signs may be translucent or externally lighted,
provided the signage plan is approved by the zoning administrator. Neon signs
are permitted within the interior shop fronts providing they do not exceed a
maximum of four square feet in area.
      (7)   Boundaries. 
         (a)   All that area within the boundary, as shown on the official map,
and described as follows:
Begin at Crooked Creek
Cheraw Street to West Main Street
West Main Street to Jennings Street
Jennings Street to McColl Street
McColl Street to Liberty Street
Liberty Street to King Street and a line extending Liberty Street to Fleet
Street
Fleet Street to Broad Street
Broad Street to Fayetteville Avenue
Fayetteville Avenue to Cook Street
Cook Street to East Main Street
East Main Street to John Corry Road
John Corry Road to Market Street
Market Street to Marlboro Street
Marlboro Street to Crooked Creek
Crooked Creek to Cheraw Street
This area includes East, West, North and South sides of the boundary lines and
all streets and areas within.
         (b)   The official boundary lines may be changed at any time with the
approval of City Council.
(Ord. 00-08-01, passed 8-15-00; Am. Ord. 02-04-06, passed 4-16-02; Am. Ord. 17-
10-002, passed 10-17-17)
§ 152.032 CEMETERY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum area for a cemetery shall be five acres.
   (B)   Setback.
      (1)   Where a cemetery adjoins non-residentially-zoned property, no
setback is required. However, if a setback is provided, it shall not be less
than five feet in width.
      (2)   When a cemetery adjoins residentially zoned property, no building
structure, burial plot or storage of equipment or materials shall have a
minimum setback of 50 feet of the adjacent residentially zoned property and
have a minimum setback of 25 feet from all road right-of-ways.
   (C)   Screening and buffering.
      (1)   Screening must be provided alongside and rear exterior lot lines
where any non-residential use is adjacent to a residential use and/or district
for the purpose of screening non-residential activities from view. Unless
otherwise required, the following landscaping and screening provisions will
apply.
      (2)   A six foot wall, fence, berm, evergreen screening plant material,
or a combination of wall, fence, berm or evergreen screening plant material
with a combined height of six feet above grade shall be used for the purposes
of screening. If evergreen plant material is used, it must be at least four
feet in height at time of planting and capable of forming a continuous opaque
screen at least six feet in height, with individual plantings spaced not more
than five feet apart. Berms shall have a side slope no greater than 3:1.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Adequate off-street waiting space shall be
provided for funeral processions so that no vehicle stands or waits in a road
right-of-way.
   (E)   Access. All cemetery access shall be provided from an arterial or
collector street.
   (F)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Mausoleums may be located only within the boundaries of approved
cemeteries.
      (2)   Cemetery review standards shall apply to all cemeteries, regardless
of zoning classification.
      (3)   A storm water plan must be submitted and approved by the city
before cemetery approval may be granted.
      (4)   A cemetery may not be located in a flood plain or floodway (i.e.,
an area of special flood hazard).
      (5)   Perpetual care cemeteries must also comply with S.C. Code, Title
40, Chapter 8.
   (G)   Preexisting cemeteries. Any cemetery or portion of a cemetery that is
preexisting on the date of adoption of this section shall be considered a non-
conforming use. All other shall be subject to the specific provisions of this
section.
   (H)   Columbariums. Columbariums are allowed on church properties and
cemetery properties in all districts as a use permitted by special exception by
the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals.
(Ord. 12-11-01, passed 11-20-12)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 152.045 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The regulations herein set forth shall apply and govern in all
districts. No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance
with the regulations of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of these regulations is to protect the dual interest
of the public and the advertiser.
      (2)   They are designed to protect public safety and welfare and to
ensure the maintenance of an attractive community environment while satisfying
the needs of sign users for adequate identification, communication and
advertising.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.046 APPLICABILITY; CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   This subchapter regulates the number, size, placement and physical
characteristics of signs, allows certain signs without permits, prohibits
certain signs and requires permits for certain signs.
   (B)   From and after the adoption of this subchapter, no sign may be erected
or enlarged in the city unless it conforms to the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.047 SIGNS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Signs shall be allowed on private property in the city in accordance
with Appendix A.
   (B)   Although permitted under the previous division, a sign designated by
an “A” in Appendix A shall be allowed only if in compliance with the
conditional requirements.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
Editor’s note:
   All matters regarding code enforcement except health and safety shall be
dealt with utilizing the
    summons process and Municipal Court.
§ 152.048 COMMON SIGNAGE PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A common signage plan shall be prerequisite to the issuance of any
sign permit involving:
      (1)   Two or more contiguous lots or parcels under the same ownership;
      (2)   A single lot or parcel with more than one principal use or building
(not including accessory uses or buildings) or qualifying on the basis of
street frontage for more than one free-standing sign; and
      (3)   The identification or announcement of a land subdivision or
development project.
   (B)   The plan shall contain all information required for sign permits
generally and shall also specify standards for consistency among all signs on
the zone lot affected by the plan with regard to:
      (1)   Lettering or graphic style;
      (2)   Lighting;
      (3)   Location of each sign on the buildings;
      (4)   Material; and
      (5)   Sign proportions.
   (C)   The common signage plan, for all zone lots with multiple uses or
multiple users, shall limit the number of free-standing signs to a total of one
for each street on which the zone lots included in the plan have frontage and
shall provide for shared or common usage of the signs. The maximum sign area
may be increased by 25%.
   (D)   Once approved by the Building Official, the common signage plan shall
become binding on all business and used occupying the affected zone lots, but
may be amended by filing a new or revised plan that conforms with all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   If any new or amended common signage plan is filed or a property on
which existing signs are located, it shall include a schedule for bringing into
conformance, within three years, all signs not conforming to the proposed
amended plan or to the requirements of this subchapter in effect on the date of
submission.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.049 SIGNS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No sign shall be allowed in the public right-of-way, except for the
following:
   (A)   Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body to post
legal notices, identify public property, convey public information and direct
or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
   (B)   Bus stop signs erected by a public transit company;
   (C)   Informational signs of a public agency or utility regarding its
facilities;
   (D)   Awning, projecting and suspended signs projecting over a public right-
of-way in conformity with the conditions established by this section; and
   (E)   Emergency signs.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.050 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   The following conditions shall apply to all temporary signs:
   (A)   No sign, with or without a permit, shall be displayed for a period
exceeding 60 consecutive days within any six-month period.
   (B)   Posters shall not exceed six square feet in area, and portable signs
shall not exceed ten square feet in area.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.051 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All signs allowed by this subchapter shall comply with the development
standards of this section.
   (A)   Visual area clearance. No sign shall be located within a vision
clearance area, as defined in §
152.088.
   (B)   Vehicle area clearance. When a sign extends over an area where
vehicles travel or are parked, the bottom of the sign structure shall be at
least 14 feet above the ground. Vehicle areas include driveways, alleys,
parking lots and loading and maneuvering areas.
   (C)   Pedestrian area clearance. When a sign extends over sidewalks,
walkways or other spaces accessible to pedestrians, the bottom of the sign
structure shall be at least 8½ feet from the ground.
   (D)   Sign materials. Signs must be constructed of durable all-weather
materials, maintained in good condition and not permitted to fall in disrepair.
   (E)   Sign illumination.
      (1)   Signs, when illuminated, shall have the lighting shielded so as not
to directly shine on abutting properties or in the line of vision of the public
using the streets or sidewalks.
      (2)   No illumination simulating traffic-control devices or emergency
vehicles shall be used, nor shall lights which are intermittently switched on
and off, changed in intensity or color, or otherwise displayed to create the
illusion of flashing or movement be permitted.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052 SIGN MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   Sign face area.
      (1)   The area of a sign enclosed in frames or cabinets is determined by
measuring the outer dimensions of the frame or cabinet surrounding the sign
face. Sign area does not include foundations or supports only one side of a
double-faced or V-shaped freestanding sign is counted.
      (2)   For signs on a base material and attached without a frame, such as
a wood board or plexiglass panel, the dimensions of the base material are to be
used in the measurement unless it is clear that part of the base contains no
sign related display or decoration.
      (3)   For signs constructed of individual pieces attached to a building
wall, sign area is determined by a perimeter drawn around all the pieces.
      (4)   For sign structures containing multiple modules oriented in the
same direction, the modules together are counted as one sign face.
      (5)   The maximum surface area visible at one time of a round or three
dimensional sign is counted to determine sign area.
      (6)   For signs incorporated into awnings, the entire panel containing
the sign is counted as the sign face unless it is clear that part of the panel
contains no sign related display or decoration.
   (B)   Clearances. Clearances are measured from the grade directly below the
sign to the bottom of the sign structure enclosing the sign face.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
Cross-reference:
   Sign Types; Illustrations, see Appendix C
§ 152.053 REMOVAL.
   (A)   The lawful use of any permanently mounted sign existing at the time of
the enactment of this subchapter may be continued although the use does not
conform with the provisions of this subchapter, except those declared
abandoned, which shall be removed within 90 days of the effective date hereof.
   (B)   Any existing sign which is subsequently abandoned shall be removed,
and any existing sign exceeding the allowable face area by 25%, and which is
subsequently destroyed or damaged to the extent of 50% or more of its
replacement cost, shall be removed or brought into conformity with these
regulations.
   (C)   Any nonconforming temporary sign which is not permanently mounted
shall be removed or brought into conformity no later than 60 days following the
effective date of this subchapter.
   (D)   An order under this section shall be issued in writing to the owner or
responsible party of any sign, or of the building or premises on which the sign
is located to comply within five days time. Upon failure to comply with the
notice, the Building Official may cause the sign to be removed and any costs of
removal incurred in the process may be collected in a manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
Editor’s note:
   All matters regarding code enforcement except health and safety shall be
dealt with utilizing the
    summons process and Municipal Court.
OFF-STREET REGULATIONS
§ 152.065 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street automobile storage or parking spaces shall be provided on
every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established except
in the C-1, central commercial district. The number of parking spaces provided
shall be at least as great as the number specified below for the particular
uses. When application of the provisions results in a fractional space
requirement, the next larger requirements shall prevail.
      (1)   Single-family residential dwellings shall have one space.
      (2)   Two- or more family residential dwellings shall have three spaces
for each two units.
      (3)   Tourist courts, hotels and motels shall have one space for each
unit.
      (4)   Trailer parks or courts shall have one space for each unit.
      (5)   Hospital and clinics shall have one space for each two patient
beds, plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor, plus one space for each
four employees, including nurses.
      (6)   Funeral parlors shall have one space for each 50 square feet of
service area.
      (7)   Churches, spiritual institutions and places of public assembly with
fixed seats shall have one space for each four seats in the principal assembly
room.
      (8)   Places of public or private assembly or recreation without fixed
seats shall have one space for each 200 feet of gross floor space directed to
patron use.
      (9)   Schools, elementary and junior high, shall have one for each 15
seats in the main assembly room.
      (10)   Schools, senior high, shall have one space for each eight seats in
the main assembly room.
      (11)   Doctor and dentist offices shall have five spaces per each doctor
or dentist.
      (12)   Professional and business offices shall have one space for each
300 square feet of gross floor space.
      (13)   Banks shall have one space for each 150 square feet of gross floor
space.
      (14)   Private clubs, fraternities, sororities, lodges, and the like,
with no sleeping facilities shall have one space for each five active members.
      (15)   Public libraries, museums or art galleries shall have ten spaces
for each use.
      (16)   Sanitariums, convalescent homes, homes for the aged or similar
institutions shall have one space for each five patient beds.
      (17)   Animal hospitals shall have one space for each 400 square feet of
gross floor space.
      (18)   Bus terminals shall have one space for each 100 square feet of
gross floor space.
      (19)   Bowling alleys shall have five spaces per alley.
      (20)   Retail stores and shops of all kinds, including barber and shoe
and similar service outlets, shall have one space for each 250 square feet of
gross floor space.
      (21)   Car sales, house and truck trailer sales, outdoor equipment and
machinery sales and commercial nurseries shall have four spaces for each
salesperson, plus one space for each two other employees.
      (22)   Restaurants shall have one space for each three seating
accommodations, plus one space for each two employees on shift of greatest
employment.
      (23)   General service or repair establishments, printing, publishing,
plumbing, heating, and the like, shall have one space for each three employees.
      (24)   Wholesaling and industrial uses shall have one space for each two
employees at maximum employment on a single shift, plus one space for each
company vehicle operating from the premises.
   (B)   The parking space requirements for a use not specifically listed above
shall be the same as for a listed use of similar characteristics of parking
demand generation.
   (C)   In the case of mixed uses, uses with different parking requirements
occupying the same building or premises, or in the case of joint use of a
building or premises by more than one use having the same parking requirements,
the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of the requirements of the
various uses computed separately.
   (D)   Whenever a building or use, constructed or established after the
effective date of these regulations, is changed or enlarged in floor area,
number of employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise,
to create a need for an increase of 10% or more in the number of existing
parking spaces, the spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or
change.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 12-11-003, passed 11-20-12)
§ 152.066 LOCATION ON OTHER PROPERTY.
   If the required automobile parking spaces cannot reasonably be provided on
the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the spaces may be
provided on other off-street property provided the property lies within 200
feet of the main entrance to the principal use. The automobile parking space
shall be associated with the principal use and shall not thereafter be reduced
or encroached upon in any manner.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.067 EXTENSIONS INTO RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Required off-street parking space may extend up to 120 feet into a
residential zoning district, provided that:
   (A)   The parking space adjoins a commercial or industrial district;
   (B)   Has its only access to or fronts upon the same street as the property
in the commercial or industrial district for which it provides the required
parking space; and
   (C)   Is separated from abutting properties in the residential district by a
ten-foot wide evergreen buffer strip.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.068 JOINT USE OF OFF-SITE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Up to 50% of the parking spaces required for theaters, public
auditoriums, bowling alleys, dance halls and clubs, and up to 100% of the
parking spaces required for a church auditorium may be provided and used
jointly by bands, offices, retail stores, repair shops, service establishments
and similar uses not normally open, used or operated during the same hours as
those listed. Written agreement thereto must be properly executed and filed as
specified below.
   (B)   In any case, where the required parking spaces are not located on the
same lot with the building or use served, or where the spaces are collectively
or jointly provided and used, a written agreement thereby assuring their
retention for the purposes shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties
concerned, approved as to form by the City Attorney and shall be filed with the
application for a permit.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.069 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum area. For the purpose of these regulations, an off-street
parking space is an all-weather surfaced area not in a street or alley and
having an area of not less than 180 square feet, exclusive of driveways,
permanently reserved for the temporary storage of one automobile and connected
with a street or alley by an all-weather surfaced driveway which affords
ingress and egress for an automobile without requiring another automobile to be
moved.
   (B)   Drainage and maintenance.
      (1)   Off-street parking facilities shall be drained to prevent damage to
abutting property and/or public streets or alleys and surfaced with erosion-
resistant material.
      (2)   Off-street parking areas shall be maintained in a clean, orderly
and dust-free condition as the expense of the owner or lessee and not used for
the sale, repair or dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment,
materials or supplies.
   (C)   Separation from walkways and streets. Off-street parking spaces shall
be separated from walkways, sidewalks, streets or alleys by a wall, fence or
curbing or other approved protective device.
   (D)   Entrances and exits. Landscaping, curbing or other approved barriers
shall be provided along lot boundaries to control entrance and exit of vehicles
or pedestrians.
   (E)   Marking.
      (1)   Parking spaces in lots of more than ten spaces shall be marked, by
painted lines or curbs or other means to indicate individual spaces.
      (2)   Signs or markers shall be used as necessary to ensure efficient
traffic operation of the lot.
   (F)   Lighting. Adequate lighting shall be provided if off-street parking
spaces are to be used at night. The lighting shall be arranged and installed to
minimize glare on property in a residential district.
   (G)   Screening. When off-street parking areas for ten or more automobiles
are located closer than 50 feet to a lot in a residential district, or to any
lot upon which there is a dwelling as a permitted use under these regulations,
and where the parking areas are not entirely screened visually from the lot by
an intervening building or structure, there shall be provided along the lot
line a continuous, visual screen with a minimum height of six feet, the screen
may consist of a compact evergreen hedge or foliage screening or a louvered
wall or fence.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.070 LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be provided at the time any building is erected or structurally
altered off-street loading space in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Retail, restaurant, wholesale, warehouse, general service,
manufacturing or industrial establishments shall have the following number of
parking spaces.
      (1)   For up to 10,000 square feet of floor area, one.
      (2)   For 10,000 to 20,000 square feet of floor area, two.
      (3)   For 20,000 to 40,000 square feet of floor area, three.
      (4)   For 40,000 to 60,000 square feet of floor area, four.
      (5)   For each 50,000 over 60,000, one additional.
   (B)   Apartment buildings, hotels, motels, offices, office buildings,
hospitals or similar institutions or places of public assembly shall have the
following number of parking spaces.
      (1)   For up to 10,000, one.
      (2)   For 10,000 to 100,000, two.
      (3)   For 100,000 to 200,000, three.
      (4)   For each 100,000 over 200,000, one additional.
   (C)   Funeral homes or mortuaries shall have the following number of parking
spaces.
      (1)   For up to 4,000, one.
      (2)   For 4,000 to 6,000, two.
      (3)   For each 10,000 over 6,000, one additional.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.085 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this subchapter supplement or modify the
district regulations set forth in §§
152.020 through
152.030.
      (1)   Nonconforming use may be continued. Except as otherwise provided
herein, the lawful use of land or buildings existing at the effective date of
this chapter may be continued although such does not conform to the provisions
hereof. Except as provided in the section, the nonconforming use may not be
enlarged, extended, reconstructed or structurally altered except in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Change of nonconforming use. If no structural alterations are made,
a nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use
of the same classification. Whenever a nonconforming use of land or building
has changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, the use shall not
thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use.
      (3)   Extension of use within existing building. The nonconforming use of
a building may be hereafter extended throughout those parts of a building which
are primarily arranged or designed for the use at the time of the enactment of
this chapter.
      (4)   Buildings nonconforming in height, area, yard or bulk. A building
nonconforming as to height, area, yard or bulk requirements may be altered or
extended, provided the alteration or extension does not increase the degree of
nonconformity in any respect.
      (5)   Discontinuance of nonconforming use. No nonconforming building or
portion thereof in whole or in part in a residential district which remains
idle or unused for a continuous period of 120 days, or which remains idle,
unused or without utilities which are required by the International Property
Maintenance Code in any other district for a period of 12 months, whether or
not the equipment or fixtures are removed, shall again be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which the building or land
is located. No nonconforming mobile home on an individual lot or parcel shall
be replaced by another nonconforming mobile home after removal or
discontinuance of use for seven consecutive days. However, mobile homes in
nonconforming mobile home parks or courts may be replaced as long as the total
number of units does not exceed the total number in place at the time of
enactment, amendment or revision of this chapter.
      (6)   Destruction of a nonconforming use. No building which has been
damaged by any cause whatsoever to the extent of more than 50% of the fair
market value of the building, immediately prior to the damage, shall be
restored except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter and all
rights as a nonconforming use are terminated. If a building is damaged by less
than 50% of the fair market values, it may be repaired or reconstructed and
used as before the time of damage, provided that the repairs or reconstruction
be substantially completed within 12 months of the date of the damage. The
provisions of this division shall not, apply to any bona fide residence,
including mobile homes used for residential purposes. The uses may be
reestablished regardless of the extent of damage.
      (7)   Intermittent use. The casual, intermittent, temporary or illegal
use of land or buildings shall not be sufficient to establish the existence of
a nonconforming use, and the existence of a nonconforming use on a part of a
lot or tract shall not be construed to establish a nonconforming use on the
entire lot or tract.
      (8)   Nonconforming lots of record. Where a lot of record at the time of
the effective date of this chapter has less area or depth than herein required
in the district in which it is located, and the owner of the lot does not own
any other parcel or tract adjacent thereto, the lot may nevertheless be used,
for any use permitted within the district in which it is located, provided that
side yard setbacks shall not be reduced below five feet, rear yard setbacks
below 15 feet or front yard setbacks below 35 feet except by a variance from
the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals.
   (B)   If, however, the owner of two or more adjoining lots, with
insufficient land dimensions, decides to build on or sell off these lots, he
must combine the lots to comply, with the dimensional requirements of the
chapter.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05; Am. Ord. 13-
05-001, passed 5-20-14)
§ 152.086 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   Notwithstanding the applicable provisions of this chapter, all proposed
uses, buildings or structures within any established flood hazard area, as
delineated on flood hazard area maps for the city, shall meet the additional
requirements contained in the city’s flood hazard ordinance, 1987, as amended.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.087 MODIFICATIONS OF LOT AREA AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area requirements per unit shall not apply to dormitories,
fraternities, sororities, nursing homes or other similar group quarters where
no cooking facilities are provided in individual rooms or apartments.
   (B)   (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Whenever a lot abuts upon an alley, half of the alley width may
be considered as a portion of the required yard.
         (b)   Whenever more than one main building is to be located on a lot
the required yards shall be maintained around the group buildings and buildings
shall be separated by a horizontal distance that is at least equal to the
height of the highest adjacent building, unless otherwise specified.
         (c)   Sills, belt courses, windows, air-conditioning units, chimneys,
cornices and ornamental features may project into a required yard a distance
not to exceed 24 inches.
         (d)   Filling station pumps and pump islands may occupy required
yards, provided that they are not less than 15 feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Front yards.
         (a)   The front yard setback requirements for dwelling shall not apply
on any lot where the average setback of existing buildings located wholly or in
part within 100 feet on each side of the lot within the same block and zoning
district and fronting on the same side of the street is less than the minimum
required setback. In such cases, the setback on the lot may be less than the
required setback but not less than the average of the setbacks of the
aforementioned existing buildings.
         (b)   Where a lot fronts on two nonintersecting streets, front yards
shall be provided on both streets.
      (3)   Side yards.
         (a)   Where a side yard abuts a street corner lot, the setback
requirements shall be not less than 50% of the front yard required on the lot
lying to the rear of the corner lot, no accessory building shall extend beyond
the adjacent front yard setback.
         (b)   The minimum width of side yards for day and child care centers,
churches, community buildings and other public and semi-public buildings in
residential districts shall be 25 feet, unless otherwise specified.
         (c)   No side yards are required where dwellings are erected above
commercial and industrial structures, except the side yard as may be required
for a commercial or industrial use is contiguous to that of a residential
district.
         (d)   Where the side yard of a commercial or industrial use is
contiguous to that of a residential use in an A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, or AC-
1 district, the commercial or industrial use shall observe the minimum side
yard setback for the district within which the residential use is located.
      (4)   Rear yards.
         (a)   Open fire escapes, outside stairways and balconies, air
conditioning units and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues into a
rear yard for a distance of not more than four feet may be permitted when so
placed as to not obstruct light and ventilation.
         (b)   Where the rear yard of a commercial or industrial use is located
contiguous to that of a residential use in an A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4 or AC-
1 district, the commercial or industrial use shall observe the minimum rear
yard setback for the district within which the residential use is located.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.088 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On any corner lot in any district, except the C-1 district, no planting
shall be placed or maintained and no fence, building, wall or other shall be
constructed, after the effective date of this chapter, if the planting or
structure thereby obstructs vision at any point between a height of 2½ feet and
ten feet above the upper face of the nearest curb (or street center line if no
curb exists) and within the triangular area bounded on two sides by the street
right-of-way lines as required by the side triangular and vertical vision
clearance illustration. However, poles and support structures less than 12
inches in diameter may be permitted in the areas.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.089 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES; APARTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The number of accessory buildings shall not exceed two in any
zoning district.
         (b)   Accessory buildings in residential districts shall not be used
for storage in connection with a trade.
         (c)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 50% of the gross floor area
(GFA) of the principal building or use.
      (2)   Location in required yards.
         (a)   Off-street parking may be located in required yards in the ROI-
1, C-2 and U-1 districts but not within five feet of a residential property
line.
         (b)   Signs may be located in required yards in all zoning districts,
but no closer than five feet to any property or street right-of-way line.
         (c)   Accessory buildings, including garages, carports, domestic
kennels, storage sheds, and the like, may be located in required rear and side
yards only; provided the uses shall be located no closer than five feet to any
property line.
         (d)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and recreational uses may be
located in all required yards. The uses shall be no closer than ten feet to the
nearest residential property line, nor the deck of the pool any closer than
five feet, and shall have all lighting shielded or directed away from adjoining
residences.
         (e)   Satellite dishes, ham radio towers and ground supported
television antennas may be located in required yards; provided that the uses
shall observe a ten-foot setback from all residential property lines however,
no use shall be located in front of any dwelling or building in the A-1, A-2,
A-3, A-4, ROI-1 or MH-l districts.
   (B)   An accessory apartment, where permitted by this chapter, shall meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   The principal structure or dwelling must be owner-occupied.
      (2)   The apartment, whether attached or detached, cannot exceed 50% of
the gross floor area of the principal dwelling, or contain more than two
bedrooms.
      (3)   The apartment must be a complete living space, with kitchen and
bathroom facilities separate from the principal unit.
      (4)   The apartment shall be accessory only to a single-family dwelling,
and not more than one apartment shall be allowed per dwelling or lot.
      (5)   The lot size shall be at least 50% greater where an accessory
apartment is proposed than the minimum required lot area for the district in
which the lot is located.
      (6)   The apartment shall meet all yard and setback requirements and,
where detached from the principal dwelling, shall be set back not less than ten
feet from the principal dwelling.
      (7)   Evidence of the accessory apartment should not be apparent from the
street.
      (8)   A third off-street parking space shall be required.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.090 ACCESS TO STRUCTURES REQUIRED.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, or with access to any approved private street, and all
structures shall be so located as to provide safe and convenient access for
servicing, fire protection and required off-street parking.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.091 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles and equipment. No major recreational vehicles or
equipment shall be parked or stored in any required front or side yard
extending beyond the front of the structure or setback area in a residential
district. The equipment, however, may be parked anywhere on residential
premises for a period not to exceed 24 hours during loading or unloading. No
equipment shall be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes when
parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any location not approved for the
uses.
   (B)   Non-recreational vehicles and equipment.
      (1)   No automobile, truck or trailer of any kind or type, without
current license plates, shall be parked, and construction equipment shall not
be stored on any lot zoned for residential use, other than in completely
enclosed buildings, or screened from vision from the public street serving the
property.
      (2)   Parking or vehicles, implements and/or equipment used for
commercial, industrial, farm or construction purposes in residential districts
shall be limited to one vehicle per residence, and shall weigh no more than 2½
tons.
      (3)   Vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 2½ tons and used for
commercial, industrial, farm or construction purposes are prohibited from
parking in residential districts including the street or highway right-of-way
in the districts, when not actively involved in commerce.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 10-01-01, passed 1-19-10) Penalty, see
§
152.999
§ 152.092 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Uses may be permitted by the Building Official, subject to the
conditions attached thereto:
      (1)   Religious meetings in a tent or other temporary structures in the
C-2 district for a period not to exceed 45 days;
      (2)   Open lot sales of Christmas trees, in the C-2 and U-1 districts for
a period not to exceed 45 days;
      (3)   Contractor’s office and equipment shed in any district for a period
covering construction phase of the project, not to exceed one year; provided
that the office be placed on the property to which
it is appurtenant; and
      (4)   Real estate office in conjunction with a major project, 50 or more
lots, provided the office is removed when 75% of the lots are sold or
developed.
   (B)   All temporary use permits may be renewed without limitation, provided
the use is clearly of a temporary nature, will cause no traffic congestion, nor
create a nuisance to surrounding uses.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.093 ANNEXED PROPERTY.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed into the city shall be zoned A-
1 unless at the time the application for annexation is filed, the applicant(s)
request an alternative zoning classification. In such case(s), the matter shall
be referred to the Planning Commission for review and recommendation to City
Council as to the request and the type of zoning for the area to be annexed.
The City Council shall then act on the zoning request at the time it rules on
the annexation.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.094 USE OF LAND OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No land or structure shall be used or occupied, and no structure or
portions thereof shall be constructed, erected, altered or moved, unless in
conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it
is located.
   (B)   No structure shall be erected or altered:
      (1)   With greater height, size, bulk or other dimensions;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than required by this chapter, or in any other manner than
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except for the following uses and projects, no more than one principal
building may be located upon a lot of record:
      (1)   Institutional buildings;
      (2)   Industrial buildings;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (4)   Commercial buildings;
      (5)   Planned development projects; and
      (6)   Mobile home parks.
   (D)   Where more than one principal building is located on a lot, the
required setbacks for the district shall be maintained along all property
lines.
   (E)   (1)   The minimum yards, parking spaces and open spaces required by
these regulations for each building existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter shall not be encroached upon, reduced or considered as required yards,
parking or open space for any other building, except as otherwise provided
herein.
      (2)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.095 BUFFER AREAS.
   (A)   Definition. A buffer area is a unit of yard, together with plantings,
fences, walls and other screening devices required thereon.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of a buffer area is to ameliorate nuisances
between adjacent land uses and streets, and promote land use compatibility.
Additionally, the buffer area is designed to safeguard property values and
preserve the character and ambience of the city.
   (C)   Location. Buffer areas shall be located on the outer perimeter of a
lot or parcel, extending to the lot or parcel boundary line. They shall not be
located on any portion of an existing street or right-of-way; however, they may
occupy part or all of any front, side or rear yard or setback required by this
chapter. Where required, buffer areas and/or buffer area structures shall be
developed as an integral part of the proposed use.
   (D)   Design standard. Three types of buffer areas are required by this
chapter, Type A, Type B and Type C.
      (1)   Type “A” buffer area.
         (a)   The Type A area consists of low density landscaping between a
proposed use and the adjacent street, providing separation between the two.
         (b)   The buffer area shall be a minimum width of five feet. Per 100
lineal feet of frontage, the buffer area shall consist of a combination of not
less than 12 ornamental shrubs, two understory trees and landscaped grass
areas, or other appropriate ground cover. The shrubs may be clustered to ensure
their survival. An example site plan is illustrated by Appendix E.
      (2)   Type “B” buffer area.
         (a)   The Type B area is a medium density screen intended to block
visual contact between uses and to create spatial separation. The buffer area
shall be a minimum width of ten feet. Per 100 lineal feet the screen shall
consist of a combination of two deciduous trees planted 40 to 60 feet on center
and eight evergreen plants ten feet on center.
         (b)   An example site plan is illustrated by the diagram in Appendix
E.
      (3)   Type “C” buffer area.
         (a)   The Type C area is a high density screen intended to exclude all
visual contact between uses and to create a spatial separation. The buffer area
shall be a minimum width of 15 feet. Per 100 lineal feet, the screen shall
consist of a combination of two deciduous trees planted 40 to 60 feet on center
and 17 evergreen plants or understory trees planted in a double staggered row
ten feet on center.
         (b)   An example site plan is illustrated by the diagram in Appendix
E.
   (E)   Determination of buffer area requirements. Buffer areas shall be
required under the following circumstances.
      (1)   Wherever a multi-family complex, mobile home park or non-
residential use is proposed, a Type A area shall be provided along with street
right-of-way boundary of the proposed use, separating it from the adjoining
street, except for driveways and visibility angles.
      (2)   Wherever a mobile home park, multi-family or townhouse project,
mini-warehouse, institutional or commercial use is proposed for a site or lot
adjoining a single-family residential use in a residentially-zoned district
with an intervening public or private street or right-of-way of 18 feet or
greater, a Type B area shall be provided along the boundary of the adjoining
residential property line. A Type B buffer area also shall be required between
the above listed residential and non-residential uses.
      (3)   Wherever an industrial, warehouse, outdoor storage or related use
is proposed for a site or lot adjoining any residential use in a residentially
zoned district with no intervening public or private street or right-of-way of
18 feet or greater, a Type C buffer area shall be provided along the boundary
of the residential property line.
   (F)   Buffer area specifications.
      (1)   Minimum installation size. At installation or planting, all
evergreen (understory) trees and/or shrubs used to fulfill buffer area
requirements shall be not less than six feet in height, and all deciduous
(canopy) trees shall be not less than eight feet in height, except for
ornamental shrubs for Type A buffer areas, which may be used.
      (2)   Minimum mature size. At maturity, evergreen plant material used for
screening shall form a continuous opaque screen averaging ten feet in height,
and deciduous plant material used for screening shall average 25 feet in
height.
      (3)   Staggered planting. Where required, evergreen and deciduous plant
material shall be planted in at least two rows and in an alternating fashion to
form a continuous opaque screen of plant material.
   (G)   Substitutions. The following substitutions shall satisfy the
requirements of this section:
      (1)   Existing plant materials. Existing trees of four inches DBH
(Diameter Breast High) or more in diameter, within the required buffer area may
be included in the computation of the required buffer area planting, with
approval of the Building Official.
      (2)   Fence or wall.
         (a)   Where, owing to existing land use, lot size or configurations,
topography or circumstances peculiar to a given piece of property, the buffer
area requirements of this section cannot reasonably be met, the developer(s)
may request and the Building Official may approve the substitution of
appropriate screening, in the way of a fence or wall structure along the
property line of the proposed use in accord with the provisions of this
division.
         (b)   A six-foot fence or wall, as illustrated below, may be
substituted for a Type B buffer areas, and an eight-foot fence may be
substituted for a Type C buffer area.
         (c)   All fences and walls used as part of the buffer area
requirements must have a finished side that is facing adjoining property. The
interior side of the fence or wall may be finished as owner deems appropriate.
Where fences or walls are proposed by the developer, but not required by the
applicable buffer area requirements, they shall be established along the inside
line of the buffer areas, toward the proposed use, except for ornamental
fences, which may be built on the property line.
   (H)   Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the proposed new use
to provide the buffer area where required by this chapter, except that no new
detached single-family use or duplex shall be required to provide the buffer
area.
   (I)   Required maintenance. The maintenance of required buffer areas shall
be the responsibility of the property owner. All areas shall be properly
maintained so as to ensure continued buffering. All planted areas shall be
provided with an irrigation system or a readily available water supply to
ensure continuous healthy growth and development. Dead trees shall be removed.
Debris and litter shall be cleaned and berms, fences and walls shall be
maintained at all times. Failure to do so is a violation of this chapter, and
may be remedied in the manner prescribed for other violations.
   (J)   Use of buffer areas. A buffer area may be used for passive recreation.
No plant material may be removed. All other uses are prohibited.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING; TREE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Screening.
      (1)   Definition. “Screening” is a type of buffer that is designed to
block or obscure a particular element, or use from view.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of screening is to minimize if not eliminate
entirely the visual impact of potentially unsightly open storage areas and
refuse disposal facilities.
      (3)   Where required. Screening specified by this section shall be
required of all open storage areas visible from any public street, including
boats, trailers, building materials, appliances, container- sized trash,
salvage materials and similar unenclosed uses.
      (4)   Type required. Screening shall be accomplished by an opaque divide
not less than six feet high. Screening may be accomplished by the use of sight
obscuring plant materials (generally evergreens), earth berms, walls, fences,
building parapets, proper siting of disruptive elements, building placement or
other design techniques approved by the Building Official.
   (B)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Definition. Landscaping is a type of open space permanently devoted
and maintained for the growing of shrubbery, grass, other plants and decorative
features to the land.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of landscaping is to improve the appearance of
vehicular use areas and property abutting public rights-of-way; to protect,
preserve and promote the aesthetic appeal, scenic beauty, character and value
of land in the city; to promote public health and safety through the reduction
of noise pollution, storm water run off, air pollution, visual pollution and
artificial light glare.
      (3)   Where required. No proposed multi-family or non-residential use
shall hereafter be established and subsequently used unless landscaping is
provided in accord with the provisions of this section. No existing building,
structure or vehicular use area shall be expanded or enlarged unless the
minimum landscaping required by the provisions of this section is provided to
the extent of the alteration or expansion. Landscaping is not required for
existing uses.
      (4)   Landscaping plan. A landscaping plan shall be submitted as part of
the application for a building permit. The plan shall:
         (a)   Designate areas to be reserved for landscaping. The specific
design of landscaping shall be sensitive to the physical and design
characteristics of the site.
         (b)   Indicate the location and dimensions of landscaped areas, plant
materials, decorative features, and the like.
         (c)   Identify all existing trees 12 inches DBH (diameter breast high)
in required setback (yard) areas.
      (5)   Landscaping requirements. Required landscaping shall be provided as
follows:
         (a)   Along the outer perimeter of a lot or parcel, where required by
the buffer area provisions of this chapter, to separate incompatible land uses.
The amount specified shall be as prescribed by §
152.095.
         (b)   Within the interior, peninsula or island type landscaped areas
shall be provided for any open vehicular use area containing 20 or more parking
spaces. Landscaped areas shall be located in a manner as to divide and break up
the expanse of paving and at strategic points to guide travel flow and
directions. Elsewhere, landscaped areas shall be designed to soften and
complement the building site.
         (c)   At a minimum, interior lot landscaping shall be provided in the
following amounts:
            1.   Institutional uses shall have 20% of the interior lot
landscaped.
            2.   Industrial/wholesale/storage uses shall have 5% of the
interior lot landscaped.
            3.   Office uses shall have 10% of the interior lot landscaped.
            4.   Commercial/retail/service uses shall have 8% of the interior
lot landscaped.
         (d)   Buffer area landscaping may provide up to 50% of the above
requirement. Landscaping along exterior building walls and structures is
suggested to separate with greenery the building from the vehicular surface
area.
      (6)   Landscaped areas.
         (a)   All landscaped areas in or adjacent to parking areas shall be
protected from vehicular damage by a raised concrete curb or an equivalent
barrier of six inches in height. The barrier need not be continuous.
         (b)   Landscaped areas must be at least 25 square feet in size and a
minimum of three feet wide to qualify.
         (c)   Landscaped areas adjacent to parking spaces shall be landscaped
so that no plant material greater than 12 inches in height is located within
two feet of the curb or other protective barrier. Plant material greater than
12 inches in height would be damaged by the automobile bumper overhang or by
doors swinging open over the landscaped area.
      (7)   Required maintenance. The maintenance of required landscaped areas
shall be the responsibility of the property owner. All areas shall be properly
maintained so as to assure their survival and aesthetic value, and shall be
provided with an irrigation system or a readily available water supply. Failure
to monitor the areas is a violation of this chapter, and may be remedied in the
manner prescribed for other violations.
   (C)   Common open space.
      (1)   Definition. Common open space is land and/or water bodies used for
recreation, amenity or buffer. It shall be freely accessible to all residents
of a development, where required by this chapter. Open space shall not be
occupied by buildings or structures, roads, parking or road right-of-way; nor
shall it include the yards or lots of residential dwelling units required to
meet minimum lot area or parking area requirements.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure adequate open
space for high density residential development; to integrate recreation,
landscaping, greenery and/or natural areas into the projects; to promote the
health and safety of residents of the projects; and to compensate for the loss
of
open space inherent in single-family residential projects.
      (3)   Where required.
         (a)   The following uses/projects consisting of nine or more units
shall provide open space and/or landscaping in the amounts prescribed:
            1.   Cluster developments, 15%.
            2.   Townhouse projects, 15%.
            3.   Mobile home parks, 15%.
            4.   Multi-family projects, 20%.
         (b)   Landscaped open areas provided to meet the requirements of
division (B) above may be applied toward meeting the above requirements if held
in common ownership.
         (c)   No new development, building or structure in connection with the
above shall hereinafter be erected or used unless common open space is provided
in accord with the provisions of this section.
         (d)   No existing development, building or structure in connection
with the above shall be expanded or enlarged unless the minimum common open
space required by the provisions of this section are provided to the extent of
the alteration or expansion.
      (4)   Common open space plan. Proposed uses/projects set forth in
division (C)(3) above shall submit an open space or landscaping plan as part of
the application for a building permit. The plan shall:
         (a)   Designate areas shall be reserved as open space. The specific
design of open space shall be sensitive to the physical and design
characteristics of the site.
         (b)   Designate the type of open space which will be provided, and
indicate the location of plant materials, decorative features, recreational
facilities, and the like.
         (c)   Specify the manner in which common open space shall be
perpetuated, maintained and administered.
      (5)   Types of common open space; required maintenance. The types of
common open space which may be provided to satisfy the requirements of this
chapter together with the maintenance required for each are as follows:
         (a)   Natural areas are areas of undisturbed vegetation or areas
replanted with vegetation after construction. Woodlands and wetlands are
specific types of natural areas. Maintenance is limited to removal of litter,
dead trees, plant materials and brush. Natural water courses are to be
maintained as free-flowing and devoid of debris. Stream channels shall be
maintained so as not to alter floodplain
levels.
         (b)   Recreation areas are designed for specific active recreational
uses such as tot lots, tennis courts, swimming pools, ballfields and similar
uses. Recreational areas shall be accessible to all residents of the
development. Maintenance is limited to ensuring that there exists no hazards,
nuisances or unhealthy conditions.
         (c)   Greenways are linear green belts linking residential areas with
other open space areas. These greenways may contain bicycle paths, footpaths,
and bridle paths. Connecting greenways between residences and recreational
areas are encouraged. Maintenance is limited to a minimum of removal and
avoidance of hazards, nuisances or unhealthy conditions.
         (d)   Landscaped areas, lawns and required buffer areas including
creative landscaped areas, with gravel and tile, so long as the tile does not
occupy more than 2% of the required open space. Lawns, with or without trees
and shrubs shall be watered regularly to ensure survival, and mowed regularly,
to ensure neatness. Landscaped areas shall be trimmed, cleaned and weeded
regularly.
      (6)   Preservation of open space.
         (a)   Land designated as common open space may not be separately sold,
subdivided or developed open space areas shall be maintained so that their use
and enjoyment as open space are not diminished or destroyed. Open space areas
may be owned, preserved and maintained as required by this section by any of
the following mechanisms or combinations thereof:
            1.   Dedication of and acceptance by the city;
            2.   Common ownership of the open space by a homeowner’s
association which assumes full responsibility for its maintenance; or
            3.   Deed restricted, private ownership which shall prevent
development and/or subsequent subdivision of the open space land and provide
the maintenance.
         (b)   In the event that any private owner of open space fails to
maintain same, the city may in accordance with the open space plan and
following reasonable notice, demand that deficiency of maintenance be
corrected, and enter the open space to maintain same.
         (c)   The cost of the maintenance shall be charged to those persons
having the primary responsibility for maintenance of the open space.
   (D)   Tree protection.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prevent the clear
cutting of building sites, a practice which destroys the balance of nature,
leads to sedimentation and erosion, contributes to air and water pollution and
unnecessarily robs the community of valuable natural resources.
      (2)   Existing trees.
         (a)   Because any healthy tree greater than 12 inches DBH (Diameter
Breast High) is a valuable natural resource, by virtue of its age and size and
its contribution to the environment, all trees meeting this measurement shall
be protected to the extent practical and feasible.
         (b)   All existing trees measuring 12 inches DBH or more, not in the
proposed buildable area or driveway, shall be flagged and shown on the required
plat or site plan for a building permit.
         (c)   No more than 25% of the trees shall be felled and removed,
except by order of the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals owing to unique
circumstances surrounding the development of the property.
         (d)   Where, due to unusual topographic conditions or circumstances
peculiar to a given site, more than 25% of the trees to be preserved must be
felled, replacement trees measuring not less than two inches DBH shall be
planted in like number. To the extent possible, the trees shall be integrated
into the required landscaping.
      (3)   Development precautions.
         (a)   After the necessary permit approvals have been granted, and
before any site work has begun, the developer shall cause protected trees to be
marked with surveyor’s flagging.
         (b)   During development, a minimum protective zone, marked by
barriers, shall be established (erected) at the “drip line” and maintained
around all trees to be retained as required by this section.
         (c)   There shall be no construction, paving, grading or vehicles, or
storage of materials within this protected zone.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
Cross-reference:
   Landscaping and Screening, see Appendix F
§ 152.097 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Impervious surfaces are those that do not absorb water.
      (2)   All buildings, parking areas, driveways, roads, sidewalks, and any
areas in concrete and asphalt are considered impervious surfaces within this
definition. The impervious surface ratio is a measure of the intensity of land
use. It is determined by dividing the total area of all impervious surfaces
within the site by the total site area.
   (B)   The purpose of impervious surface standards is to reduce the impact of
storm water runoff created by development. By requiring on-site permeable
areas, lot-line-to-lot-line “black topping” is declared by this chapter to be
an unacceptable practice.
   (C)   The following uses shall be limited in the amount of on-site
impervious surface areas to the prescribed rations:
      (1)   Single-family/two-family:
         (a)   A-1 district, 50%.
         (b)   All other districts, 60%.
      (2)   Multi-family and other, 65%.
      (3)   Institutional, 65%.
      (4)   Commercial/business:
         (a)   C-1 district, 100%.
         (b)   All other districts, 80%.
      (5)   Industrial/warehousing/storage, 75%.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.098 BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   Bed and breakfast inns, where permitted by this chapter, shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The uses shall be allowed only in older residential structures that
are recognized as architecturally, historically or culturally significant and
that, through renovation and use as a bed and breakfast inn, will contribute
significantly to the ambience, character or economic revitalization of the
neighborhood.
   (B)   The architectural integrity and arrangement of existing interior
spaces must be maintained, except as may be required to meet health, safety and
sanitation requirements.
   (C)   Minimal outward modification of the structure or grounds may be made
only if the changes are compatible with the character of the area or
neighborhood.
   (D)   The proposed uses shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
review and approval prior to the issuance of a permit for same.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.099 TOWNHOUSES.
   Due to the unique design features of townhouses, the dimensional
requirements of the districts in which they may be located are hereby waived
and substituted by the following design requirements:
   (A)   Townhouse projects shall have a minimum of 0.5 acre.
   (B)   No more than eight and no fewer than three townhouses may be joined
together, with approximately the same (but staggered) front line.
   (C)   Side yard setbacks at the end unit shall be as required for the
district in which the project is to be located, with not less than 20 feet
setback between buildings in the project area.
   (D)   Rear yard setbacks shall be 20 feet.
   (E)   Minimum lot width shall be 18 feet.
   (F)   Sidewalks not less than three feet in width shall be provided along
the front property line of each project.
   (G)   Impervious surface area shall not exceed 65% of a townhouse lot, on
average, except where a minimum of 20% of the project area is in common open
space. In such instances, impervious surface areas may increase to 85% of a
townhouse lot, on average.
   (H)   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed 35 feet.
   (I)   Front yard setbacks shall be 20 feet, but may be waived or modified by
the Planning Commission due to the unique style of the housing.
   (J)   Rear yards shall be enclosed by a six-foot wall or fence, unless used
for parking, and may include one accessory building no greater than 1,000
square feet in GFA.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.100 PATIO AND ZERO LOT LINE HOUSING PROJECTS.
   Due to the unique design features of patio and zero lot line housing, the
dimensional requirements of the districts in which they may be located are
hereby waived and substituted by the following design requirements:
   (A)   Projects shall have a minimum of 1.5 acres.
   (B)   Minimum lot area per unit shall be 3,000 square feet, on average.
   (C)   Minimum lot width shall be 40 feet.
   (D)   Maximum height of buildings shall not exceed 35 feet.
   (E)   Where a unit is to be constructed at or on the property line, a five-
foot maintenance easement shall be provided on the adjoining lot.
   (F)   A minimum patio or yard area of 700 square feet shall be provided on
each lot, not more than 15% of which shall be impervious to water.
   (G)   At least one side yard extending not less than five feet from the
property line shall be provided. Where a second side yard is provided, though
not required, it too shall have a minimum width of five feet.
   (H)   The side yard of the exterior units shall be ten feet, from the
“outside” property line.
   (I)   Rear yard setbacks shall be not less than ten feet.
   (J)   Front yard setbacks shall be 25 feet, but may be waived or modified by
the Planning Commission due to the unique style of the housing.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.101 HORSE STABLES.
   Owing to environmental consequences of keeping horses in residential areas,
and elsewhere in the community, horse stables, pens and areas for keeping
horses shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   The lot or parcel shall have a minimum width of 200 feet and a minimum
area of three acres, plus one additional acre for each horse or horse stall
over three.
   (B)   The lot must be designed and maintained to drain so as to prevent
ponding and propagation of insects.
   (C)   The lot must be designed and maintained so as to prevent the pollution
by drainage of adjacent streams and other water bodies.
   (D)   The premises must be maintained in a sanitary condition through the
proper use of lime and pesticides.
   (E)   The premises must be maintained by keeping manure piles in covered
containers at least 50 feet from any dwelling or any pool, patio or other
recreational structure on an adjoining lot and at least 25 feet from any
property line.
   (F)   All manure must be removed at least twice weekly so as to prevent
propagation of flies and creation of odors.
   (G)   All grain on the lot must be stored in rodent proof containers.
   (H)   All feed spillage on the lot must be promptly removed so as to prevent
attraction of flies, rodents and birds and creation of odors.
   (I)   The exercise and training areas on the lot must be dampened so as to
prevent dust.
   (J)   Prompt veterinary care and services must be provided for sick horses
and sick horses shall be removed promptly when deemed necessary by a licensed
veterinarian.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.115 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the duly appointed Building Inspector, and he
is hereby given the authority to administer and enforce all provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   If the Building Inspector shall find that any one of the provisions of
this chapter is being violated, he shall notify in writing the person
responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuances of
illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of illegal buildings or
structures or of illegal additions, alteration or structural changes;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.116 BUILDING AND SIGN PERMITS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless elsewhere exempted by this chapter, no building, sign or
other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or structurally altered
without a permit therefor, issued by the Building Inspector.
      (2)    No building or sign permit shall be issued by the Building
Inspector except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, unless he
receives a written order from the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals in the
form of an administrative review, special exception or variance as provided by
this chapter.
      (3)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Inspector shall review sign permits for compliance with the provisions of the
Building Code in effect in the city. Unlawful signs shall be made to comply
with all regulations or shall be removed in accordance with the appropriate
provisions set forth in the Building Code.
      (4)   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within
six months from the date of issuance thereof, the permit shall expire. It shall
be canceled by the Building Inspector and written notice thereof shall be given
to the persons affected.
   (B)   (1)   Application requirements for a building permit.
         (a)   Each application for a permit for a building or structure other
than a sign shall be accompanied by two sets of the following or as much
thereof as the Building Official shall find necessary to determine whether the
proposed building or use will be in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
         (b)   A plat and/or site plan with date and scale, showing the actual
shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the size, height and location
on the lot of existing and proposed buildings and structures; the existing and
intended use of each building; the number of families or housekeeping units the
building is designed to accommodate; buffer areas; flood and wetland areas;
proposed parking; building elevations and other information with regard to the
lot and contiguous land uses as required to determine compliance with and
provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Application requirements for a sign permit. Each application to
erect a sign, where a sign permit is required by this chapter, shall be
accompanied by the following information:
         (a)   Common signage plan, where applicable, in accord with the
requirements of §
152.048;
         (b)   Identification of ownership and/or leaseholder of property on
which the sign is to be erected, including street address;
         (c)   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
         (d)   Site plan sketch with dimensions (non-professionally drafted
plan is acceptable) showing the location of the sign with respect to the
property and right-of-way lines, building and setback lines, and buildings,
parking areas, existing free-standing signs and buffer areas;
         (e)   Correct size, shape, configuration, face area, height, nature,
number and type of sign to be erected;
         (f)   The value of the sign and sign structure; and
         (g)   The Building Official may waive any of the informational
requirements listed above deemed unnecessary to process an application.
      (3)   Fees. Fees to cover the administrative cost of issuing permits and
certificates shall accompany all requests for the permits and certificates, and
for processing applications for variance and amendments. The amount of the fees
shall be determined by the Mayor and City Council, a schedule of which shall be
available at City Hall.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 152.117 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use of occupancy of any
building or premises, or both, or parts thereof hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued
therefor by the Building Inspector stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
§ 152.118 COMPLAINTS; APPEALS.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. The complaint stating fully
the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Building Inspector. He
shall record properly the complaint, immediately investigate and take action
thereon as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   It is the intention of this chapter that all questions arising in
connection with the enforcement of the chapter shall be presented first to the
Building Inspector and that the question shall be presented to the Board of
Zoning and Housing Appeals only on appeal from the decisions of the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 00-08-01, passed 8-15-00; Am. Ord. 05-
02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 152.119 BOARD OF ZONING AND HOUSING APPEALS.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals is hereby established. The Board
shall consist of seven members, who shall be citizens of the city and shall be
appointed by the City Council for overlapping terms of three years. Initial
appointment shall be as follows: two members for a term of three years, three
members for a term of two years and two members for a term of one year. Any
vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same
manner as the initial appointment. Members shall serve without pay, but may be
reimbursed for any expenses incurred while representing the Board.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals shall elect a chairman and a
vice-chairman from its members who shall serve for one year or until reelected
or until their successors are elected. The Board shall appoint a secretary, who
shall be a city staff member. The Board shall adopt rules and by-laws in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the S.C. Code Title 6,
Chapter 7. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and
at other times as the Board may determine. All meetings of the Board shall be
open to the public.
   (C)   The concurring vote of a majority of members shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Building
Inspector or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter or to affect any variation of this chapter.
The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating the
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be maintained by the Secretary and shall be a public record.
On all appeals, applications and other matters brought before the Board of
Zoning and Housing Appeals, the Board shall inform in writing all the parties
involved of its decisions and the reasons therefor, via certified mail.
   (D)   (1)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer, department, board or bureau of the municipality or county. The
appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the
Board, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the
Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals notice of appeal specifying the ground
thereof. The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
or by a court of record on application, on notice to the officer from whom the
appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
      (3)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal
or other matter referred to it, and give public notice thereof as well as due
notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable
time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney.
   (E)   (1)   The Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals shall have the following
powers and duties:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination by the Building Inspector in
the enforcement of this act.
         (b)   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases, a variance from the
terms of the chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the
chapter will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that
the spirit of the chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured,
and substantial justice done. The variance may be granted in the individual
case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Board of Zoning and Housing
Appeals that:
            1.   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining
to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or
topography;
            2.   The application of the chapter on the particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship;
            3.   Conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved; and
            4.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to
the public good or impair the purpose and intent of the chapter or the
comprehensive plan, provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a
use of land or building or structure that is prohibited in a given district.
      (2)   In exercising the above powers, the Board of Zoning and Housing
Appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of this act, reverse or affirm,
wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decision or
determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. The
Board, in the execution of the duties for which appointed, may subpoena
witnesses and in case of contempt may certify such fact to the circuit court
having jurisdiction.
   (F)   Any person who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the
Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals may appeal from any decision of the Board
to the circuit court in and for the County of Marlboro with the clerk of the
court a petition in writing setting forth plainly, fully and distinctly wherein
the decision is contrary to law. The appeal shall be filed within 30 days after
the decision of the Board is rendered.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 00-08-01, passed 8-15-00; Am. Ord. 05-
02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 152.120 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization.
      (1)   This chapter, including the zoning map, may be amended from time to
time by the City Council, but no amendment shall become effective unless it
shall have been proposed by or shall have first been submitted to the Planning
Commission for review and recommendation. The Planning Commission shall have 30
days within which to submit its report. If the Commission fails to submit a
report within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed, to have approved the
request amendment. In no instance shall a property owner or owners initiate
action for a zoning amendment affecting the same parcel of property, or any
part thereof, more often than once every 12 months.
      (2)   Any communication purporting to be an application for a change
shall be regarded as mere notice to seek relief until it is made in the form
required. Upon receipt of any communication, the interested parties shall be
supplied with the proper form for presenting his application by the Building
Inspector.
   (B)   Initiation. Proposed changes or amendments to the chapter may be
initiated by City Council, Planning Commission, Board of Zoning and Housing
Appeals, or by application of any interested property owner or resident of the
city.
   (C)   Public hearing. Before enacting an amendment to this chapter, the City
Council shall hold a public hearing thereon, at least 15 days notice of the
time and place of which shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94; Am. Ord. 05-02-03, passed 2-15-05)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined, as determined by the court
for each offense. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
APPENDIX A: SIGN REGULATIONS
Sign Type A-1 A-2 A-3 A-4 INS*** ROI-1 C-1 C-2 U-1 NH-1 W-1
Sign Type      A-1 A-2 A-3 A-4 INS*** ROI-1 C-1 C-2 U-1 NH-1 W-1
Permanent:
Freestanding:
Principal      A*  A*  A*  P   P      P     P   P   P   P    P
Incidental     N   A   A   A   A      A     A   A   A   A    A
Building:
Canopy         N   N   N   A   N      P     P   P   P   N    N
Identification A   A   A   A   A      A     A   A   A   N    N
Incidental     N   A   A   A   A      A     A   A   A   N    N
Marquee        N   N   N   N   N      N     P   P   P   N    N
Projecting     N   N   N   N   N      N     P   P   P   N    N
Roof           N   N   N   N   N      N     P   P   P   N    N
Roof, integral N   N   N   N   N      N     P   P   P   N    N
Wall           N   N   N   N   A      P     P   P   P   N    N
Window         N   N   N   A   N      A     A   A   A   N    N
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
Sign Type A-1 A-2 A-3 A-4 INS*** ROI-1 C-1 C-2 U-1 NH-1 W-1
Sign Type              A-1 A-2 A-3 A-4 INS*** ROI-1 C-1 C-2 U-1 NH-1 W-1
Temporary**:
Banner                 N   N   N   N   N      N     P   P   P   N    N
Posters                A   A   A   A   A      A     A   A   A   A    A
Portable               N   N   N   N   N      N     P   N   N   N    N
Inflatable             N   N   N   N   N      N     P   N   N   N    N
Sign Characteristics:
Animated               N   N   N   N   N      N     P   P   P   N    N
Changeable copy        N   N   N   N   A      A     A   A   A   N    A
Illumination, indirect A   A   A   A   A      A     A   A   A   A    A
Illumination, internal A   A   A   A   A      A     A   A   A   A    A
Illumination, exposed  N   N   N   N   N      N     N   N   N   N    N
bulb or neon
NOTES TO TABLE:
  * - Signs identifying or announcing land subdivisions or multi-family
housing projects shall be allowed by permit only, in accord with the
requirements of Appendix B and §
152.048.
 ** - See §
152.050.
*** - This column does not represent a zoning district. It applies to
institutional and other non-residential uses permitted in residential
zoning districts, such as, churches, schools, parks, and the like.
A - The sign is allowed without prior permit approval in the zoning
districts.
P - The sign is allowed only with prior permit approval in the zoning
districts. Special conditions may apply in some cases.
N - A sign is not allowed in the zoning districts represented by that
column under any circumstances.
(Am. Ord. 22-03-01, passed 3-16-22)
APPENDIX B: PERMITTED SIGNS; NUMBERS AND LOCATIONS
Sign Type A-1* A-2* A-3* A-4* INS** ROI-1 C-1 C-2 U-1 MH-1 W-1
Sign Type A-1* A-2* A-3* A-4* INS** ROI-1 C-1 C-2    U-1        MH-1 W-1
Freestanding Signs:
Number,   1    1    1    1    1     1     1   1      N/A        1    1
per lot
Number,
per       N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A   N/A   N/A 1:300  1:300      N/A  1:100 0
frontage
feet
                                              1 sq.  1 sq. ft./
                                              ft./ 1 2 ft.
Max. area 6    6    6    10   20    32    40  ft.    street     32   20
                                              street front
                                              front
Min.      10   10   10   10   10    5     5   5      5          10   10
setback
Max.      6    6    6    12   12    12    12  24     24         12   12
height
Building Signs:
Number    1    1    1    1    1     1     N/A N/A    N/A        1    1
Max. area 2    4    4    10   10    10    N/A N/A    N/A        4    4
Max. wall N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A   N/A   25% 25%    25%        N/A  N/A
area
NOTES TO TABLE:
 * - Subdivision and/or multi-family project identification signs, not to
exceed 20 square feet in area are permitted in these districts; provided
they meet the requirements for a common signage plan, in accord with §
152.048.
** - This column does not represent a zoning district. It applies to
institutional and other non-residential uses permitted under the zoning
ordinance in residential zoning districts, such as churches, schools, parks,
and the like.
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
APPENDIX C: SIGN TYPES; ILLUSTRATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1390.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1392.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1394.png]
 
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
APPENDIX D: YARD AND SETBACK DIAGRAM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1398.png]
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
APPENDIX E: BUFFER AREA DIAGRAMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1436.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1438.png]
 
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
APPENDIX F: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING DIAGRAMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1440.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1442.png]
 
   Landscaped areas adjacent to parking spaces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1226316fff68215e29ecd14d1b90718df8d5cdd7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1444.png]
 
(Ord. 94-06-01, passed 6-14-94)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of plan
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   The Comprehensive Plan prepared by RS3 Planning Collaborative, LLC, for the
city, dated May 21, 2019, be and is hereby adopted, and by reference
incorporated and made a part hereof with a copy attached to Ord. 019-05-001,
for use as a guide to the orderly development and zoning of the city.
(Ord. 019-05-001, passed 5-21-19)
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
88-06-0    12-22-88    Annexing a parcel of land situated between U.S. Highway
                       15-401 Bypass and Atkins Street
89-03-0    5-5-89      Annexing a parcel of land situated between U.S. Highway
                       15-401 and S.C. Highway 9-38 Bypass
89-05-0    6-13-89     Annexing a parcel of land situated between U.S. Highway
                       15-401 Bypass and Parsonage Street Extension
89-06-0    8-8-89      Annexing an eight-lot parcel of land fronting on
                       Pinewood Street
89-12-0    12-12-89    Annexing a parcel of land constituting a roadbed of the
                       Pee Dee River Railroad
90-01-1    1-9-90      Annexing a parcel of land known as the Marlboro County
                       High School
90-08-1    8-14-90     Annexing a parcel of land situated between U.S. Highway
                       15-401 Bypass and Parsonage Street Extension
91-03-1    3-12-91     Annexing a parcel of land on the southern side of U.S.
                       Highway 15-401 Bypass and south of the city limits
91-05-01   5-21-91     Annexing a parcel of land on the southern side of U.S.
                       Highway 15-401 Bypass and south of the city limits
                       Annexing a parcel of land situated in the southwest
94-04-03   4-12-94     corner of the intersection of S.C. Highway 9 and Edward
                       Cottingham Boulevard
97-03-01   3-11-97     Annexing a parcel of land on the south side of S.C.
                       Highway 9
97-07-01   7-8-97      Annexing three lots on the east side of Memory Lane
98-05-01   5-19-98     Annexing a 27.8-acre parcel of land situated between
                       Cheraw Street and S.C. Highway 38 Bypass
98-11-01   11-17-98    Annexing three lots on the south side of Colonial Drive
99-03-01   3-16-99     Annexing a parcel of land on the south side of Fleet
                       Street
99-03-02   3-16-99     Annexing a 4.13-acre parcel of land on the south side of
                       Cheraw Street
99-04-02   4-20-99     Annexing a two-lot parcel of land on the north side of
                       Fairview Lane
99-10-01   10-19-99    Annexing 485 15-401 Bypass West
99-10-02   10-19-99    Annexing 702 King Street
99-10-03   10-19-99    Annexing 431 Union Street
99-10-04   10-19-99    Annexing 437 Union Street
99-11-01   11-16-99    Annexing 205 Memory Lane
99-12-01   12-21-99    Annexing 242 Ag Street
99-12-02   12-21-99    Annexing 109 Glen Street
99-12-03   12-21-99    Annexing 460 Highway 9 West
99-12-04   12-21-99    Annexing 1035 Cheraw Highway
00-02-01   2-2-00      Annexing 703 King Street
02-05-01   5-21-02     Annexing 304 North Kinney Circle
02-05-02   5-21-02     Annexing 1502 Holly Street
03-01-01   1-21-03     Annexing 2012 West Main Street
03-01-02   1-21-03     Annexing 202 Railroad Avenue
03-04-02   4-22-03     Annexing 247 15-401 Bypass East
03-04-03   4-22-03     Annexing 219 Railroad Avenue
03-04-04   4-22-03     Annexing 253 Throop Street
03-04-05   4-22-03     Annexing 202, 208, 214 and 220 Lombardy Street
03-05-01   5-20-03     Annexing 204 Railroad Avenue
03-07-02   7-15-03     Annexing 725 South Parsonage Street
03-10-01   10-21-03    Annexing 217 Railroad Avenue
04-02-04   2-10-04     Annexing 178, 192 and 206 Highway 15-401
04-02-05   2-10-04     Annexing 570 Highway 15-401 West
04-04-02   4-20-04     Annexing 309 Johnakin Drive
04-04-03   4-20-04     Annexing 311 Johnakin Drive
04-08-01   8-17-04     Annexing 1028 Cheraw Street
                       Annexing 100, 102, 104, 106, 108, 110 and 112 Lombardy
05-02-02   2-15-05     Drive, also 1402, 1404, 1406, 1408 and 1410 White Oak
                       Terrace
05-03-01   3-22-05     Annexing 206 Maple Street
05-03-02   3-22-05     Annexing 200 Henry Street
05-03-03   3-22-05     Annexing 198 and 200 Ardross Street
05-05-01   5-17-05     Annexing 108 Ellison Street
06-04-01   4-18-06     Annexing 438 and 461 Union Street
06-04-02   4-18-06     Annexing 116 Atkins Street
06-04-03   4-18-06     Annexing 210 Lombardy Drive
06-04-04   4-18-06     Annexing 212 Lombardy Drive
06-05-01   5-16-06     Annexing 1140 Cheraw Street
06-09-01   9-26-06     Annexing 216 and 218 Lombardy Drive
07-10-01   10-21-07    Annexing 310 Johnakin Drive
07-10-02   10-21-07    Annexing 107, 109, and 113 15-401 By-Pass East
08-04-02   4-15-08     Annexing 203 Atkins Street
09-01-01   1-20-09     Annexing 212 Beauty Spot Road
10-09-01   9-28-10     Annexing 460 North Cook Street
11-06-01   6- -11      Annexing 336 Highway 9 West
11-06-02   6- -11      Annexing 308 North Kinney Circle
11-06-03   6- -11      Annexing 1007 Cheraw Street
12-06-01   6-19-12     Annexing 110 Ellison Street
12-06-02   6-19-12     Annexing 509 Myrtle Street
13-04-001  4-16-13     Annexing 328 Highway 98 West
13-10-002  10-15-13    Annexing 335 Cottingham Blvd South
14-11-001  11-18-14    Annexing 100 Fleet Street
14-11-002  11-18-14    Annexing 580 Craig Circle
14-11-003  11-18-14    Annexing 574 Craig Circle
15-06-001  6-16-15     Annexing 239 Maple Street
15-06-002  6-16-15     Annexing 220 Maple Street
15-06-003  6-16-15     Annexing 560 Craig Circle
15-06-004  6-16-15     Annexing 565 Craig Circle
15-06-005  6-16-15     Annexing 439 North Cook Street
15-06-006  6-16-15     Annexing 1000 Cheraw Street
015-07-001 7-21-15     Annexing 562 Craig Circle
015-07-002 7-21-15     Annexing 553 Craig Circle
015-07-003 7-21-15     Annexing 548 Terrace Drive
015-07-004 7-21-15     Annexing 551 Terrace Drive
015-07-005 7-21-15     Annexing 221 Airport Road
015-07-006 7-21-15     Annexing 227 Airport Road
015-07-007 7-21-15     Annexing 231 Airport Road
015-07-008 7-21-15     Annexing 237 Airport Road
016-02-001 2-16-16     Annexing 549 Craig Circle
016-02-002 2-16-16     Annexing 564 Craig Circle
17-04-003  5-16-17     Annexing 764 Craig Circle
17-04-004  5-16-17     Annexing 771 Craig Circle
17-04-005  5-16-17     Annexing 777 Craig Circle
17-05-002  5-16-17     Annexing 444 Highway 15-401 Bypass West
17-05-002  5-16-17     Annexing 446 Highway 15-401 Bypass West
019-01-001 1-15-19     Annexing 556 Craig Circle
019-01-002 1-15-19     Annexing 765 Craig Circle
019-01-003 1-15-19     Annexing 565 Terrace Drive
019-01-004 1-15-19     Annexing 569 Terrace Drive
019-01-005 1-15-19     Annexing 577 Terrace Drive
019-01-006 1-15-19     Annexing 581 Terrace Drive
019-01-007 1-15-19     Annexing 589 Terrace Drive
019-01-008 1-15-19     Annexing 593 Terrace Drive
019-01-009 1-15-19     Annexing 599 Terrace Drive
019-01-010 1-15-19     Annexing 735 Craig Circle
019-01-011 1-15-19     Annexing 741 Craig Circle
019-01-012 1-15-19     Annexing 749 Craig Circle
019-01-013 1-15-19     Annexing 753 Craig Circle
019-01-014 1-15-19     Annexing 756 Craig Circle
019-01-015 1-15-19     Annexing 750 Craig Circle
019-01-016 1-15-19     Annexing 746 Craig Circle
019-01-017 1-15-19     Annexing 738 Craig Circle
019-01-018 1-15-19     Annexing 732 Craig Circle
019-02-002 2-19-19     Annexing 430 Highway 15-401 Bypass West
019-06-01  6-18-19     Annexing 254 Highway 15-401 Bypass East
020-04-003 4-21-20     Annexing 907 Ratcliff Street
20-04-006  4-21-20     Annexing 561 Craig Circle
20-05-01   5-19-20     Annexing 556 Terrace Drive
20-05-001  5-19-20     Annexing 561 Terrace Drive
21-10-01   10-19-21    Annexing 108 Lyall Street
01-22-01   1-18-22     Annexing 117 Highway 15-401 Bypass East
22-10-03   10-18-22    Annexing 760 Craig Circle
22-10-04   10-18-22    Annexing 731 Craig Circle
                      
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
90-09-1  9-11-90     Granting a 15-year cable television franchise to Fender
                     and Latham, Inc.
91-60-01 7-9-91      Granting a 15-year cable television franchise to TCI of
                     South Carolina Inc.
91-10-01 10-8-91     Granting a ten-year electricity franchise to Marlboro
                     Electric Cooperative, Inc.
                     Granting the transfer of a cable television franchise from
92-09-02 9-28-92     TCI of South Carolina Inc., to Intermedia Partners of
                     Carolina, L.P.
93-11-01 11-2-93     Granting the surrender of a cable television franchise of
                     Fender and Latham, Inc.
                     Granting the transfer of a cable television franchise from
98-01-01 1-20-98     Intermedia Partners of Carolina, L.P., to Northland Cable
                     Properties of Six Limited Partnership, DBA Northland Cable
                     Television
                    
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
91-07-01  7-3-91      Authorizing the execution of a lease- purchase agreement
                      for the acquisition of certain equipment
92-07-01  7-24-92     Authorizing the execution of a lease- purchase agreement
                      for the acquisition of certain equipment
93-10-02  10-22-93    Releasing a restrictive covenant for the conveyance of
                      property
94-01-02  1-11-94     Authorizing the execution of a lease- purchase agreement
                      for the acquisition of certain equipment
94-05-01  5-24-94     Authorizing the lease and sale of the IGA lot and
                      building
00-03-02  3-28-2000   Authorizing the transfer of title to 470 Beauty Spot Road
                      to the Pee Dee Regional Development Corporation
019-06-02 6-18-19     Conveyance of property located at 243 East Main Street to
                      Carolina Bank
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed to Brian Scott for
20-03-01  3-17-20     the purpose of generating tax revenue within the city
                      limits
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed to Jack Herndon for
20-03-02  3-17-20     the purpose of generating tax revenue within the city
                      limits
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed to Nora Jenkins for
20-10-01  10-21-20    the purpose of generating tax revenue within the city
                      limits
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed to George Bullard for
20-10-02  10-21-20    the purpose of generating tax revenue within the city
                      limits
                      Authorizing the execution of a deed to Marquita McLain,
20-10-03  10-21-20    Donna Ridges, and Bianca Ridges for the purpose of
                      generating tax revenue within the city limits
                     
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
89-04-0   6-13-89     Changing the Firestone Residential Village from an A-
                      4 district to an A-2 district
92-03-01  3-17-92     Changing eight acres of land from an A-1 district to an
                      A-3 district
92-09-01  9-28-92     Changing two lots of land from a C-2 district to an A-
                      2 district
98-05-02  5-19-98     Changing four lots fronting on Jennings Street from A-
                      4 and ROI-1 districts to a C-2 district
98-09-01  9-15-98     Changing 3.069 acres of land from an A-1 district to an
                      A-3 district
13-10-001 10-15-13    Changing 1209 West Main Street from an A-1 district to a
                      C-2 district
20-05-02  5-19-20     Changing 211 Parsonage Street from an A-2 district to a
                      U-1 district
22-04-01  4-4-22      Changing 117 First Avenue from an A-4 district to a C-
                      2 district
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to 1988 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Section Code Section
S.C. Code Section                Code Section
4-7-30                           111.02
Title 5                          112.02
5-5-10(b)                        30.01
                                 10.99,
                                 30.40,
                                 70.04,
5-7-30                           112.02,
                                 131.12,
                                 132.04,
                                 132.08
5-7-80                           94.06
5-7-110                          32.40
5-7-160                          30.06
5-7-170                          30.03
5-7-190                          30.04
5-7-220                          31.04
5-7-230                          31.05
5-7-250(d)                       30.43
5-7-260                          30.42
5-7-270                          30.49
5-7-280                          30.43
5-7-290                          30.43
5-11-10 et seq.                  30.01
5-11-20                          10.03
5-11-40(c)                       33.04,
                                 33.11
5-15-20                          30.02,
                                 30.07
5-15-40                          30.02
5-15-62                          30.07
5-15-100                         30.07
5-15-125                         30.07
5-15-150                         30.05
5-25-330                         150.04
6-1-330                          112.05
6-1-410                          110.11,
                                 110.16
6-1-700 - 6-1-770                112.01
6-1-730                          112.03,
                                 112.08
Title 6, Chapter 7               152.005,
                                 152.119
6-7-830                          152.002
6-29-310 et seq.                 32.20
6-29-360                         32.24
6-29-710                         152.028
6-29-760(A)                      32.25
6-29-870 et seq.                 152.028
6-29-870(C)                      152.028
6-29-870.0                       152.028
6-29-900 et seq.                 152.028
Title 7                          30.07
7-13-190                         30.07
8-13-700 et seq.                 30.26
12-21-2720(A)(1), (2), (3)       Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2720(B)                    Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2728                       Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2746                       Ch. 110, App. A
12-36-2120                       112.04
12-5610 et seq.                  33.16
14-25-45                         70.03
                                 34.05,
14-25-65                         130.99,
                                 132.04
14-25-85                         34.05
                                 131.09,
14-25-90                         131.11,
                                 132.07
14-25-135                        34.15
14-25-135 et seq.                34.15
14-25-145                        34.15
15-43-10                         131.04,
                                 131.05
16-3-610                         134.01
16-3-630                         93.11
16-3-1010                        134.03
16-3-1020                        134.04
16-5-50                          132.04
16-5-120                         132.06
16-5-130                         132.06
16-11-51(B)(3)                   133.02
16-11-520(B)(3)                  133.02
16-11-600                        133.08
16-11-610                        133.08
16-11-620                        133.03
16-11-650                        133.02
16-11-680                        133.02
16-11-700                        51.99
16-13-30                         133.01
16-13-110                        131.13
16-13-180                        133.04
16-13-240                        133.05
16-13-290                        133.06
16-15-90                         131.04,
                                 131.05
16-15-110                        131.04
16-15-130                        131.03
16-15-150                        131.11
16-15-230                        131.11
16-15-305 et seq.                131.11
16-17-420                        131.08
16-17-520                        132.05
16-17-530                        131.09
16-17-570                        132.01
16-19-40                         131.06
16-23-410                        134.02
16-23-460                        132.02
itle 23                          93.37
23-9-310 et seq.                 32.34
23-35-30                         93.35
23-35-40                         93.35
23-35-60                         93.36
23-35-150                        93.35
23-35-170                        93.12
23-43-10                         152.002
30-4-60                          30.26
30-4-70                          30.26
30-4-70(a)(1)                    32.23
30-4-80                          30.20
30-4-90                          30.22
31-15-10                         150.26
31-15-10 et seq.                 150.25
31-15-20                         150.25
31-15-50                         150.29
31-15-60                         150.30
31-15-70                         150.34
31-15-80                         150.32
31-15-90                         150.31
31-15-30(2)                      150.27
31-15-30(3)                      150.28
31-15-30(4)                      150.28
31-15-30(5)                      150.28
31-15-30(6)                      150.28
                                 110.02,
Title 38, Chapter 7              110.11,
                                 110.16,
                                 Ch. 110, App. A
38-7-20                          110.02
                                 110.02,
Title 38, Chapter 45             110.11,
                                 110.16,
                                 Ch. 110, App. A
39-41-260                        93.01
Title 40, Ch. 8                  152.032
44-55-210                        94.07
47-7-110                         91.01
Ch. 56                           71.001
56-1-20                          70.06
56-1-6120                        70.07
56-5-110                         70.02
56-5-760 et seq.                 71.056
56-5-1270                        71.010
                                 71.050,
56-5-1520 et seq.                71.052,
                                 71.053
56-5-1810                        71.025
56-5-1830                        71.025
56-5-1840                        71.025
56-5-1850                        71.025
56-5-1860                        71.025
56-5-1880                        71.025
56-5-1890                        71.025
56-5-1960                        93.11
56-5-2920                        71.035
56-5-3850                        93.03
56-5-6150                        70.03
56-6-2530                        93.11
Title 58, Chapter 20, Article 20 110.02,
                                 110.11
58-9-2200                        110.11,
                                 Ch. 110, App. A
61-2-210                         111.02
61-3-20                          111.01
61-4-120                         111.04
61-4-580                         111.05
61-4-1750                        111.07
61-6-4500                        111.02
61-9-10                          111.01
61-9-90                          111.04
61-9-410                         111.05
61-9-810                         111.07
61-9-820                         111.08
61-13-4220                       111.03
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1988 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1.201             10.01
1.202             10.02
1.203             10.06
1.204             10.05
1.205             10.03
1.206             10.04
1.207             10.99
1.209             10.10
1.210             10.07
1.211             10.08
1.212             10.09
1.213             10.11
1.214             11.01
2.101             30.01
2.102             30.02
2.103             30.02
2.104             30.03
2.105             30.04
2.106             30.05
2.107             30.40
2.108             30.41
2.109             30.42
2.110             30.43
2.111             30.43
2.112             30.45
2.113             30.46
2.114             30.46
2.115             30.47
2.116             30.48
2.117             30.49
2.118             30.50
2.119             30.50
2.120             30.06
2.201             30.20
2.202             30.21
2.203             30.22
2.204             30.23
2.205             30.24
2.206             30.25
2.207             30.25
2.208             30.26
2.209             30.26
2.210             30.26
2.211             30.26
2.212             30.26
2.213             30.26
2.214             30.27
2.215             30.27
2.216             30.27
2.217             30.28
2.218             30.28
2.219             30.28
2.220             30.28
2.401             31.01
2.402             31.02
2.403             31.03
2.501             31.04
2.502             31.04
2.503             31.04
2.601             31.05
2.602             31.05
2.603             31.05
2.701             31.06
2.702             31.06
2.703             31.06
2.704             31.06
2.705             31.06
3.102             91.02
3.103             91.02
3.104             91.03
3.201             91.15
3.202             91.15
3.209             91.18
3.210             91.19
3.211             91.20
3.212             91.25
3.213             91.25
3.214             91.21
3.215             91.22
3.216             91.23
3.217             91.24
3.218             91.24
5.101             150.01
5.102             150.02
5.103             150.03
5.104             150.04
5.105             150.05
5.106             150.06
5.107             150.01
5.109             150.13
5.111             150.13
5.112             150.07
5.113             150.08
5.114             150.12
5.115             150.09
5.116             150.10
5.117             150.02
5.119             150.04
5.120             150.11
5.201             150.25
5.202             150.26
5.203             150.27
5.204             150.28
5.205             150.28
5.206             150.29
5.207             150.30
5.208             150.32
5.209             150.31
5.210             150.34
5.211             150.34
5.212             150.34
5.213             150.34
5.214             150.33
5.215             150.35
5.301             92.01
5.302             92.02
5.303             92.03
5.304             92.04
5.305             92.05
5.306             92.06
5.307             92.07
5.308             92.08
5.310             92.99
7.101             34.01
7.102             34.01
7.103             34.02
7.104             34.02
7.105             34.03
7.106             34.04
7.201             34.15
7.301             34.05
7.302             34.05
8.101             33.01
8.102             33.02
8.103             33.03
8.104             33.04
8.105             33.05
8.106             33.05
8.107             33.05
8.108             33.06
8.109             33.07
8.110             33.08
8.111             33.08
8.112             33.09
8.113             33.10
8.115             33.10
8.116             33.10
8.117             33.11
8.118             33.12
8.119             33.12
8.120             33.12
8.121             33.13
8.122             33.14
8.123             33.15
8.201.1           35.01
8.401             33.25
8.402             33.26
8.403             33.27
8.405             33.27
8.406             33.27
8.407             33.28
8.408             33.29
8.409             33.30
8.410             33.30
8.411             33.31
8.412             33.32
8.413             33.33
8.414             33.34
8.415             33.35
9.105             93.99
9.201             132.01
9.202             93.11
9.203             93.11
9.204             93.11
9.205             93.11
9.206             93.11
9.207             93.11
9.208             93.02
9.209             93.03
9.210             93.04
9.212             93.07
9.213             93.09
9.214             93.10
9.401             32.30
9.402             32.31
9.403             32.32
9.404             32.33
9.501             93.35,
                  93.99
9.502             93.35
9.503             93.35
9.504             93.36
9.505             93.37
10.101            94.01
10.201            94.02
10.202            94.03
10.203            94.03
10.204            94.04
10.205            94.05
10.206            94.08
10.207            94.08
10.208            94.08
10.401            94.06
10.402            94.06
10.403            94.06
10.501            94.07
10.502            94.07
11.101            131.01
13.101            32.40
13.103            32.42
13.105            32.43
13.106            32.43
13.108            32.43
13.110            32.43
13.111            32.43
13.112            32.43
13.113            32.43
13.115            32.44
13.116            32.44
13.117            32.44
14.101.1          111.01
14.101.2          111.02
14.101.3          111.03
14.103.6          111.04
14.103.9          111.05
14.103.10         111.06
14.103.11         111.07
14.103.12         111.08
14.103.13         111.09
14.301            131.03
14.302            131.04
14.303            131.05
14.304            131.05
14.305            131.05
14.306            131.05
14.307            131.06
14.308            131.06
14.309            131.07
14.310            131.08
14.311            131.09
14.312            131.09
14.313            131.10
14.314            131.11
14.315            131.12
14.317            131.13
14.318            131.14
14.402            132.02
14.403            132.02
14.404            132.03
14.405            132.04
14.406            132.05
14.407            132.06
14.408            132.04
14.410            132.02
14.411            132.07
14.414            132.09
14.415            132.10
14.416            132.11
14.501            133.01
14.502            133.02
14.503            133.03
14.504            133.02
14.505            133.04
14.506            133.05
14.507            133.06
14.509            133.08
14.510            133.02
14.511            133.09
14.512            133.10
14.513            133.06
14.514            133.11
14.601            132.05
14.602            132.12
14.603            132.12
14.604            132.13
14.605            132.14
14.606            132.04
14.701            134.01
14.702            134.02
14.703            134.03
14.704            134.04
14.705            134.05
14.706            134.06
14.801            130.02
14.802            130.99
14.803            130.99
14.804            130.01
15.101            95.01
15.102            95.02
15.103            95.02
15.104            95.03
15.105            95.04
15.106            95.04
15.107            95.05
15.108            95.06
15.109            95.06
15.110            95.06
15.111            95.06
15.112            95.06
15.113            95.06
15.201            96.01
15.207            96.02
15.208            96.03
15.209            96.04
15.210            96.05
15.211            96.06
15.212            96.07
15.213            96.08
15.214            96.09
15.215            96.10
15.216            96.99
17.101            50.01
17.201            50.02
17.202            50.03
17.203            50.04
17.204            50.05
17.205            50.05
17.206            50.06
17.207            50.07
17.208            50.08
17.209            50.08
17.210            50.09
17.211            50.09
17.212            50.10
17.404            54.01
17.405            54.01
17.413            54.06
17.601            53.01
17.602            53.02
17.604            53.03
17.605            53.04
17.606            53.05
17.607            53.06
17.611            53.20
17.612            53.20
17.613            53.20
17.614            53.20
17.615            53.20
17.616            53.21
17.617            53.21
17.618            53.21
17.620            53.21
17.621            53.22
17.622            53.22
17.623            53.22
17.625            53.22
17.626            53.23
17.627            53.23
17.628            53.23
17.630            53.23
17.701            55.01
17.702            55.02
17.703            55.03
17.704            55.04
17.705            55.05
17.706            55.05
17.707            55.06
17.708            55.99
17.709            55.07
17.710            55.08
18.101            70.01
18.102            70.02
18.103            70.03
18.104            70.04
18.105            70.06
18.106            70.07
18.108            70.08;
                  Ch. 75, Sched. I
18.109            70.05
18.201            71.001
18.202            71.007
18.203            71.026
18.204            71.027
18.205            71.028
18.206            71.029
18.207            71.030
18.208            71.031
18.209            71.008
18.210            71.008
18.211            71.032
18.212            71.002
18.213            71.026
18.214            71.033
18.215            71.034
18.216            71.025
18.217            71.035
18.218            71.036
18.219            71.003
18.220            71.004
18.221            71.005
18.222            71.006
18.223            71.007
18.224            71.050
18.225            71.052
18.226            71.053
18.227            71.051
18.228            71.054
18.229            71.055
18.230            71.056
18.232            71.037
18.233            71.025
18.234.1          71.070
18.234.2          71.071
18.234.3          71.072
18.234.4          71.072
18.234.5          71.073
18.234.6          71.074
18.234.7          71.075
18.234.8          71.076
18.301            71.090
18.302            71.091
18.303            71.092
18.304            71.093
18.401            72.01,
                  72.08
18.402            72.02
18.403            72.03
18.404            72.04
18.405            72.05
18.406            72.06,
                  72.99
18.407            72.07
18.409            90.03,
                  90.04
18.410            90.01,
                  90.02
18.411            72.09;
                  Ch. 76, Sched. II
18.501            71.025
18.503            71.038,
                  71.039
18.504            71.009
18.505            71.007
18.509            71.010
18.510            71.010
18.511            71.011
18.601            71.105
18.602            71.106
18.603            71.107
18.604            71.108
18.605            71.109
18.701            73.01
18.702            73.01
18.703            73.02
18.704            73.03
18.705            73.04 
18.706            73.05;
                  Ch. 75, Sched. II
18.707            73.06
18.708            73.07
18.709            73.08
18.710            73.08
18.711            73.09
18.712            73.08
18.713            73.10
18.801            74.01
18.802            74.02
18.803            74.02
18.804            74.03
18.805            74.04
18.806            74.05
18.807            74.06
                  
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
--         - -         30.07
8-87       - -         53.22
10-87      - -         53.20,
                       53.21
83-15-0    - -         33.35
--         10-27-81    33.12
86-04-0    7-8-86      54.06
88-06-0    12-22-88    T.S.O. I
89-03-0    5-5-89      T.S.O. I
89-04-0    6-13-89     T.S.O. IV
89-05-0    6-13-89     T.S.O. I
89-06-0    8-8-89      T.S.O. I
89-08-0    10-10-89    54.07
                       151.01 -
                       151.03,
89-09-0    10-10-89    151.15 -
                       151.25,
                       151.35 -
                       151.37
89-10-0    11-14-89    53.07
89-11-0    11-14-89    52.02
89-12-0    12-12-89    T.S.O. I
90-01-1    1-9-90      T.S.O. I
90-06-0    6-19-90     71.035
90-08-1    8-14-90     T.S.O. I
90-09-1    9-11-90     T.S.O. II
91-03-1    3-12-91     T.S.O. I
91-05-01   5-21-91     T.S.O. I
91-07-01   7-3-91      T.S.O. III
91-60-01   7-9-91      T.S.O. II
91-10-01   10-8-91     T.S.O. II
92-03-01   3-17-92     T.S.O. IV
92-07-01   7-24-92     T.S.O. III
92-09-01   9-28-92     T.S.O. IV
92-09-02   9-28-92     T.S.O. II
93-09-01   9-14-93     10.12
93-10-01   10-12-93    10.99,
                       130.99
93-10-02   10-22-93    T.S.O. III
93-11-01   11-2-93     T.S.O. II
94-01-02   1-11-94     T.S.O. III
94-04-03   4-12-94     T.S.O. I
94-05-01   5-24-94     T.S.O. III
                       152.001 -
                       152.007;
                       152.020 -
                       152.030;
                       152.045 -
                       152.053;
                       152.065 -
                       152.070;
                       152.085 -
94-06-01   6-14-94     152.101;
                       152.115 -
                       152.120;
                       152.999;
                       Ch. 152, Appendix A;
                       Ch. 152, Appendix B;
                       Ch. 152, Appendix C;
                       Ch. 152, Appendix D;
                       Ch. 152, Appendix E;
                       Ch. 152, Appendix F
                       51.01 -
94-07-01   7-12-94     51.10,
                       51.99
94-10-01   10-18-94    131.02,
                       131.99
97-03-01   3-11-97     T.S.O. I
97-07-01   7-8-97      T.S.O. I
97-11-01   11-18-97    93.01
98-01-01   1-20-98     T.S.O. II
98-03-01   3-17-98     30.07
98-05-01   5-19-98     T.S.O. I
98-05-02   5-19-98     T.S.O. IV
98-05-03   5-19-98     32.20 -
                       32.25
98-09-01   9-15-98     T.S.O. IV
98-11-01   11-17-98    T.S.O. I
99-03-01   3-16-99     T.S.O. I
99-03-02   3-16-99     T.S.O. I
99-04-02   4-20-99     T.S.O. I
06-01-99   5-15-99     51.06
99-10-01   10-19-99    T.S.O. I
99-10-02   10-19-99    T.S.O. I
99-10-03   10-19-99    T.S.O. I
99-10-04   10-19-99    T.S.O. I
99-11-01   11-16-99    T.S.O. I
99-12-01   12-21-99    T.S.O. I
99-12-02   12-21-99    T.S.O. I
99-12-03   12-21-99    T.S.O. I
99-12-04   12-21-99    T.S.O. I
--         - -         33.25 -
                       33.36
00-02-01   2-2-00      T.S.O. I
00-03-02   3-28-00     T.S.O. III
                       152.002,
                       152.022,
00-08-01   8-15-00     152.028,
                       152.031,
                       152.118,
                       152.119
00-08-02   8-15-00     151.26
00-12-01   12-19-00    33.25 -
                       33.36
02-04-06   4-16-02     152.002,
                       152.031
--         5-21-02     T.S.O. I
--         5-21-02     T.S.O. I
02-06-01   6-18-02     33.32,
                       54.05
--         1-21-03     T.S.O. I
--         1-21-03     T.S.O. I
03-02-01   2-18-03     30.02,
                       30.07
--         4-22-03     T.S.O. I
--         4-22-03     T.S.O. I
--         4-22-03     T.S.O. I
--         4-22-03     T.S.O. I
--         5-20-03     T.S.O. I
03-07-01   --          112.01 -
                       112.10
--         7-15-03     T.S.O. I
--         10-21-03    T.S.O. I
--         2-10-04     T.S.O. I
--         2-10-04     T.S.O. I
--         4-20-04     T.S.O. I
--         4-20-04     T.S.O. I
--         8-17-04     T.S.O. I
                       150.13,
                       150.26,
                       150.33,
                       150.34,
                       152.002,
                       152.004,
05-02-03   2-15-05     152.027,
                       152.028,
                       152.085,
                       152.096,
                       152.116,
                       152.118 -
                       152.120
--         2-15-05     T.S.O. I
--         3-22-05     T.S.O. I
--         3-22-05     T.S.O. I
--         3-22-05     T.S.O. I
--         5-17-05     T.S.O. I
--         - -06       T.S.O. I
--         - -06       T.S.O. I
--         - -06       T.S.O. I
--         - -06       T.S.O. I
--         - -06       T.S.O. I
06-09-01   9-26-06     T.S.O. I
07-10-01   10-21-07    T.S.O. I
07-10-02   10-21-07    T.S.O. I
07-11-01   11-20-07    91.20
08-04-02   4-15-08     T.S.O. I
08-06-01   6-17-08     132.07
08-08-03   8-19-08     50.05
09-01-01   1-20-09     T.S.O. I
09-11-01   11-17-09    150.04;
                       Ch. 150, App.
10-01-01   1-19-10     152.091
10-03-01   3-16-10     96.20 -
                       96.32
10-09-01   9-28-10     T.S.O. I
10-11-002  11-6-10     110.01 -
                       110.20
11-06-01   6- -11      T.S.O. I
11-06-02   6- -11      T.S.O. I
11-06-03   6- -11      T.S.O. I
11-09-01   9-20-11     53.06
12-06-01   6-19-12     T.S.O. I
12-06-02   6-19-12     T.S.O. I
                       30.02,
                       31.04,
                       32.40 -
                       32.44,
                       34.02,
                       34.05,
                       34.15,
                       35.01,
                       50.02,
                       50.04,
                       50.06,
                       Ch. 50 App.,
                       51.99,
                       52.01,
                       53.01,
                       53.05,
--         11-20-12    53.20 -
                       53.23,
                       54.08,
                       72.09,
                       72.99,
                       73.10,
                       91.01,
                       91.24,
                       91.25,
                       93.01,
                       93.06,
                       93.10,
                       93.35,
                       93.37,
                       94.06,
                       150.01,
                       152.002
12-11-01   11-20-12    152.032
12-11-003  11-20-12    152.065
13-04-001  4-16-13     T.S.O. I
13-05-001  5-21-13     Adopting Ordinance
13-10-001  10-15-13    T.S.O. IV
13-10-002  10-15-13    T.S.O. I
13-05-001  5-20-14     152.085
14-09-01   9-16-14     91.20
14-11-001  11-18-14    T.S.O. I
14-11-002  11-18-14    T.S.O. I
14-11-003  11-18-14    T.S.O. I
15-05-001  5-19-15     Ch. 150, Appendix
15-06-001  6-16-15     T.S.O. I
15-06-002  6-16-15     T.S.O. I
15-06-003  6-16-15     T.S.O. I
15-06-004  6-16-15     T.S.O. I
15-06-005  6-16-15     T.S.O. I
15-06-006  6-16-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-001 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-002 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-003 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-004 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-005 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-006 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-007 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
015-07-008 7-21-15     T.S.O. I
          8-18-15     152.028
15-10-001  10-20-15    152.022
16-01-001  1-19-16     51.06
016-02-001 2-16-16     T.S.O. I
016-02-002 2-16-16     T.S.O. I
                       56.01 -
                       56.04,
                       56.15 -
                       56.23,
16-04-001  4-19-16     56.35 -
                       56.48,
                       56.60 -
                       56.70,
                       56.99
                       150.01,
16-06-001  6-21-16     150.06,
                       150.08,
                       150.10
--         1-17-2017   93.35
--         1-17-2017   30.07
17-02-01   2-21-2017   152.025
17-03-001  3-21-2017   Ch. 110, Appendix B
17-04-003  4-18-2017   T.S.O. I
17-04-004  4-18-2017   T.S.O. I
17-04-005  4-18-2017   T.S.O. I
17-05-001  5-16-2017   T.S.O. I
17-05-002  5-16-2017   T.S.O. I
017-06-01  6-20-2017   30.07
17-10-002  10-17-2017  152.028
017-11-01  11-21-2017  150.28
017-11-02  11-21-2017  94.06
019-01-001 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-002 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-003 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-004 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-005 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-006 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-007 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-008 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-009 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-010 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-011 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-012 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-013 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-014 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-015 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-016 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-017 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
019-01-018 1-15-2019   T.S.O. I
                       51.01,
019-01-020 1-15-2019   51.04 -
                       51.06
019-02-001 2-19-2019   T.S.O. I
--         2-19-2019   33.16
019-05-001 5-21-2019   153.01
019-06-01  6-18-2019   T.S.O. I
019-06-02  6-18-2019   T.S.O. III
19-10-01   10-15-2019  51.99
019-11-01  11-19-2019  Adopting Ordinance
20-02-01   2-18-2020   32.34
20-03-01   3-17-2020   T.S.O. III
20-03-02   3-17-2020   T.S.O. III
20-04-002  4-21-2020   51.05
020-04-003 4-21-2020   T.S.O. I
20-04-006  4-21-2020   T.S.O. I
20-05-01   5-19-2020   T.S.O. I
20-05-001  5-19-2020   T.S.O. I
20-05-02   5-19-2020   T.S.O. IV
20-10-01   10-21-2020  T.S.O. III
20-10-02   10-21-2020  T.S.O. III
20-10-03   10-21-2020  T.S.O. III
21-03-01   3-16-2021   95.01,
                       95.02
21-07-01   7-20-2021   132.07
21-07-02   7-20-2021   95.02
21-11-02   11-16-2021  51.07
21-10-01   10-19-2021  T.S.O. I
21-11-03   11-16-2021  110.01 -
                       110.20, Ch. 100, Appendix A, B
01-22-01   1-18-2022   T.S.O. I
22-03-01   3-16-2022   Ch. 152, Appendix A
22-04-01   4-4-2022    T.S.O. IV
22-05-01   5-17-2022   35.02
22-05-02   5-17-2022   93.13
                       91.01,
                       91.04,
                       91.05,
22-10-01   10-18-2022  91.15,
                       91.16,
                       91.21,
                       91.23,
                       91.25
22-10-02   10-18-2022  94.06
22-10-03   10-18-2022  T.S.O. I
22-10-04   10-18-2022  T.S.O. I
                       112.04,
--         5-16-2023   112.06,
                       112.10
--         3-19-2024   Ch. 110, Appendix A,
                       B
                      
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the City
of Bennettsville. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained in
PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2023,
please contact the City Clerk.
 
Jump to:
2022 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
22-10-01 10-18-2022 Amending Title IX, Chapter 91, Sections 91.04, 91.05,
                    91.15, 91.16, 91.2 I. 91.23, 91.23, 91.24, and 91.25
22-10-02 10-18-2022 Amending Title IX, Chapter 94, Section 94.06
22-10-03 10-18-2022 Annexing 760 Craig Circle (27-00-, block 2, parcel 40) to
                    city of Bennettsville
22-10-04 10-18-2022 Annexing 731 Craig Circle (32-18, block 2, parcel 24) to
                    city of Bennettsville, SC
                   
 
2023 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
--       --         Approval to participate in South Carolina Local Revenue
                    Services (LRS)
                    Authorizing and directing intergovernmental agreement
23-05-01 05-16-2023 between Bennettsville and South Carolina LRS for
                    participation in LRS programs and related matters
23-05-16 05-16-2023 Making and entering agreement between Municipal Association
                    of South Carolina and South Carolina Revenue Services
23-08-01 08-01-2023 Adopt redistricting plan for city of Bennettsville to elect
                    one council member from each district
                   
 
 
 
2024 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                    Updating Bennettsville business license ordinance relating
                    to hospitality tax
24-03-19 03-19-2024  
                    03-07-0
                    03-07-01
                   
 
