BISHOPVILLE, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-05, passed 12-13-2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor
Luke D. Giddings
Mayor Pro Tem
Gloria S. Lewis
City Council
Wayne Hancock      Belinda Hay
Shirley Hill       Sammie Ruth
                   
City Attorney      William W. Wheeler, III
City Clerk         Jalesha Davis
City Administrator W. Gregg McCutchen, III
 
CHARTER
Editor’s Note: In 1975, the South Carolina Legislature enacted in to law Act
No. 283 which has become known as “The Home Rule Act.” It revised Article VIII
(Local Government) of the South Carolina Constitution.
The municipalities of this state were required to adopt by ordinance one of
three prescribed forms of local government; namely, the Mayor-Council, the
Council or the Council-Manager.
The form adopted was required to be “... the form most nearly corresponding to
the form in effect in the particular municipality on March 1, 1974, as
determined by the municipal governing body.”
(1976 S.C. Code § 5-5-10)
The City Council adopted the Council form. The Secretary of State issued a
“Certificate of Incorporation,” with the privileges, powers and immunities ,
and subject to the limitations prescribed in Act No. 283 of 1975. The
Certificate is shown on the following page and supersedes all charters formerly
issued.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1   How code designated and cited
   
1-2   Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-3   Severability of parts of code
   
1-4   Catchlines or catchwords of sections
   
1-5   Definitions
   
1-6   Rules of construction
   
1-7   General penalty; continuing violations
   
1-8   Violations of rules, regulations and orders
   
1-9   Liability of corporations and agents for violations
   
1-10   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance
   
1-11   Amendments to code
   
1-12   Altering code
   
1-13   Prosecution where different penalties exist for same offense
   
1-14   Municipal seal
   
1-15   Supplementation of code
   
1-16   Certain ordinances, rights and the like not affected by code
§ 1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and following chapters and sections
constitute and are designated as “The Code of Ordinances, City of Bishopville,
South Carolina” and may be so cited. They may be cited also as the “Bishopville
City Code” or “the city code.”
§ 1-2 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-3 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Council that if
any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall be
declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code
since the same would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code
of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
§ 1-4 CATCHLINES OR CATCHWORDS OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in capital
letters, a different type or italicized are intended as mere catchwords to
indicate or emphasize the contents of such sections, not as any part of the
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of
such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
§ 1-5 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND, OR. The word AND may be read as OR and the word OR may be read as AND
where the sense requires it.
   BOND. When bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   CITY. The City of Bishopville, South Carolina and all areas situated within
the corporate limits.
   CLERK. The Municipal Clerk. However, the title may be used interchangeably
with, “Clerk,” “City Clerk” or “Clerk-Treasurer,” if one person holds both
positions.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done and be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last day
be Sunday or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, as defined in the S.C. Code
§ 5-11-20.
   COUNTY. Lee County, South Carolina.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of
a department to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed
to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize
subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless
the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire and Police Departments, ambulances
and/or emergency vehicles or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the State Department of Transportation (SCDOT) or by the Council.
   GENDER. See §
1-6.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MINOR. A natural person under the age of 18 years, except in ordinances and
code sections relating to the sale, use and possession of alcoholic beverages a
minor is any natural person under the age of 21 years.
   MONTH. A calendar month, unless defined otherwise.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bishopville, South Carolina and all areas situated
within the corporate limits.
   NUMBER. See §
1-6.
   OATH, SWEAR, SWORN. The words OATH, SWEAR and SWORN shall be construed to
include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
the equivalent to words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED and vice versa.
   OWNER. Includes, when applied to a building or land, any part-owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
and any other group as a unit, as well as an individual or individuals.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real property.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The next before and the next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY and REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and the
hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. Territory contiguous to and including a street not
comprising a Business District when the property on such street for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with dwellings or dwellings and
buildings in use with residences.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb and the adjacent property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. A “mark,” when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STREET. Includes streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys,
lanes, bridges and all other public thoroughfares and shall mean the entire
width thereof between abutting property lines. It shall be construed to include
a sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   TREASURER. The City Treasurer, if a person other than the City Clerk holds
this title.
   WRITING. Includes printing and any other mode of representing words and
letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise defined.
Statutory reference:
   Citizen deemed sui juris at age 18, see S.C. Const. Art. XVII, § 14
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 15-1-320(a)
§ 1-6 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
   (B)   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females also,
and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
   (C)   All words importing the present tense shall apply to the future, also.
§ 1-7 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or
order promulgated by any agency or officer thereof under authority duly vested
in him or her, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or
an offense or misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required, where no
specific penalty is provided for the violation thereof, the violation of any
such provisions of this code, ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment for a period
not exceeding 30 days, or both; provided, however, that no penalty shall exceed
the penalty provided by state law for similar offenses. Each day any violation
of this code or any ordinance, rule or regulation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
§ 1-8 VIOLATIONS OF RULES, REGULATIONS AND ORDERS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, the violation of any rules,
regulations or orders promulgated by any officer or agency of the Council,
under authority vested in him or her by law, or by the provisions of this code
or any ordinance or resolution, shall be unlawful.
§ 1-9 LIABILITY OF CORPORATIONS AND AGENTS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization, while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment,
shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
such violation was the act or omission or the result of the act, omission or
order of any such person.
§ 1-10 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCE.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
§ 1-11 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to this code, which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed
chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof by subsequent
ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the code by omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following, but not necessarily the exact language:
“that §         of the City Code of the City of Bishopville is hereby amended
as follows:            .” The new provisions may then be set out in full as
enacted; the text and numbering system consistent with this code.
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “            that the Bishopville
City Code is hereby amended by adding a new section, to be numbered §
           , which section shall read as follows:                 .” The new
section shall then be set out in full. The sections of this code may be
renumbered to accomplish such intention.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 1-12 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner
whatsoever, which may cause the laws of this municipality to be misrepresented
thereby. Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be
punished as provided in §
1-7 hereof.
§ 1-13 PROSECUTION WHERE DIFFERENT PENALTIES EXIST FOR SAME OFFENSE.
   In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable, or shall be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the municipality,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed. Not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
§ 1-14 MUNICIPAL SEAL.
   The municipality shall have a common seal, to be in the custody of the
Clerk, which seal shall be affixed to all official documents of the
municipality as may be directed by the Council.
§ 1-15 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code may be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the City Council during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, when
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete, or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included
in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subsections;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subsections of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subsections to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subsection numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division” and so forth, as the case may
be, or to “§§            to            ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of sections inserted into the code; but, in no case, shall the
codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material
included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 1-16 CERTAIN ORDINANCES, RIGHTS AND THE LIKE NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code, or the ordinance adopting this code, shall
affect:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of the ordinance adopting this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the municipality, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
municipality or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness, or any
contract or obligations assumed by the municipality;
      (3)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the municipality
not in conflict with the provisions of this code;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution fixing salaries of officers or
employees of the municipality, unless superseded;
      (5)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution;
      (6)   Any right of franchise granted by the Council to any person, firm
or corporation;
      (7)   Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing,
locating, relocating, closing, opening, paving, widening, vacating and the
like, any street or public way in the municipality;
      (8)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street
grades of any streets in the municipality;
      (9)   Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements or
assessing taxes therefor;
      (10)   Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any plat or
subdivision in the municipality, or providing regulations for the same;
      (11)   Any ordinance annexing property to the municipality;
      (12)   Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance
establishing a Board of Zoning Appeals, Board of Architectural Review or
Planning Commission, including joint commissions;
      (13)   Any ordinance or resolution regulating the erection, alteration,
repair, demolition, moving or removal of buildings or other structures;
      (14)   Ordinances or resolutions prescribing traffic regulations for
specific locations, prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking
prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading
zones, not inconsistent with this code;
      (15)   Any ordinance or resolution fixing utility rates and charges;
      (16)   Any ordinance of agreement with another political subdivision;
      (17)   Any ordinance concerning issuance of tax anticipation notes or
other debt; or
      (18)   Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not
of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this
code as continuing in effect; and all such ordinances and resolutions are
hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as
if set out at length in this code. Such ordinances and resolutions are on file
in the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Nor shall the repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or part of
an ordinance that has been repealed or superseded by a subsequent ordinance
which is repealed by the ordinance of adoption of this code.
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article I. In General
   
2-1   Form of government
   
2-2   Composition of Council; terms
   
2-3   Compensation; increases; actual expenses
   
2-4   Mayor pro tempore; duties
   
2-5   Oath of office required
   
2-6   Ordinances
   
2-7   Enacting clause of ordinances
   
2-8   Ordinances required
   
2-9   Emergency ordinances
   
2-10   Codification of ordinances; standard codes
   
2-11   Notice required for franchises
   
2-12   Form of ordinances; introduced in writing
   
2-13   Introduction of ordinances; public inspection
   
2-14   Book of ordinances
   
2-15   Notation of amending or repealing ordinances
   
2-16   Enactment of ordinances; six days between readings
   
2-17   Introduction of resolutions
   
2-18   Adoption of resolutions
   
2-19   State of emergency; emergency powers of the Mayor
   
2-20   Council form of government; duties
   
2-21   Limitations on dealing with administrative service
   
2-22   Consolidation of departments, offices and the like; use of city owned
property
   
2-23   Disclosure of confidential information
   2-24—2-40   Reserved
Article II. Meetings of Council
   
2-41   Regular meetings; special meetings; open to public
   
2-42   Agenda
   
2-43   Minutes of Council meetings
   
2-44   Quorum; rules of order; parliamentarian
   
2-45   Unlawful to interrupt meetings or Municipal Court
   
2-46   Order of proceedings of Council
   
2-47   Appearance of citizens
   
2-48   Voting; Mayor may vote
   
2-49   Reasons for voting may be recorded
   
2-50   Interested member or Mayor not to vote
   
2-51   Mayor to preside; when Mayor and Mayor pro tempore absent
   
2-52   Executive sessions
   
2-53   Appointment of committees
   
2-54   Committee reports
   
2-55   Order of reports
   
2-56   When motions to be in writing
   
2-57   Motions not debatable
   
2-58   Precedence of motions during debate
   
2-59   Motions to reconsider
   2-60—2-80   Reserved
Article III. Municipal Elections
   
2-81   Election laws of the state to govern
   
2-82   Nonpartisan plurality method elections adopted; at-large
   
2-83   Filing fees
   
2-84   Public notice of elections
   
2-85   Date of municipal elections
   
2-86   Polling places and hours
   
2-87   Municipal Election Commission abolished
   
2-88   Manner of filing; statement of candidacy
   
2-89   When newly elected officers are to be qualified
   
2-90   When newly elected officers are to assume office
   
2-91   Contested elections
   
2-92   Special elections
   
2-93   Wards and precincts
   
2-94   County Registration and Elections Commission; authority to conduct
municipal elections
   2-95—2-110   Reserved
Article IV. Officers and Employees
   
2-111   Enforcement of ordinances, laws and the like
   
2-112   Right of entry
   
2-113   Resisting or interfering with officers or employees
   
2-114   Council to establish departments
   
2-115   State Other Retirement Benefits Employer Program
   2-116—2-130   Reserved
Article V. Municipal Clerk
   
2-131   Appointment; tenure
   
2-132   Clerk to enter into bond
   
2-133   Duties of Clerk
   
2-134   Clerk to act as Treasurer
   
2-135   Treasurer to be bonded
   2-136—2-150   Reserved
Article VI. Municipal Attorney
   
2-151   Appointment; tenure; residence of Municipal Attorney
   
2-152   Duties of Municipal Attorney
   
2-153   Compensation
   2-154—2-170   Reserved
Article VII. Administrator
   
2-171   Office of Administrator created
   
2-172   Authority of Administrator
   
2-173   Absence or disability
   
2-174   Faithful performance bond required
   2-175—2-190   Reserved
Article VIII. Finance
Division 1. Generally
   
2-191   Fiscal year
   
2-192   Budget and accounting year
   
2-193   Departments to submit budget
   
2-194   Budget capital projects to be prepared
   
2-195   Budget summary
   
2-196   Contingent expenses
   
2-197   Budget for utilities
   
2-198   Public hearing on budget
   
2-199   Budget open for inspection
   
2-200   Budget filed in office of the Clerk
   
2-201   Failure to adopt a budget by ordinance
   
2-202   Appropriations
   
2-203   Appropriations shall lapse
   
2-204   Emergency appropriations
   
2-205   Tax levy to be stated in budget; Clerk to notify county
   
2-206   Regular financial reports
   
2-207   Disbursements to be by check; signatures
   
2-208   Returned checks; collection fee
   
2-209   Audit
   
2-210   Borrowing in anticipation of collection of taxes
   
2-211   Payment of notes
   2-212—2-230   Reserved
Division 2. Purchasing
   
2-231   Purchasing agent; duties
   
2-232   Formal contract procedure
   
2-233   Bidding required to be competitive; exception
   
2-234   Award to lowest bidder; when advertising required
   
2-235   Bid deposits
   
2-236   Sealed bid procedures
   
2-237   Materials testing
   
2-238   Financial interest of city officials and employees prohibited
   
2-239   Records of open market orders and bids
   
2-240   Stock reports
   
2-241   Surplus stock
   
2-242   Supplies unsuitable for public use, sale or exchange
   
2-243   Gifts and rebates
   
2-244   Cooperative purchasing
   
2-245   State purchasing
Statutory reference:
   Bonded indebtedness of political subdivisions, see S.C. Const. Art. X, § 14
   Clerk duty to file certificate of existence of Fire Department, see S.C.
Code § 23-9-380
   Conflicts of interest of officers and employees, see S.C. Code § 5-7-130
   Covered jurisdictions must obtain federal preclearance of voting changes,
see 52 U.S.C. § 10304
   General structure and functions of all municipalities, see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-
10 et seq.
   Leaves of absence authorized for public officers and employees in National
Guard or military reserves, see S.C. Code § 8-7-90
   Local fee imposition limitations, see S.C. Code § 6-1-330
   Municipal Bond Act, see S.C. Code §§ 5-21-210 et seq.
   Municipal powers concerning airports and landing fields, see S.C. Code § 55-
9-190
   Municipal powers vested in Council, see S.C. Code § 5-7-160
   Nominations and elections for municipal offices, see S.C. Code §§ 5-15-10 et
seq.
   No property qualifications; duelists prohibited, see S.C. Constitution Art.
XVII, § 1B
   Political activities prohibited by members of local election commissions,
see S.C. Code § 7-13-75
   Powers conferred upon municipalities, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Procedure for submitting changes to U.S. Attorney General, see 28 C.F.R. §§
51.20 et seq.
   Qualifications for office, dual-office-holding, see S.C. Constitution Art.
XVII, § 1A
   State election law, see S.C. Code §§ 7-1-10 et seq.
   State municipalities are covered jurisdictions under the Voting Rights Act
of 1965, see 28 C.F.R. part 51, Appendix
   Towns over 200 population must publish financial statements, see S.C. Code §
5-21-50
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 2-1 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   Pursuant to the South Carolina Code of Laws, the city form of government
shall be the Council form.
Statutory references:
   Council form of government, see S.C. Code §§ 5-11-10 et seq.
   Forms of municipal government, see S.C. Code § 5-5-10
§ 2-2 COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL; TERMS.
   (A)   The Council shall be composed of a Mayor and six members, all of whom
shall be residents and qualified electors of the municipality.
   (B)   The terms of office for Mayor and members of Council shall be for non-
staggered, concurrent terms of four years.
§ 2-3 COMPENSATION; INCREASES; ACTUAL EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council members shall be paid an annual salary in an
amount to be determined from time to time by ordinance.
   (B)   Increases in compensation shall not become effective until the
commencement date of the terms of two or more members elected at the next
general election following the adoption of the ordinance, at which time it will
become effective for all members whether or not they were elected in such
election.
   (C)   The Mayor and members of Council may receive payment for actual
expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties when supported by
official expense vouchers.
(Ord. 88-89-10, passed 6-20-1989; Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-13-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Salaries determined by ordinance, see S.C. Code § 5-7-170
§ 2-4 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE; DUTIES.
   Immediately after any general election of the Council, the Council shall
elect from its membership a Mayor pro tempore for a term of not more than two
years. He or she shall act as Mayor during the absence or disability of the
Mayor. In case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore shall
serve until a successor is elected.
Statutory reference:
   Mayor pro tem elected from membership, see S.C. Code § 5-7-190
§ 2-5 OATH OF OFFICE REQUIRED.
   The Mayor and each member of Council, before entering upon the duties of
their respective offices, shall take the following oath.
 
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to the
Constitution of this state, to exercise the duties of the office to which I
have been elected and that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the
duties thereof, and preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of this state
and of the United States.
 
§ 2-6 ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the duty of the Council to pass, from time to time, such
ordinances as in its judgment shall best promote the interests of the citizens
and property owners of the municipality.
§ 2-7 ENACTING CLAUSE OF ORDINANCES.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be, in substance, as follows:
“Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Bishopville, South Carolina:”
§ 2-8 ORDINANCES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Council shall act by ordinance in all matters required by law to
be done by ordinance, in order to:
      (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or
abolish any department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
      (3)   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
      (4)   Grant, renew or extend franchises, licenses or rights in public
streets, or in public property and close abandoned streets;
      (5)   Authorize the borrowing of money or the issuance of bonds;
      (6)   Levy taxes, assess property for improvements or establish charges
for services;
      (7)   Annex areas;
      (8)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands;
and
      (9)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in subsections (1) through
(8) above.
   (B)   In all other matters, the Council may act either by ordinance,
resolution or on motion, written or oral, which shall be recorded in the
minutes.
Statutory reference:
   Acts requiring ordinance, see S.C. Code § 5-7-260
§ 2-9 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   Emergency ordinances shall conform to the provisions of S.C. Code § 5-7-250
(d) and §
2-16(C).
§ 2-10 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES; STANDARD CODES.
   (A)   All ordinances amending this code shall be indexed, codified and
available for public inspection at reasonable times.
   (B)   Standard codes, technical regulations, business license ordinances and
zoning ordinances may be cited in the code by reference and copies thereof
shall be made available by the Clerk for distribution or for purchase at a
reasonable price.
Statutory references:
   Ordinances must be codified, see S.C. Code § 5-7-290
   Technical codes adopted by reference, see S.C. Code § 5-7-280
§ 2-11 NOTICE REQUIRED FOR FRANCHISES.
   Prior to the introduction of an ordinance granting a franchise, license or
right for the use of any street or public property, or for the permanent
closing of any abandoned street, the applicant for such ordinance shall publish
a notice in a newspaper having general circulation in the municipality stating
the nature of the franchise, license or right sought, or a description of the
street sought to be closed, and the date on which the application is to be
presented to Council, which shall be at least one week after the last notice.
This requirement shall not apply to the temporary closing of a public street
initiated by Council.
§ 2-12 FORM OF ORDINANCES; INTRODUCED IN WRITING.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form
required for final adoption which shall include:
   (A)   A number;
   (B)   A title briefly describing the contents;
   (C)   Findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired and when
appropriate;
   (D)   An enacting clause as set forth in §
2-8;
   (E)   A repealing provision, when appropriate;
   (F)   The provisions of the ordinance, including section numbers, when
appropriate;
   (G)   The effective date of the ordinance and dates of first and second
readings and approval of the City Attorney as to form, when asked; and
   (H)   Space for the signatures of the Mayor or, in the absence of the Mayor,
the presiding member of Council and the Clerk attesting notice of adoption.
Statutory reference:
   Form of ordinances, see S.C. Code § 5-7-270
§ 2-13 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES; PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of Council or the City
Administrator. A proposed ordinance shall be referred to the City Attorney,
when appropriate, for approval as to legality and form, and he or she shall
render assistance in the preparation of ordinances when requested to do so. An
ordinance may be deemed to be introduced when, at a public meeting of Council,
its title is read.
   (B)   After an ordinance is in proper form and the required notices have
been given, the Clerk shall hold the ordinance for public inspection.
§ 2-14 BOOK OF ORDINANCES.
   The Clerk shall enter the original copy of all ordinances passed by the
Council in a book which shall be known as the “Book of Ordinances,” and it
shall be indexed.
§ 2-15 NOTATION OF AMENDING OR REPEALING ORDINANCES.
   The Clerk shall write on the first page of every ordinance, subsequent to
entry in the ordinance book, if the same shall be amended or repealed, as the
case may be, the words “amended” or “repealed” with a reference on the
ordinance in the ordinance book as to where the amending or repealing ordinance
can be found.
§ 2-16 ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES; SIX DAYS BETWEEN READINGS.
   (A)   An ordinance to levy a tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds, grant a
franchise, license or right to use or occupy a public street or public property
for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is finally
passed. In such form it shall remain on file with the Clerk for public
inspection.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read two times
and on two separate days with at least six days between each reading.
   (C)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on one reading, without notice or
hearing, by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members present. An emergency
ordinance may not levy taxes, relate to a franchise or a service rate and shall
expire automatically on the sixty-first day following its enactment.
   (D)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance may be by the reading of
the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of Council.
   (E)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any member of Council or any
city-citizen taxpayer interested therein may request a public hearing unless a
public hearing has already been held on the subject matter of the ordinance
within one year previous; provided, that no major changes have been made to the
original ordinance. Said public hearing shall be held at a time designated by
Council prior to final adoption. Also, any city-citizen taxpayer may request
the right to address Council prior to final adoption of the ordinance. This
request must be submitted to the Administrator’s office in writing 24 hours
prior to the second reading date.
   (F)   Upon final adoption, by majority vote of Council, an ordinance shall
be signed by the Mayor, or presiding member in the absence of the Mayor, and
attested by the Clerk.
§ 2-17 INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   A voice motion by a member of Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution which shall require no written record other
than a notation by the Clerk in the Council minutes. However, a resolution
proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same manner as an ordinance and
in such form as may be recommended as applicable by the City Attorney, when
appropriate.
§ 2-18 ADOPTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on one reading unless a public
hearing is set by a majority of the members of Council present.
§ 2-19 STATE OF EMERGENCY; EMERGENCY POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crises, disaster, rioting, civil disturbances, catastrophe or
for any other reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public
order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health, welfare or
property.
   (B)   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the citizenry or threatening damage to or
destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue
a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency and, in order to more effectively to protect lives, safety and
property, to define and impose a curfew applicable to all persons within the
jurisdiction of the Council.
   (C)   The Mayor is further authorized and empowered to limit the application
of such a curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
jurisdiction of the Council, and to specific hours of the day or night, and to
exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses and such
others as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the needs of the people within the corporate limits.
§ 2-20 COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Council form of government is considered to be government by
committee, because the Council exercises all legislative, executive and
administrative functions.
   (B)   This form, known as the weak Mayor form of government, is composed of
a Mayor and a Council of six members, who each have one vote, in accordance
with S.C. Code § 5-11-20.
(Ord. 2023-034, passed 6-28-2023)
§ 2-21 LIMITATIONS ON DEALING WITH ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   (A)   Neither the Mayor, Council nor any of its members shall direct or
request the appointment of any person to, or his or her removal from, office by
the City Administrator or by any of his or her subordinates, or in any manner
take part in the appointment or removal of employees in the administrative
service of the city. The Mayor, Council and its members shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the City Administrator, and neither the
Mayor, Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of
the City Administrator, either publicly or privately.
   (B)   Any Mayor or Council member violating the provisions of this section
or voting for a resolution or ordinance in violation of this section shall be
guilty of malfeasance in office and shall thereby disqualify himself or herself
as Mayor or a member of the Council.
(Ord. 2023-034, passed 6-28-2023)
§ 2-22 CONSOLIDATION OF DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND THE LIKE; USE OF CITY OWNED
PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Administrator may consolidate or combine offices, positions,
departments or units under his or her jurisdiction and establish the work
schedules and policies of each department and access to city facilities.
   (B)   No member of Council, Mayor or employee shall request or permit the
use of city-owned vehicles, equipment, materials, technology or property for
personal convenience or profit except when such services are available to the
public generally or are provided as city policy for the use of such official or
employee in the conduct of official business.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall designate and schedule use of a general
shared office and/or conference space, by appointment and during regular
business hours, for use by individual members of Council, committees and Mayor.
(Ord. 2023-034, passed 6-28-2023)
§ 2-23 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No Council member, Mayor or other official or employee shall use or
disclose confidential information gained in the course of or by reason of their
official position or activities in any way that would result in financial gain
for themselves or for any other person.
   (B)   Communications, announcements or information disseminated on behalf of
the city shall be made by the City Administrator unless alternate spokesperson
(s) are designated by majority vote of the Council and Mayor.
(Ord. 2023-034, passed 6-28-2023)
§§ 2-24—2-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. MEETINGS OF COUNCIL
§ 2-41 REGULAR MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS; OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   The regular meetings of Council shall be held on the first Tuesday of
each month at the Colclough Memorial Building at 5:30 p.m. Should another
Council meeting become necessary in the course of a month, then that meeting
will be held on another day of the month and at such time as determined by the
Mayor or the City Administrator, at the Colclough Memorial Building, with
proper notification to all members of Council and the news media. Meeting dates
may be changed by a majority vote of members present at any regular or special
meeting. Notice of all changed meetings and special meetings shall be given to
all available members and the news media by the Clerk.
   (B)   All Council meetings shall be open to the public, as required by the
Freedom of Information Act of 1972, as amended, being 5 U.S.C. Chapter 5,
Subchapter II, § 522.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-20-2014; Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-21-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Council meetings, rules, see S.C. Code § 5-7-250
   Freedom of Information Act, meetings, see S.C. Code § 30-4-80
§ 2-42 AGENDA.
   Matters to be considered by Council at a regular meeting shall be placed on
a written agenda and publicly posted at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 2014-07, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 2-43 MINUTES OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall keep the minutes of all public meetings of the Council which
shall be a matter of permanent public record. At each regular Council meeting,
the minutes of the previous meeting or meetings shall be presented for
approval. Minutes shall not be considered the official record of a meeting
until approved by the Council. Any member of Council desiring to express a
position in the minutes on a matter voted upon by Council may do so by
presenting the position in writing to Council not later than the next regular
meeting. No person shall make any change in the minutes or remove same from
City Hall, without prior approval of the Mayor or Council.
§ 2-44 QUORUM; RULES OF ORDER; PARLIAMENTARIAN.
   (A)   A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of
business at any meeting.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by state law or this code, all
proceedings of Council shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall act as parliamentarian. In his or her absence,
all questions of order shall be decided by the Mayor or, in his or her absence,
the presiding officer, without debate, subject to an appeal to the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Council powers; quorum, see S.C. Code § 5-7-160
§ 2-45 UNLAWFUL TO INTERRUPT MEETINGS OR MUNICIPAL COURT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to interrupt the proceedings
of Council, the court or any other official body while in session.
Statutory reference:
   Contempt of court, see S.C. Code § 14-1-150
§ 2-46 ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS OF COUNCIL.
   The order of proceedings of Council meetings may be substantially as
follows:
   (A)   Calling the roll;
   (B)   Approval of the minutes;
   (C)   Petitions and communications;
   (D)   Reports of committees;
   (E)   Old business;
   (F)   New business; and
   (G)   Adjournment.
§ 2-47 APPEARANCE OF CITIZENS.
   Any citizen of the city may be placed on the agenda of any regular meeting
to discuss any municipal matter with the exception of personnel matters for a
period not exceeding ten minutes. Persons, including Council members, desiring
to be placed on the agenda shall notify the Mayor or Administrator in writing,
stating the item he or she wishes to discuss, by 5:00 p.m. on the Thursday
prior to the next regular meeting. Matters (other than those routinely placed
on the agenda) to be considered by Council and placed on the agenda must be
presented to the City Administrator, who shall set the agenda, in writing, by
5:00 p.m. on the Thursday prior to the next regular meeting.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2014-08, passed 12-2-2014)
§ 2-48 VOTING; MAYOR MAY VOTE.
   (A)   A show of hands or a voice vote shall be sufficient to record votes.
During the voting, no member shall leave the Council chamber, without
permission of the presiding officer.
   (B)   All actions of Council shall be by majority vote of the members
present.
   (C)   The result of each vote on every question shall be recorded in the
minutes by the Clerk. The “yeas” and “nays” on any question shall be recorded,
when requested by any member.
   (D)   Every member of Council, including the Mayor, shall have one vote on
every question, except when required to refrain from voting by state law.
§ 2-49 REASONS FOR VOTING MAY BE RECORDED.
   Any member shall have his or her reasons for voting for or against any
measure recorded in the minutes, at his or her request.
§ 2-50 INTERESTED MEMBER OR MAYOR NOT TO VOTE.
   Neither the Mayor nor any member of Council shall vote on any question of a
private nature in which he or she is personally or pecuniarily interested.
§ 2-51 MAYOR TO PRESIDE; WHEN MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEMPORE ABSENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all Council meetings, when present.
   (B)   In the absence of both the Mayor and Mayor pro tempore, the duties of
the Mayor shall be performed by such member of the Council as the Council may
designate.
§ 2-52 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   Council may hold executive sessions as permitted by the State Freedom
of Information Act, being S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 et seq. at such times and places
as Council may deem necessary and in the public interest.
   (B)   A majority vote of Council shall be necessary to call such sessions.
   (C)   Any formal action taken in executive session shall be ratified
thereafter in public session, prior to such action becoming effective.
Statutory reference:
   Meetings which may be closed, see S.C. Code § 30-4-70
   Public body meetings must be open, see S.C. Code § 30-4-60
§ 2-53 APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
   Council may appoint a committee to assist in or hold a public hearing for
Council at any time upon any matter pending before it unless otherwise
prohibited by law. Minutes or reports of hearings held by such committees shall
be filed with the Clerk as public records.
§ 2-54 COMMITTEE REPORTS.
   (A)   Committee reports may be in writing and signed by a majority of the
committee.
   (B)   Any report involving the expenditure of money shall be in writing and
include the amount to be expended, or an approximation thereof, and the reasons
therefor.
§ 2-55 ORDER OF REPORTS.
   Reports of committees, in the order of business, shall be rendered as the
presiding officer may determine.
§ 2-56 WHEN MOTIONS TO BE IN WRITING.
   All motions shall be reduced to writing at the request of the Mayor or any
member of Council.
§ 2-57 MOTIONS NOT DEBATABLE.
   The following motions shall be without debate:
   (A)   To adjourn;
   (B)   To lay on the table;
   (C)   To read any paper;
   (D)   To take the yeas and nays for the previous question; and
   (E)   To reconsider.
§ 2-58 PRECEDENCE OF MOTIONS DURING DEBATE.
   (A)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received except a
motion:
      (1)   To adjourn;
      (2)   To lay on the table;
      (3)   For the previous question;
      (4)   To postpone to a certain day; or
      (5)   To commit, to amend or to postpone indefinitely.
   (B)   The above motions shall have precedence in the order in which they are
set forth.
§ 2-59 MOTIONS TO RECONSIDER.
   A motion to reconsider shall not be entertained unless it be made by a
member of Council who voted with the majority, and such motion shall be made
only at the same or next succeeding meeting.
§§ 2-60—2-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
§ 2-81 ELECTION LAWS OF THE STATE TO GOVERN.
   All municipal elections shall be conducted in accordance with the election
laws of the state as provided in S.C. Code §§ 5-15-10 et seq.
§ 2-82 NONPARTISAN PLURALITY METHOD ELECTIONS ADOPTED; AT-LARGE.
   (A)   All regular and special elections for public office shall be
nonpartisan, and no political party affiliation shall be placed on any ballot.
Election results shall be determined according to the nonpartisan plurality
method prescribed in S.C. Code § 5-15-61.
   (B)   All elections for Mayor and Council shall be “at-large.”
§ 2-83 FILING FEES.
   (A)   All candidates for Mayor and City Council shall pay a filing fee in an
amount as determined from time to time by ordinance. Fees shall be paid at time
of filing.
   (B)   Filing fees for the office of Mayor will be an amount equivalent to
one month’s salary for the office of Mayor.
   (C)   Filing fees for the office of City Council will be an amount
equivalent to one month’s salary for the office of City Council.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-1-2009)
§ 2-84 PUBLIC NOTICE OF ELECTIONS.
   Public notice of all municipal elections shall be given at least 60 days
prior to such elections, pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-50.
§ 2-85 DATE OF MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   All municipal elections for the office of Mayor and Council, respectively,
other than special elections, shall be held in odd years on the second Tuesday
in May.
§ 2-86 POLLING PLACES AND HOURS.
   Polling places shall be open from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and shall be
designated by Council.
§ 2-87 MUNICIPAL ELECTION COMMISSION.
   The Municipal Election Commission for the city is hereby abolished.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 2-88 MANNER OF FILING; STATEMENT OF CANDIDACY.
   A filing statement for the office of Mayor and for Council shall be filed at
the office of the City Clerk no later than 12:00 p.m., 30 days before the date
of the election.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 2-89 WHEN NEWLY ELECTED OFFICERS ARE TO BE QUALIFIED.
   Newly elected officers shall not be qualified until at least 48 hours after
the closing of the polls.
Statutory reference:
   Vote counting, see S.C. Code § 5-15-120
§ 2-90 WHEN NEWLY ELECTED OFFICERS ARE TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   Newly elected officers shall assume office on July 1, immediately following
the election, unless said election is contested.
§ 2-91 CONTESTED ELECTIONS.
   Should the results of an election be contested, the incumbent who fills that
contested office shall hold over until the contest is finally determined.
§ 2-92 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   Special elections, when required, shall be scheduled by the Council. Public
notice of such elections shall be given at least 60 days prior thereto.
Statements of candidacy shall be filed with the city at least 30 days prior to
the date of special elections.
§ 2-93 WARDS AND PRECINCTS.
   The boundaries of ward or precinct lines shall include that part of the city
shown on an official map duly adopted and on file in the Office of the Clerk
and incorporated herein by reference.
§ 2-94 COUNTY REGISTRATION AND ELECTIONS COMMISSION; AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-145, and upon the successful enactment of
an ordinance by the county accepting transfer of the following state authority,
the City Council hereby transfers all responsibility and authority in conduct
of municipal elections to the County Registration and Elections Commission and
staff to conduct the city’s municipal elections, beginning with the election
scheduled for May of 2023, on behalf of the city.
   (B)   It is specifically agreed to by and between the city and the county,
that this transfer and acceptance of authority to conduct the city’s municipal
elections, beginning with the election schedule for May 2023. The city agrees
to promptly reimburse the county for all actual expenditures incurred in the
administration of municipal elections.
   (C)   This transfer and acceptance of authority will remain in effect
indefinitely and will affect all elections until canceled or revoked by
ordinance by either the city or the county.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 2-7-2023)
§§ 2-95—2-110 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 2-111 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES, LAWS AND THE LIKE.
   All officers and employees shall enforce obedience to all state statutes,
provisions of this code or any resolution, rules and regulations or orders
issued thereunder by lawful authority, by instituting such procedures as may be
necessary to such enforcement.
§ 2-112 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Subject to lawful entry requirements, whenever any officer or employee is
required to enter any premises or vehicle as authorized by statute, the
provisions of this code or any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order
issued thereunder, he or she shall have the right to enter any such premises or
vehicle at any reasonable time.
§ 2-113 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or interfere with any member
of the Police Department, Fire Department or any other officer or employee in
the discharge of his or her official duties.
§ 2-114 COUNCIL TO ESTABLISH DEPARTMENTS.
   The Council may establish departments, offices and agencies and prescribe
the functions thereof.
Statutory reference:
   Council may create departments, offices and agencies, see S.C. Code § 5-11-
40
§ 2-115 STATE OTHER RETIREMENT BENEFITS EMPLOYER PROGRAM.
   (A)   The governing board of the local government does hereby elect to
become a participating employer in the program and adopts the State Other
Retirement Benefits Employer Trust Agreement and the State Other Retirement
Benefits Employer Program Plan document effective April 5, 2011.
   (B)   The trust’s governing board does hereby appoint the Municipal
Association of South Carolina (“MASC”) as the initial Program Administrator to
act on the local government’s behalf in all matters involving the plan and
trust. The Program Administrator may only be removed by a two-thirds vote of
the trust’s governing board.
   (C)   The governing board hereby authorizes its Local Government
Administrator, Manager or any designee of such officer to execute the
participation agreement on behalf of the local government.
   (D)   The governing board hereby appoints the City Administrator or his or
her successor or his or her designee, as Local Government Administrator for the
program.
   (E)   The governing board hereby authorizes the Local Government
Administrator and all other officers and officials of the local government to
implement the program and to take whatever additional actions are necessary to
maintain the local government’s participation in the program, and to execute
such documents and to perform such acts as he or she, in his or her judgment,
deems necessary or desirable to effectuate the intent of this section, the
participation agreement, the plan and trust and to maintain compliance with
relevant rules issued or as may be issued.
   (F)   The local government agrees to abide by the terms and rules of the
plan and the trust, including all investment, administrative and service
agreements of the program, and all applicable provisions of the code and other
applicable law.
   (G)   The local government agrees that all benefit disbursements will be
solely used to provide health and welfare benefits to eligible retirees, and in
accord with the requirements of GASB 45 and I.R.C. §§ 79, 101, 104, 105 and
106. The program provides no guaranty of the tax consequences of any
disbursements; therefore, it is the local government’s responsibility to
determine taxability of such disbursements.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 4-5-2011)
§§ 2-116—2-130 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. MUNICIPAL CLERK
§ 2-131 APPOINTMENT; TENURE.
   The Council shall appoint an officer of the municipality who shall have the
title of Municipal Clerk and who shall serve at the pleasure of Council.
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and duties of Clerk, see S.C. Code § 5-7-220
§ 2-132 CLERK TO ENTER INTO BOND.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Clerk shall
enter into bond in such sum as may be required by Council with good and
sufficient surety for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   The fee therefor shall be paid by the municipality.
§ 2-133 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   The Clerk shall serve as ex officio Clerk of Council, give notice of
meetings, prepare and post the agenda, attend regular and special meetings,
record votes of Council, attest all ordinances and resolutions, keep minutes of
Council meetings and perform such other duties as may be assigned by Council.
§ 2-134 CLERK TO ACT AS TREASURER.
   In addition to all other duties, the Clerk shall act also as the Treasurer
and perform those duties commonly associated therewith, pursuant to state
statutes and this code.
§ 2-135 TREASURER TO BE BONDED.
   Should the Treasurer be other than the Clerk, he or she shall be bonded as
provided for the Clerk in §
2-132.
§§ 2-136—2-150 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY
§ 2-151 APPOINTMENT; TENURE; RESIDENCE OF MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Council may appoint a Municipal Attorney who shall be a lawyer of good
and reputable standing. He or she shall hold office at the pleasure of Council.
He or she need not be a resident of the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Council may appoint Municipal Attorney, see S.C. Code § 5-7-230
§ 2-152 DUTIES OF MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Attorney shall attend all meetings of Council, unless excused by
Council. He or she shall act as parliamentarian. When requested to do so, he or
she shall draft ordinances and resolutions and review all ordinances,
resolutions and documents presented to Council. He or she shall give opinions
upon questions of municipal procedure, form and law to any member of Council
and other municipal officials, when requested.
   (B)   It also may be the duty of the Attorney to prosecute all cases before
the Municipal Court when a jury trial is demanded or the defendant is
represented by an Attorney.
   (C)   The Attorney shall defend the municipality against all civil suits,
unless an insurance or liability coverage provider for the city selects legal
counsel under the terms of the contract with the city.
§ 2-153 COMPENSATION.
   The Attorney shall be compensated as determined by Council.
§§ 2-154—2-170 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. ADMINISTRATOR
§ 2-171 OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATOR CREATED.
   The office of City Administrator is hereby created.
§ 2-172 AUTHORITY OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator shall direct the affairs of the city, subject to the
direction and supervision of the City Council.
§ 2-173 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY.
   In the event of the temporary absence or disability of the Administrator,
the Mayor may designate a qualified person to perform the duties of the
Administrator.
§ 2-174 FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BOND REQUIRED.
   The Administrator shall give bond in such amount as may be required by
Council, with an approved surety company authorized to act as surety under the
laws of the state, for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office. The premium for such bond shall be paid by the city.
§§ 2-175—2-190 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. FINANCE
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 2-191 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 and shall end on the following June
30.
§ 2-192 BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING YEAR.
   The fiscal year also shall constitute the budget and accounting year.
§ 2-193 DEPARTMENTS TO SUBMIT BUDGET.
   Before the beginning of the budget year, the head of each department shall
submit a proposed budget for the ensuing year to the Administrator.
§ 2-194 BUDGET CAPITAL PROJECTS TO BE PREPARED.
   Prior to each budget year, a budget shall be prepared by the City
Administrator prior to the new fiscal year. For such purpose, he or she shall
obtain from the heads of each office or department, and in such detail as he or
she may require, estimates of expenditures and such other supporting data as he
or she may request, together with estimates of all capital projects pending or
which such department head believes should be undertaken within the budget year
and within the next five succeeding years.
§ 2-195 BUDGET SUMMARY.
   The budget summary shall be in sufficient detail and summarized as to income
and expenditures in such a manner as to present to taxpayers a simple and clear
summary of the budget.
§ 2-196 CONTINGENT EXPENSES.
   Separate provisions may be included in the budget for contingent expenses
for the administration, operation and maintenance of the city.
§ 2-197 BUDGET FOR UTILITIES.
   The anticipated revenues and proposed expenditures of all utilities shall be
stated in a separate section or sections of the budget. All provisions relating
to the preparation and administration of the general budget shall apply to the
budget of the utility.
§ 2-198 PUBLIC HEARING ON BUDGET.
   The Council shall determine a place and time for a public hearing on the
budget and shall post a notice thereof which shall be not less than 15 days
before the date of the hearing.
§ 2-199 BUDGET OPEN FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year and
shall be a public record in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection
during regular office hours.
§ 2-200 BUDGET FILED IN OFFICE OF THE CLERK.
   A permanent copy of the budget, as finally adopted, shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk.
§ 2-201 FAILURE TO ADOPT A BUDGET BY ORDINANCE.
   Should the Council fail to adopt a budget by ordinance for the next fiscal
year, on or before its beginning, the budget as initially proposed to the
Council shall be effective until finally adopted.
§ 2-202 APPROPRIATIONS.
   From the effective date of the budget, the several amounts stated therein as
proposed expenditures shall be and become appropriated to the several objects
and purposes therein named.
§ 2-203 APPROPRIATIONS SHALL LAPSE.
   All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the budget year to the extent
that they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered.
§ 2-204 EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS.
   In the absence of unappropriated available revenues to meet emergency
appropriations, the Council may authorize by ordinance the issuance of notes,
which may be renewed from time to time, but all such notes and renewals thereof
shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next succeeding
the budget year in which the emergency appropriation was made.
§ 2-205 TAX LEVY TO BE STATED IN BUDGET; CLERK TO NOTIFY COUNTY.
   The Council shall identify in the budget sources of anticipated revenue,
including tax levy necessary to meet the financial requirements of the budgets.
It shall be the duty of the Clerk to notify the appropriate county officials of
any change in the tax millage rates.
§ 2-206 REGULAR FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The Clerk shall furnish to the Council such financial statements of all
receipts and disbursements, as the Council may require.
§ 2-207 DISBURSEMENTS TO BE BY CHECK; SIGNATURES.
   All disbursements shall be by check and signed by two of the following:
Mayor, Administrator and/or Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 2-208 RETURNED CHECKS; COLLECTION FEE.
   All dishonored checks payable to the city and redeemed by the maker shall
have added to the principal sum a collection fee of such amount as may be
determined by the Council.
§ 2-209 AUDIT.
   Prior to the end of each fiscal year, the Council shall designate a
qualified certified public accountant who, at the end of the fiscal year, shall
make an independent audit of the accounts and other evidence of financial
transactions of the municipality and shall submit a report to the Council. Such
accountant shall have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal
affairs of the municipality or of any of its officers. He or she shall, within
specifications approved by Council, post-audit the books and documents kept by
any office, department, board or agency of the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Council required to provide for independent audit, see S.C. Code § 5-7-240
§ 2-210 BORROWING IN ANTICIPATION OF COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   The Council may, during each calendar year, borrow money for its current
expenses and pledge for the payment of any monies so borrowed the taxes
becoming payable during such calendar year, pursuant to state statutes
authorizing same.
§ 2-211 PAYMENT OF NOTES.
   The power and obligation of the Council to pay notes issued by it pursuant
to this article shall be unlimited, and the Council may levy ad valorem taxes
on all the taxable property within the corporate limits for the payment of such
notes and interest thereon. The full faith and credit of the municipality shall
be pledged for the payment of the principal and interest on any notes issued
pursuant to this article.
§§ 2-212—2-230 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PURCHASING
§ 2-231 PURCHASING AGENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Administrator, or an officer of the city designated by the
City Administrator with approval of Council, shall be the purchasing agent for
the city.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The purchase of supplies, materials and equipment and contractual
services required by any office, department or agency of the city government;
      (2)   The storage and distribution of all supplies, materials and
equipment required by any office, department or agency of the city government;
      (3)   Establishing written specifications, whenever practicable, for
supplies, materials and equipment required by any office, department or agency
of the city government. Such specifications shall be definite and certain and
shall permit competition;
      (4)   Maintaining, whenever practicable, a perpetual inventory record of
all materials, supplies or equipment stores in storerooms or warehouses;
      (5)   Soliciting and maintaining an up-to-date list of qualified
suppliers who have requested their names to be added to a “bidders list.” The
purchasing agent shall have authority to remove temporarily the names of
vendors who have defaulted on their quotations, attempted to defraud the city
or who have failed to meet established specifications or delivery dates; and
      (6)   Obtaining as full and open competition as possible on all
purchases, contracts and sales.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 2-232 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein,
when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $5,000, shall be purchased by
formal, written contract from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting proposals. No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the
requirements of this section. All sales of personal property which have become
obsolete or unusable, when the estimated value shall exceed $2,000, shall be
sold by formal written contract to the highest bidder, after due notice
inviting proposals, or at public auction properly advertised, at the discretion
of the Council.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 2-233 BIDDING REQUIRED TO BE COMPETITIVE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Competitive bidding. Before any purchases or contracts for supplies,
materials, equipment or services exceeding $10,000 are made, the purchasing
agent shall give ample opportunity for competitive bidding. For purchases or
contracts not exceeding $5,000, oral bids may be accepted. All other bids shall
be in writing. Competitive bidding shall be encouraged for all contracts,
purchases or sales.
   (B)   Individual contracts, purchases or sales. The Council shall not accept
individual contracts, purchases or sales from the requirement of competitive
bidding. However, in the event of an emergency affecting the public welfare,
health or safety, the provisions of this section shall not apply. A full report
of the circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the purchasing
agent with the City Council and entered in the minutes of Council.
   (C)   Bid protest procedure. Any actual bidder or contractor who is
aggrieved in connection with the intended award or award of a contract shall
protest to the City Administrator or his or her designee(s) in the manner
stated below within ten calendar days of the date of notification of award
posted in accordance with this policy.
   (D)   Protest procedure. A protest shall be in writing, submitted to the
City Administrator or his or her designee(s) and shall set forth the grounds of
protest and relief requested.
   (E)   Authority to resolve protest. The City Administrator or his or her
designee(s), in coordination with and under the advisement of the City
Attorney, shall have authority, prior to the commencement of an action in
court, to resolve a protest by an actual aggrieved bidder concerning the award
of a contract.
   (F)   Decision. If the protest is not resolved by mutual agreement, the City
Administrator or his or her designee(s) in coordination with the City Attorney
shall issue a decision in writing within ten days after receipt of the protest.
The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken.
   (G)   Notice of decision. A copy of the decision shall be mailed or
otherwise furnished immediately to the aggrieved bidder and any other involved
party.
   (H)   Failure to render timely decision. If the City Administrator or his or
her designee(s) does not issue the written decision within a reasonable time
after written request for a final decision or within such longer period as may
be agreed upon by the parties, then the contractor shall proceed as if an
adverse decision has been received.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 2-234 AWARD TO LOWEST BIDDER; WHEN ADVERTISING REQUIRED.
   (A)   All contracts for city improvements, materials, equipment or services
costing more than $20,000 shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder
after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least
five days before the last day set for receipt of proposals; provided, however,
that in case of professional services, this section shall not apply.
   (B)   The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general
description of the articles or services to be purchased and shall state where
bid blanks and specifications may be secured and the time and place for opening
bids.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-2-2013)
§ 2-235 BID DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the purchasing agent, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Upon entering into a contract,
bidders shall be entitled to return of bid deposit. A successful bidder shall
forfeit any bid deposit upon failure on his or her part to enter into a
contract within ten days after the award; provided, however, that the city, in
its uncontrolled discretion, may waive this forfeiture.
§ 2-236 SEALED BID PROCEDURES.
   Procedure for sealed bids shall be as follows.
   (A)   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the purchasing agent securely
sealed in an envelope and shall be identified on the envelope in accordance
with bid instructions.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notices.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public inspection.
   (D)   Rejection of bids. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of all bids or all bids for anyone or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
   (E)   Bidders in default to city. The purchasing agent shall not accept the
bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in the payment of taxes,
license or other monies due the city.
   (F)   Award of contract.
      (1)   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to award contracts
within the purview of this division; provided, however, that contracts in
excess of $5,000 shall have been previously identified and approved in the
current year’s budget or submitted to City Council for approval and provided,
further, that this shall not apply to standard operating and maintenance. In
the event of an emergency, the purchasing agent shall have the authority to
exceed this $5,000 limit, but must notify all of City Council on or before the
next scheduled Council meeting, explaining the necessity of the purchase.
      (2)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In
determining “lowest responsible bidder,” in addition to price, the purchasing
agent shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the services required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the services for which he or she
submitted a bid;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   It is the policy of the city to provide minorities and women equal
opportunity for participating in all aspects of the city’s contracting and
procurement programs, including, but not limited to, employment, construction
projects and lease agreements consistent with the laws of the state.
      (4)   It is further the policy of the city to conduct its contracting and
procurement programs so as to prevent discrimination and to resolve any and all
claims of discrimination.
   (G)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the purchasing agent and filed with the
papers relating to the transaction and retained for a period of not less than
12 months.
   (H)   Tie bids; local vendors.
      (1)   If all bids received are for the same total amount or unit price,
quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to the local
bidder. If two or more of such bids are submitted by local bidders, the
purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the local tie bidders by
drawing lots in public. If local bidders are not involved in the tie bids, the
purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the outside tie bidders by
drawing lots in public.
      (2)   The purchasing agent, local bidders and vendors should bear in
mind, however, that to award a contract to a local vendor where he or she is
not the lowest responsible bidder, or where price, quality and service are not
equal, is to give preference to one minute segment of the citizenry against the
best interests of the community as a whole.
   (I)   Performance bonds. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
require a performance bond before entering into a contract, in such form and
amount as he or she shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best
interest of the city.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-2-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Political subdivisions required to adopt procurement laws, see S.C. Code §
11-35-50
   Procurement and intergovernmental relations, see S.C. Code § 11-35-10 et
seq.
§ 2-237 MATERIALS TESTING.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries which
are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications. In the performance of such tests, he or she shall have the
authority to make use of laboratory facilities of any agency of the city or any
outside laboratories.
§ 2-238 FINANCIAL INTEREST OF CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   Any municipal officer or employee who has a substantial financial interest
in any business which contracts with the municipality for sale or lease of
land, materials, supplies, equipment or services or who personally engages in
such matters shall make known that interest and refrain from voting upon or
otherwise participating in his or her capacity as a city officer or employee in
matters related thereto. Any city officer or employee who willfully conceals
such a substantial financial interest or willfully violates the requirements of
this section shall constitute malfeasance in office and, upon conviction, shall
forfeit his or her office or position. Violation of this section with the
express or implied knowledge of the person or corporation contracting with or
making a sale to the city, shall render the contract or sale voidable by the
City Council.
§ 2-239 RECORDS OF OPEN MARKET ORDERS AND BIDS.
   The purchasing agent shall keep a record of all open market orders and the
bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records also shall be open to
public inspection.
§ 2-240 STOCK REPORTS.
   Reports shall be made by all offices, departments or agencies of the city to
the purchasing agent, at such times and in such form as he or she shall
prescribe, showing stocks of all supplies which are no longer used or which
have become obsolete, worn out or scrapped.
§ 2-241 SURPLUS STOCK.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to transfer surplus stock to other
offices, departments or agencies of the city government.
§ 2-242 SUPPLIES UNSUITABLE FOR PUBLIC USE, SALE OR EXCHANGE.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to sell all supplies which have
become unsuitable for public use or to exchange the same for, or trade-in the
same on, new supplies. Such sales shall be made to the highest bidder and in
conformance with §
2-232. All monies received from such sales shall be paid into either the
General Fund or the Utility Fund of the city, as appropriate.
§ 2-243 GIFTS AND REBATES.
   The purchasing agent and every officer and employee of the city are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is, or
might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money or anything of value whatsoever,
except where given for the use and benefit of the city.
§ 2-244 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interest of the city
would be served thereby.
§ 2-245 STATE PURCHASING.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to make purchases of supplies and
equipment through the property division of the State Budget and Control Board,
without the formality of publication and receiving competitive bids.
CHAPTER 3: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
Article I. In General
   
3-1   Establishment of Municipal Court
   
3-2   Jurisdiction
   
3-3   Appointment; term; compensation; oath; residence
   
3-4   Clerk of court
   
3-5   Sessions of the court
   3-6—3-10   Reserved
Article II. Juries
   
3-11   Jury Commissioners, duties
   
3-12   Drawing jury list
   
3-13   Selection of jury from list
   
3-14   Return of ballots to box; subsequent drawings
   
3-15   Neglect, refusal to appear as juror
   
3-16   Neglect, refusal to appear as witness
   
3-17   Neglect, refusal of defendant to appear
   3-18—3-20   Reserved
Article III. Penalties and Fines
   
3-21   Penalties
   
3-22   Fines
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 3-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court of the city which all shall be
a part of the unified judicial system of the state.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-2 JURISDICTION.
   This Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to try all cases arising under
the ordinances of the city. The court shall also have all such powers, duties,
and jurisdiction in criminal cases made under state law and conferred upon
magistrates. The court shall have the power to punish for contempt of court by
imposition of sentences up to the limits imposed on municipal courts. The court
shall have no jurisdiction in civil matters.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-3 APPOINTMENT; TERM; COMPENSATION; OATH; RESIDENCE.
   (A)   A Municipal Judge must be appointed by the Council to serve for a term
set by the Council of not less than two years but not more than four years and
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. His or her compensation
must be fixed by the Council.
   (B)   Any person appointed Municipal Judge shall be deemed and required to
meet all requirements as an independent contractor during the term of such
appointment.
   (C)   The Council shall notify State Court Administration of any persons
appointed or reappointed as municipal judges.
   (D)   Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his or her office,
each judge shall take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by Article
VI, § 5 of the South Carolina Constitution and meet all requirements of S.C.
Code § 14-25-15 (D) and all other such provisions of law relating to the terms
and qualifications of municipal judges.
   (E)   A Municipal Judge shall not be required to be a resident of the
municipality by whom he or she is employed. A municipality may contract any
other municipality in the county or with the county governing body to employ
the municipal judge of the other municipality or a magistrate to preside over
its court.
   (F)   In case of vacancy in the office of municipal judge, a successor shall
be appointed in the manner of original appointment for the unexpired term. In
case of the temporary absence, sickness or disability of municipal judge, the
court shall be held by a judge of another municipality or by a practicing
attorney or some other person who has received training or experience in
municipal court procedure, who shall be designated by the Mayor and take the
prescribed oath of office before entering upon his or her duties.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-4 CLERK OF COURT.
   The Council may designate a clerk of court who shall keep such records and
make such reports as may be required by the Judge or the State Court
Administrator.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-5 SESSIONS OF THE COURT.
   The Council shall establish a regular place for the Court to hold its
sessions.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§§ 3-6—3-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. JURIES
§ 3-11 JURY COMMISSIONERS, DUTIES.
   The Town Council shall act as Jury Commissioners of the municipality or
shall appoint not less than three nor more than five persons to serve in lieu
thereof. Prior to January 30 of each year, the Jury Commissioners shall prepare
a “Jury Box” with two compartments, labeled A and B, respectively. The Jury
Commission shall place in Compartment A the names of all qualified electors of
the Municipality. The box shall then be locked and stored in a safe place.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-12 DRAWING JURY LIST.
   In all cases arising where a jury is demanded, the Judge shall then appoint
a person who is not connected with the trial who shall draw 30 names from the
Jury Box, Compartment A, and deliver a list of names to both the Attorney for
the municipality and the Attorney for the defendant.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-13 SELECTION OF JURY FROM LIST.
   (A)   The 30 names drawn from Compartment A of the Jury Box shall be placed
in a box, and the names drawn from the box by the appointed person. The names
so drawn shall be one of the jury, unless challenged by either party, until six
jurors and four alternates, which have not been challenged, are drawn. Neither
party shall have more than six challenges to jurors nor more than four to
alternates and such other challenges for cause as the court may permit.
   (B)   When any of the six, unchallenged, cannot be found or are disqualified
by law and the parties do not supply the vacancy by agreement, names shall be
randomly drawn from the Compartment A until sufficient jurors and alternates
are selected.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-14 RETURN OF BALLOTS TO BOX; SUBSEQUENT DRAWINGS.
   After a jury has been drawn, all the names drawn from Compartment A of the
Jury Box shall be placed in Compartment B of the Jury Box. When all of the
names in Compartment A are exhausted, all of the names from Compartment B shall
be transferred to Compartment A and, thereafter, juries shall be drawn as
provided in this article.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-15 NEGLECT, REFUSAL TO APPEAR AS JUROR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, refuse, or neglect to appear
before the Municipal Court after having been duly summoned to serve as a juror
therein, when lawfully required to do so.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-16 NEGLECT, REFUSAL TO APPEAR AS WITNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, refuse or neglect to appear
before the Municipal Court after having been duly summoned to give evidence in
any cause there pending for trial, or to refuse to testify as a witness, when
lawfully required to do so.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-17 NEGLECT, REFUSAL OF DEFENDANT TO APPEAR.
   When any person charged with an offense against municipal ordinances or laws
of this state shall be summoned to appear, and he or she has not already been
arrested and answered to said charges, and such person neglects, refuses, or
fails to appear at the time specified, the Municipal Court shall proceed with
the trial of said case as though the defendant were present.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§§ 3-18—3-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. PENALTIES AND FINES
§ 3-21 PENALTIES.
   If the Municipal Judge shall find a party guilty of violating an ordinance
or state law within the jurisdiction of his or her court, he or she may impose
a fine or imprisonment, or both, not to exceed $500 or 30 days, unless
otherwise provided in this code.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 3-22 FINES.
   All revenues arising from fines shall be turned over by the clerk of court
to the Treasurer of the municipality.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
CHAPTER 4: ANIMALS
Section
Article I. In General
   
4-1   Definitions
   
4-2   Dead animals; disposal
   
4-3   Resisting or hindering police and others
   
4-4   Driving and racing animals
   
4-5   Domestic animals and fowl at-large prohibited
   
4-6   Diseased animals restricted
   
4-7   Squirrels
   4-8—4-20   Reserved
Article II. Dogs
   
4-21   Definitions
   
4-22   Animal hospitals and veterinarians excluded
   
4-23   Noisy pets prohibited
   
4-24   Condition of dogs and pens
   
4-25   Rabies inoculation required; tags required
   4.26   Tampering with dog collar prohibited; tags to be current
   
4-27   Bitches in heat
   
4-28   Dangerous, vicious dogs
   
4-29   Running at-large
   4-30—4-50   Reserved
Article III. Livestock
   
4-51   Livestock prohibited
   
4-52   Keeping hogs prohibited
   
4-53   Animals declared to be a nuisance
   
4-54   Failure to abate nuisances
   4-55—4-70   Reserved
Article IV. Bird Sanctuary
   
4-71   Establishment of bird sanctuary
   
4-72   Unlawful interference with birds
   
4-73   Birds constituting a nuisance
Statutory reference:
   Definition of “service animal” for the purpose of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, see 28 C.F.R. § 36.104
   Disposition of strays, see S.C. Code § 47-3-60
   Duty to contact owners, see S.C. Code § 47-3-55
   Impoundment of strays, see S.C. Code § 47-3-40
   Metal inoculation tag required, see S.C. Code § 47-5-60
   Municipal authority to enact ordinances for care and control of dogs, cats
and other animals, see S.C. Code § 47-3-20
   Municipal powers not limited by state laws, see S.C. Code § 47-3-70
   Notice to Health Department of animal suspected of rabies, see S.C. Code §
47-5-80
   Required annual inoculation of pets against rabies, see S.C. Code § 47-5-60
   State falconry permit regulations, see S.C. Code § 50-9-675
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. All brute creatures and domestic pets.
   DOG. Includes all members of the canine family four months or more of age,
including foxes and other canines. All regulations shall apply within the
municipal limits.
§ 4-2 DEAD ANIMALS; DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who has possession, ownership or custody
of any animal that may die from any natural or other cause to permit such dead
animal to remain for a longer period than may be necessary under the
circumstances to remove such dead animal and under no condition longer than 24
hours shall be removed at the expense of the person in whose possession the
animal died.
§ 4-3 RESISTING OR HINDERING POLICE AND OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist, hinder or oppose any police
officer or any other person acting under their authority in the performance of
any of the duties imposed upon them by this chapter.
§ 4-4 DRIVING AND RACING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive horses or other animals at a
dangerous speed or to race horses or other animals on the public streets.
§ 4-5 DOMESTIC ANIMALS AND FOWL AT-LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit to run at-large on
the public streets or in public places any domestic animals or fowl, including
guineas, chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese and the like.
§ 4-6 DISEASED ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, bring, keep or maintain any
horse or other animal having the disease known as glanders, farcy or other
contagious or infectious disease, or any cow having a disease known as
tuberculosis; or to sell any milk, butter or other produce from any cow or
other animal affected with such disease or other contagious or infectious
disease within the corporate limits.
§ 4-7 SQUIRRELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill a squirrel within the corporate
limits; provided, however, squirrels which damage property, such as by entering
and damaging lofts or houses, may be exterminated upon proof to city officials
of such damage. Provided, further, that this exception shall not apply to the
annoyance of squirrels in yards or eating pecans from trees or from the ground.
§§ 4-8—4-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DOGS
§ 4-21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT-LARGE. Off the premises of the owner.
   OWNER. Any person, persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping
or harboring a domestic animal.
   PERSON. Includes any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
   PET. All domestic animals, including, but not limited to, dogs and cats and
is intended to mean both male and female. (See §
4-1 hereof for definition of dogs and animals.)
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Includes any dwelling, house, structure or building
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential or business
purposes whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant.
§ 4-22 ANIMAL HOSPITALS AND VETERINARIANS EXCLUDED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to animal hospitals or
kennels which now, or hereafter, may be maintained and operated by licensed
veterinarians on locations approved by the County Board of Health.
§ 4-23 NOISY PETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a pet, or any person who has custody
thereof, to allow said pet to make a noise to such an extent as to disturb his
or her neighbor’s peace. Such disturbance shall constitute a public nuisance.
§ 4-24 CONDITION OF DOGS AND PENS.
   All owners of dogs shall keep dog pens in a sanitary condition. No owner
shall be permitted to keep a diseased, mangy, badly sick or injured dog or
other pet unless the same shall be under the care of a registered veterinarian.
§ 4-25 RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED; TAGS REQUIRED.
   As required by S.C. Code § 47-5-60, as amended, all dogs within the
corporate limits shall be inoculated and shall wear a collar on which is
attached metal tags as proof of said inoculation, and owners of said dog shall
adhere to all rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
§ 4-26 TAMPERING WITH DOG COLLAR PROHIBITED; TAGS TO BE CURRENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person wrongfully to remove the collar from any
dog or to deface the same. Tags shall be for current year.
§ 4-27 BITCHES IN HEAT.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, or any person having the control of any
bitch to securely confine her and keep her concealed from view while she is in
heat. It shall be the duty of any police officer, if any such bitch if found
running at-large or in a public place, to notify the owner thereof or, if no
owner can be found, to impound such bitch at the County Pound.
§ 4-28 DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No dog with dangerous, vicious or fierce propensities or tendencies,
whether vaccinated against rabies or not, shall be at-large at any time within
the corporate limits, and it shall be unlawful for the owner or other person
having any such dog to permit the dog to be at-large.
   (B)   If any dog bites or attempts to bite any person while such dog is at-
large, then such dog shall be conclusively presumed to be a dangerous dog and a
dog of dangerous propensities and tendencies.
   (C)   If any dog attacks or attempts to attack any other dog or other animal
while such dog is at-large, or chases or otherwise attempts to catch a person,
then such dog shall be conclusively presumed to be a vicious dog and to have
vicious propensities and tendencies.
§ 4-29 RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   No dog shall be permitted to run at-large.
   (B)   All dogs found upon any of the public streets, or public places, or
upon private property owned by persons other than the owner or custodian of the
dog, and not under the immediate and direct supervision and control of the
owner, or a member of his or her immediate family, shall be deemed to be
running loose or to be “at-large” within the meaning of this article.
§§ 4-30—4-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. LIVESTOCK
§ 4-51 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   No livestock shall be kept within the corporate limits without specific
approval of the Council. No approval shall be granted or continued if such
keeping shall constitute a menace to health or welfare of the public.
§ 4-52 KEEPING HOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep or maintain hogs or pigs
within the corporate limits.
§ 4-53 ANIMALS DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE.
   Any fowl, bird or animal which shall by sound, odor or sight interfere with
materially or affect the health, comfort, peace or quiet of the people is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
§ 4-54 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCES.
   Any person harboring, keeping or possessing or having in custody or control
any fowl, bird or animal which constitutes a nuisance, as defined in this
chapter, who shall fail or refuse to take such action or do such things as will
abate such nuisance when requested in writing to do so by the Chief of Police,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§§ 4-55— 4-70 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. BIRD SANCTUARY
§ 4-71 ESTABLISHMENT OF BIRD SANCTUARY.
   The entire area situated within the corporate limits is hereby designated as
a bird sanctuary.
§ 4-72 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE WITH BIRDS.
   Subject to §
4-73 herein, it shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or
molest in any way any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests.
§ 4-73 BIRDS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers
in a particular locality that they constitute a menace to health or property,
in the opinion of the County Board of Health, the Council shall meet with said
health authorities to resolve the problem. If no satisfactory course of action
is found to abate such nuisance at such meeting, said birds may by destroyed in
such manner and in such numbers as is deemed advisable by said health
authorities under the supervision of the Administrator and as may be approved
by Council.
CHAPTER 5: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 6: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Article I. In General
   
6-1   State law provisions prevail
   
6-2   Nonresident contractors to obtain license
   
6-3   Licensed electricians, plumbers
   
6-4   Adoption of technical codes; modifications
   
6-5   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
   
6-6   Officials to enforce provisions of codes
   
6-7   Fees
   
6-8   Appeals
   
6-9   Utility connections
   
6-10   Alternate materials and alternate methods
   
6-11   Liability not assumed
   
6-12   Homeowner’s provisions
   
6-13   Ordinary repairs and maintenance authorized
   
6-14   Storage of bulk fertilizer, lime, landplaster and similar type
substances; penalties
   6-15—6-30   Reserved
Article II. Building Requirements
Division 1. Generally
   
6-31   Building permits
   
6-32   Industrial buildings; appeals
   
6-33   Permit for removal of building
   
6-34   Schedule of building permit fees
   
6-35   Fee required for moving of building or structure
   
6-36   Demolition of building or structure; bond and fee required
   
6-37   Building permits to include numbers assigned new structures
   6-38—6-50   Reserved
Division 2. Building Numbers
   
6-51   Geographical Location Department established
   
6-52   Numbering system to be developed
   
6-53   Church and Main Streets to serve as beginning point
   
6-54   Map to be prepared
   
6-55   Owners to be notified
   
6-56   Initial set of numbers to be furnished free of charge
   
6-57   Color, location and size of numbers
   
6-58   Responsibility for mounting and maintaining
   
6-59   Defective numbers
   
6-60   Repairs and replacement; fees
   
6-61   Penalties
   
6-62   Unsafe buildings defined
   
6-63   Unsafe buildings declared unlawful
   
6-64   Appointment of Building Official
   
6-65   Condemnation of unsafe buildings
   
6-66   Service of notice of hearing
   
6-67   Posting of unsafe buildings
   
6-68   Structures creating immediate danger
   
6-69   Demolition of unsafe buildings; lien for costs
   
6-70   International Property Maintenance Code
Statutory reference:
   Building codes amendment procedure, see S.C. Code § 8-240
   Codes applicable to building inspections, see S.C. Code § 6-9-130
   Dwellings unfit for human habitation, see S.C. Code §§ 31-15-10 et seq.
   Local adoption of building codes, see S.C. Code § 8-265
   Mandatory adoption of certain nationally recognized codes, see S.C. Code §
6-9-60
   Municipality may not enforce nationally recognized building code provisions
regulating farm structures, see S.C. Code § 6-9-65(B)
   Qualifications for building codes amendments, see S.C. Code § 8-245
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 6-1 STATE LAW PROVISIONS PREVAIL.
   Should any conflict arise between the provisions of this chapter and any
state law, rule or regulation, the provisions of state law shall prevail and be
controlling.
§ 6-2 NONRESIDENT CONTRACTORS TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for a contractor to commence any work until a business
license has been obtained therefor and all fees paid.
§ 6-3 LICENSED ELECTRICIANS, PLUMBERS.
   All electric and plumbing services, when not performed by the owner of the
property, shall be performed by electricians and plumbers licensed by the
state, unless otherwise authorized by the Council.
§ 6-4 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES; MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Official Building Code of the city shall consist of the following
codes as published:
      (1)   International Building Code, most recent edition, with South
Carolina modifications:
         (a)   Section 101.1, Insert: City of Bishopville; and
         (b)   Section 101.3, Delete.
      (2)   International Residential Code, most recent edition, with South
Carolina modifications:
         (a)   Section R101.1, Insert: City of Bishopville; and
         (b)   Section R103.3, Delete.
      (3)   International Fire Code, most recent edition, with South Carolina
modifications;
      (4)   International Plumbing Code, most recent edition, with South
Carolina modifications;
      (5)   International Mechanical Code, most recent edition, with South
Carolina modifications;
      (6)   International Fuel Gas Code, most recent edition, with South
Carolina modifications;
      (7)   International Energy Conservation Code, most recent edition;
      (8)   International Existing Building Code, most recent edition, with
South Carolina modifications;
      (9)   National Electric Code (NFPA 70), most recent edition; and
      (10)   International Property Maintenance Code (IMPC), most recent
edition, with the following modifications: Section 111, Means of Appeal, is
deleted in its entirety.
   (B)   The Council reserves the right to make modifications in said code, as
amendments thereto are promulgated by the issuing authority.
(Ord. 88-89-4, passed 6-6-1989; Ord. 01-02, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. 2019-02,
passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 2021-07, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 6-5 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   In the event any conflict arises between the codes listed in §
6-3 and any other state or city law, rule or regulation, the provisions of
state law, rule or regulation shall prevail and be controlling.
§ 6-6 OFFICIALS TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS OF CODES.
   Within said codes, when reference is made to the duties of certain officials
named therein, the official whose duties shall correspond thereto shall be
deemed to be the responsible official for enforcement.
§ 6-7 FEES.
   Fees for permits, services and inspections, when required, shall conform to
this chapter.
§ 6-8 APPEALS.
   Appeals from the decision of the Building Official shall be to the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.
§ 6-9 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   No supplier of water, gas or electric service shall initiate service to a
building, unless the owner thereof has been issued a building permit or
certificate of occupancy for the building.
§ 6-10 ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND ALTERNATE METHODS.
   The Building Official may authorize the use of alternate materials or
construction methods, provided the proposed design complies with the provisions
of the International Building Code.
§ 6-11 LIABILITY NOT ASSUMED.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
building, electrical, gas or plumbing equipment from damages to anyone insured
thereby, nor shall the city be held as assuming any such liability by reason of
inspection authorized herein or certificate issued.
§ 6-12 HOMEOWNER’S PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any homeowner from installing or
maintaining buildings, electrical wiring or plumbing within his or her own
property boundaries, provided such work is done by himself or herself and is
used exclusively by him or her or his or her family. Such privilege does not
convey the right to violate any of the provisions of this chapter, neither is
it to be construed as exempting any such property owner from obtaining a permit
and having work inspected.
§ 6-13 ORDINARY REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE AUTHORIZED.
   Ordinary minor repairs and general maintenance may be made without a permit,
provided such repairs do not violate any of the provisions of this code.
Examples of minor repairs and general maintenance shall include, but not be
limited to, painting, reroofing, carpeting and the like, subject to the
approval of the Building Official.
§ 6-14 STORAGE OF BULK FERTILIZER, LIME, LANDPLASTER AND SIMILAR TYPE
SUBSTANCES; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to store,
unload or deposit any bulk fertilizer, lime, landplaster or similar substance
in the following area of the city: all that property owned by Seaboard
Coastline Railroad between the intersection of North Main Street and Cedar Lane
west to the intersection of North Dennis Avenue and Cedar Lane.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned for 30 days for each
offense. Every 24-hour period shall constitute a new and separate offense.
§§ 6-15—6-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. BUILDING REQUIREMENTS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 6-31 BUILDING PERMITS.
   A permit shall be obtained and fees paid, as hereinafter provided, for each
and every job before the work is begun. Contractors or owners shall furnish
plans, specifications and cost of the contract or the job. No permit shall be
issued until a business license has been paid.
§ 6-32 INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS; APPEALS.
   No person, firm or corporation desiring to construct, erect or use a
building for industrial purposes shall do so without first applying for a
permit. If the permit is not approved, the applicant may appeal the decision to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
§ 6-33 PERMIT FOR REMOVAL OF BUILDING.
   No house or building shall be moved within the corporate limits until a
permit has been obtained therefor. The City Administrator shall not issue a
permit if, in his or her judgment, the proposed new location of the building
would seriously increase fire hazards of surrounding buildings.
§ 6-34 SCHEDULE OF BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The schedule of building permit fees shall be as determined from time
to time by ordinance, including, but not limited to, fee rates, criteria for
assessing rates and values and classifications.
   (B)   Where work for which a permit is required is started or proceeded with
prior to obtaining said permit, the fees, as determined from time to time by
ordinance, shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not
relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of this code in
the execution of the work from any other penalties prescribed herein.
§ 6-35 FEE REQUIRED FOR MOVING OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   For the moving of any building or structure, the fee shall be as determined
from time to time by ordinance.
§ 6-36 DEMOLITION OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE; BOND AND FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any owner of a building or structure (not including mobile homes; they
are treated like abandoned vehicles, no permit required) located in the
corporate limits of the city, and listed as such on the tax register, that
wishes to demolish said structure or building, must first obtain a permit from
the city and pay the required fee, as determined from time to time by
ordinance. The permit shall only be issued after the Building Official has
determined the time frame for said demolition and notified the owner of penalty
for noncompliance, as set forth in §
16-28. In no case shall this time frame exceed 90 days, and any request for an
extension must be approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Any person, contractor or firm not covered by subsection (A) above
that wishes to demolish any building or structure located in the corporate city
limits must first show proof of a performance bond or post a cash bond, the
amount of which is to be determined by the Building Official and based on the
construction type and the square footage of said structure. Also, the required
fee as determined from time to time by ordinance, and permit must be obtained.
Failure to complete demolition in the time frame allowed shall result in the
forfeiture of the bond in the amount needed for the city to complete the
demolition.
§ 6-37 BUILDING PERMITS TO INCLUDE NUMBERS ASSIGNED NEW STRUCTURES.
   Prior to the issuance of new structure permits, the Geographical Location
Department shall assign a number thereto, and said number shall be noted on the
building permit at the time of the issuance thereof.
§§ 6-38—6-50 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. BUILDING NUMBERS
§ 6-51 GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   In order to assure the orderly identification of residences, stores and
buildings within the corporate limits and beyond when connected to city water
and/or sewage lines, for the purposes of receiving mail, fire protection,
emergency medical services, taxation, geographical location and the like, a
Geographical Location Department is hereby established to be headed by a
director selected and appointed by the Administrator and consisting of such
additional employees as said Administrator may deem wise and necessary for the
proper and economical operation thereof.
§ 6-52 NUMBERING SYSTEM TO BE DEVELOPED.
   (A)   The Geographical Location Department shall be known as the “GLD” and
shall develop a plan, supervise and be responsible for the establishment of an
orderly system of numbering each and every building located within the
corporate limits and beyond when connected to city water and/or sewage lines,
including residences, stores, shops, storage sheds, warehouses, factories,
service stations and other structures, but excluding small sheds appurtenant to
major structures.
   (B)   Said number shall be determined and established by the geographical
location of the structure, within a specific block.
§ 6-53 CHURCH AND MAIN STREETS TO SERVE AS BEGINNING POINT.
   The numbering system shall begin at the intersection of Church and Main
Streets and proceed outwardly to the limits of the city, so that the structures
located nearest to said intersection shall have low numbers and those located
farther away shall have progressively higher numbers.
§ 6-54 MAP TO BE PREPARED.
   A map diagram of the numbering system shall be prepared and posted within
the municipal building or the Fire Department for observation by the public. An
index system shall be established and maintained by street number, by owner and
by occupant-tenant for cross-reference as needed.
§ 6-55 OWNERS TO BE NOTIFIED.
   The GLD shall notify in writing all known existing structure owners,
occupants and/or tenants of the number assigned to each respective structure.
Said notice shall be forwarded with the tax notice, mailed and/or personally
delivered as deemed appropriate.
§ 6-56 INITIAL SET OF NUMBERS TO BE FURNISHED FREE OF CHARGE.
   The GLD shall furnish the initial set of numbers, free of charge, and attach
the same to existing structures, upon request and/or with the consent of the
owner, occupant or tenant thereof.
§ 6-57 COLOR, LOCATION AND SIZE OF NUMBERS.
   The numbers shall be of a color that sharply contrasts with the predominant
color of the structure, and shall be located adjacent to the building’s main
entrance so as to be easily visible from the center of the adjacent street,
road or highway and shall be of not less than four inches high.
§ 6-58 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MOUNTING AND MAINTAINING.
   The responsibility of initially mounting and maintaining the structure
numbers shall be with the owner, occupant and/or tenant of the structure
jointly and severally.
§ 6-59 DEFECTIVE NUMBERS.
   Defective numbers lacking color contrast, of insufficient size, being
illegible and/or located so as to be difficult to spot or read from the center
of the adjacent street, road or highway, shall be repaired or replaced so as to
conform with the requirements herein within 30 days of written notification
mailed by the GLD to the occupant, tenant or owner at said street address.
§ 6-60 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT; FEES.
   Repair and replacement by the GLD, upon request of the occupant, tenant and/
or owner, will be made upon advance payment of a service fee. The fee for
repair is $3 and the fee for replacement is $5.
§ 6-61 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any one or more of the following shall be considered a violation:
      (1)   Lack of sharp color contrast;
      (2)   Insufficient letter size;
      (3)   Improper location;
      (4)   Lack of readability; or
      (5)   Failure of owner, tenant or occupant to repair or replace numbers
within 30 days, subsequent to the mailing of written notice.
   (B)   Any person, including, but not limited to, painters, carpenters and/or
other persons performing repairs, maintenance or service to or upon structures
who damage, remove or otherwise render the numbers non-viable shall be subject
to the penalties herein provided.
§ 6-62 UNSAFE BUILDINGS DEFINED.
   (A)   All buildings and structures which are structurally unsafe or not
provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard or which
otherwise present a danger to human life, are for the purposes of this article
hereby declared to be unsafe buildings.
   (B)   All unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and
shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this article.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 6-63 UNSAFE BUILDINGS DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
building or structure or part thereof which is an unsafe building, as herein
defined.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 6-64 APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The city appoints the County Code Enforcer as Building Official for the city
for the purpose of carrying out the abatement of unsafe buildings or
structures.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 6-65 CONDEMNATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The Building Official shall examine or cause to be examined every building
or structure, or portion thereof, reported as unsafe or damaged, and if such is
found to be an unsafe building, as defined in this article, he or she shall
issue a notice, notice of hearing and order directed to the owner of the
building or structure stating the defects found therein. The notice shall
require the owner of the building or premises, within 60 days after hearing, if
required by hearing officer, to commence either the required alterations,
repairs or improvements, or the demolition and removal of the building and
structure or portions thereof. All such work shall be completed within such
period of time as the Building Official shall determine to be reasonable to
accomplish the work, which period shall be stated in the notice. If necessary,
such notice shall also require the building, structure or portion thereof to be
vacated forthwith and not to be re-occupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected and approved by the Building Official.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013; Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 6-66 SERVICE OF NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The Building Official shall issue notice of hearing to landowners and
parties in interest. Service of the notice of hearing shall be made upon the
owner either personally or by:
   (A)   Mailing a copy of such notice of hearing, by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, to each owner of or party in interest as
shown by the public records; or
   (B)   (1)   If the whereabouts of such persons are unknown and cannot be
determined by the exercise of reasonable diligence and the Building Official
shall make affidavit to that effect, then service may be made upon such persons
by publishing a copy of the notice of hearing once a week for two consecutive
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. A copy of such notice
of hearing shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the building or structure
affected. A copy of such notice of hearing shall also be filed with the clerk
of court for the county.
      (2)   The hearing is held at a predetermined time with the County
Magistrate, or his or her successor, presiding. The Building Official and
parties of interest will present the case. The County Magistrate will issue
order to be carried out by parties of interest within 60 days. If the
whereabouts of such parties of interest are unknown and cannot be determined by
the exercise of reasonable diligence and the Building Official shall make
affidavit to that effect, then service may be made upon such persons by
publishing a copy of the order once a week for two consecutive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. A copy of such order shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the building or structure affected. A copy of
such order shall also be filed with the clerk of court for the county.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 6-67 POSTING OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The Building Official shall cause to be posted at each entrance of a
building declared to be unsafe the following notice: “Danger: this Building is
Declared Unsafe for Human Occupancy and Use and Occupancy is Prohibited.” Such
notice shall remain posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal
are completed. Such notice shall not be removed without written permission of
the Building Official, and no person shall enter this building except for the
purpose of making repairs or demolition of the building.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 6-68 STRUCTURES CREATING IMMEDIATE DANGER.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any building or
structure that has been determined to be an immediate danger to life, health,
safety or property shall be abated immediately in order to protect life,
health, safety or property. The Building Official may take whatever steps are
necessary to make the structure safe, including, but not limited to, the
demolition of the structure.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 6-69 DEMOLITION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS; LIEN FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the required repair or demolition is not commenced within 60
days after notice of the hearing officer’s order, the Building Official may
cause the building to be repaired to the extent required to render it safe, or
if the notice requires demolition, to cause the building or structure to be
demolished and all debris removed from the premises.
   (B)   The cost of repair or demolition may be recouped by the city from the
landowner by civil action. Any monies received from the sale of the materials
of such building shall be credited to the cost of demolition and the surplus,
if any, paid to the owner of record or other persons lawfully entitled thereto.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013)
§ 6-70 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, most recent edition, as
published by the International Code Council, is adopted with the following
modifications.
   (A)   Section 101.1, insert: “The City of Bishopville”;
   (B)   Section 103.5, insert: “Fees can be obtained from City Clerk”;
   (C)   Section 112.4, insert: “a minimum fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
and maximum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)”;
   (D)   Section 302.4, insert: “twelve (12) inches”;
   (E)   Section 304.14, insert: “April 1” and “November 1”;
   (F)   Section 602.3, insert: “November 1” and “April 1”;
   (G)   Section 602.4, insert: “November 1” and “April 1”; and
   (H)   Appendix A (Boarding Standards) adopted in its entirety.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 7: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 8: BUSINESSES
Section
Article I. In General
   
8-1   Price gouging in crisis; prohibited
   8-2—8-20   Reserved
Article II. Licensing
Division 1. Generally
   
8-21   License required
   
8-22   Definitions
   
8-23   Purpose and duration
   
8-24   Business license tax; refund
   
8-25   Registration required
   
8-26   Deductions, exemptions and charitable organizations
   
8-27   False application unlawful
   
8-28   Display and transfer
   
8-29   Administration of chapter
   
8-30   Inspection and audits
   
8-31   Assessments; payment under protest; appeal
   
8-32   Delinquent license taxes; partial payment
   
8-33   Notices
   
8-34   Denial of license
   
8-35   Suspension or revocation of license
   
8-36   Appeals to Council or its designee
   
8-37   Consent, franchise or license required for use of streets
   
8-38   Confidentiality
   
8-39   Violations
   
8-40   Severability
   
8-41   Classification and rates
   8-42—8-60   Reserved
Division 2. Telecommunications Services
   
8-61   License fee based on gross income
   
8-62   License rates, retail telecommunications services
   
8-63   Non-interference with franchise agreement obligations
   
8-64   MASC shall collect license taxes from telecommunications companies
   
Appendix A: Business License Rate Schedule
   
Appendix B: 2021 Business License Class Schedule by NAICS Code
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 8-1 PRICE GOUGING IN CRISIS; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be illegal in the city for any business to raise their prices on
any service or product an inordinate amount in relation to any crisis
situation. Penalty for this practice, known as price gouging, shall be arrest
and the revocation of the business license for the year in which the price
gouging occurred.
(Ord. 89-90-2, passed 9-25-1989)
§§ 8-2—8-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. LICENSING
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 8-21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession or activity engaged in with the object of gain, benefit
or advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of the city, is required to
pay an annual license tax for the privilege of doing business and obtain a
business license as herein provided.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business, calling, occupation, profession or activity engaged
in with the object of gain, benefit or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)
(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic or eleemosynary
purpose that does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer, officer,
director, trustee or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. The division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Bishopville.
   DOMICILE. A principal place from which the trade or business of a licensee
is conducted, directed or managed. For the purpose of this chapter, a licensee
may be deemed to have more than one DOMICILE.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued, for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a domicile within
the municipality, business done within the municipality shall include all gross
receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If the licensee does
not have a domicile within the municipality, business done within the
municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received or accrued
within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a business license
tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee’s GROSS INCOME, for
the purpose of computing the tax within the municipality, must be reduced by
the amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or municipality
and fully reported to the municipality. GROSS INCOME for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds or funds that are the property of a third party. The value of bartered
goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in GROSS INCOME. The gross
receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by
inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the
State Department of Revenue, the State Department of Insurance or other
government agencies. In calculating GROSS INCOME for certain businesses, the
following rules shall apply.
      (1)   GROSS INCOME for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered GROSS INCOME.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code § 38-7-20, GROSS
INCOME for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   (a)   GROSS INCOME for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of:
            1.   Gross revenues or receipts received or accrued from business
done at the location;
            2.   The amount of income allocated and apportioned to that
location by the business for the purpose of the business’s state income tax
return; or
            3.   The amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost
center of the business.
         (b)   Licensees reporting GROSS INCOME under this provision shall have
the burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by satisfactory
records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting a
manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this chapter.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary license official, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate license officials to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under S.C. Code § 58-9-
20 and S.C. Code §§ 38-7 and 38-45.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bishopville, South Carolina.
   NAICS. The North American Industry Classification System for the United
States published under the auspices of the Federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company, cooperative nonprofit membership, corporation, joint
venture, association, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
holding company or other group or combination acting as a unit, in the singular
or plural, and the agent or employee having charge or control of a business in
the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-23 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this chapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the General Fund through a privilege
tax. Except as set forth below for business licenses issued to contractors with
respect to specific construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued
for the 12-month period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for a
construction contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to expire
at the completion of the construction project; provided, that any such business
license may require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including,
but not limited to, a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then prevailing rate on the excess amount. The provisions of
this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from year to year as
amended by the Council.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-24 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX; REFUND.
   (A)   The required business license tax shall be paid for each business
subject hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
due date of April 30 in each year, except for those businesses in Rate Class 8
for which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in §
8-32 hereof, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1
without penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee’s gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee’s 12-month fiscal year preceding the due date or on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one year. The business license tax for a new business must be
computed on the estimated probable gross income for the balance of the license
year. A business license related to construction contract projects may be
issued on a per project basis, at the option of the taxpayer. No refund shall
be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before the June 1 immediately following the April
30 on which the payment was due and must be supported by adequate documentation
supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or deny the
refund request and, if approved, shall issue the refund to the business, within
30 days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-25 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, that a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the
annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of
the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol, beer or
wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of the
business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the State Revenue
and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information about the
applicant, the licensee and the business deemed appropriate to carry out the
purpose of this chapter by the license official. Applicants may be required to
submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns reflecting
gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation and
payment of business license taxes through the business license tax portal
hosted and managed by the State Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office, subject to
the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal availability
or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from existing business
license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-26 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the ordinance by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The license official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this chapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if: any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization, as
defined in this chapter; or any net proceeds of operation, after necessary
expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose,
as defined in this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond
fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee or person
with ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a necessary
expense of operation.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-27 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-28 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the license official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or nonresident
shall carry the license upon his or her person or in a vehicle used in the
business readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the
municipality.
   (B)   (1)   A change of address must be reported to the license official
within ten days after removal of the business to a new location, and the
license will be valid at the new address upon written notification by the
license official and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to
obtain the approval of the license official for a change of address shall
invalidate the license and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing
business without a license.
      (2)   A business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of
controlling interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and
the establishment of a new business requiring a new business license based on
old business income.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-29 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The license official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect business license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations
and audits to ensure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the Municipal Attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this chapter and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-30 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
license official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections and to examine and audit books and records.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any such person to fail or refuse to make
available the necessary books and records. In the event an audit or inspection
reveals that the licensee has filed false information, the costs of the audit
shall be added to the correct business license tax and late penalties in
addition to other penalties provided herein. Each day of failure to pay the
proper amount of business license tax shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The license official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with this chapter. Financial
information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed public
records, and the license official shall not release the amount of business
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or federal law or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by classifications
are public records.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-31 ASSESSMENTS; PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST; APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest and appeals of assessment shall be
allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing an assessment, the license official
may examine such records of the business or any other available records as may
be appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical surveys as the
license official may deem appropriate to assess a business license tax and
penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The license official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for adjustment
of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided, that for
particular types of business licenses, including without limitation for
business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under
S.C. Code § 58-9-20 and S.C. Code §§ 38-7 and 38-45, the municipality, by
separate ordinance, may establish a different procedure and may delegate one or
more rights, duties and functions hereunder to the Municipal Association of
South Carolina.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-32 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES; PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For nonpayment of all or any part of the correct business license tax,
the license official shall impose and collect a late penalty of 5% of the
unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid.
Penalties shall not be waived. If any business license tax remains unpaid for
60 days after its due date, the license official shall report it to the
Municipal Attorney for appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the license official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, that no
business license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax
due, with penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-33 NOTICES.
   The license official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-34 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license official may deny a license to an applicant when the
license official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation,
false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accident;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee or the person in control of
the business has been convicted within the previous ten years of an offense
under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving dishonest
conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a business, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee or the person in control of
the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee or the person in control of
the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
      (6)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
      (7)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied, suspended
or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the license official shall be subject to appeal as
herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-35 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license official may give written notice to the licensee or the
person in control of the business within the municipality by personal service
or mail that the license is suspended, pending a single hearing before Council
or its designee, for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should
be upheld, and the license should be revoked, when the license official
determines:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud,
misrepresentation, a false or misleading statement or evasion or suppression of
a material fact in the license application;
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any
tax or fee.
   (B)   The written notice of suspension and proposed revocation shall state
the time and place at which the hearing is to be held and shall contain a brief
statement of the reasons for the suspension and proposed revocation and a copy
of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-36 APPEALS TO COUNCIL OR ITS DESIGNEE.
   (A)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
8-31 hereof, which are governed by S.C. Code § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved by
a determination, denial or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the license official may appeal the decision to the Council or its
designee by written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the
license official within ten days after service by mail or personal service of
the notice of determination, denial or suspension and proposed revocation.
   (B)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial or other determination of
the license official and a hearing on a suspension and proposed revocation
shall be held by the Council or its designee within ten business days after
receipt of a request for appeal or service of a notice of suspension and
proposed revocation. The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular
or special meeting of the Council, or, if by designee of the Council, at a
hearing to be scheduled by the designee. The hearing may be continued to
another date by agreement of all parties. At the hearing, all parties shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to present testimony and evidence
and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings shall be recorded and
transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting. The rules of evidence
and procedure prescribed by Council or its designee shall govern the hearing.
Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members present, or
the designee of Council if the hearing is held by the designee, shall render a
written decision based on findings of fact and conclusions on application of
the standards herein. The written decision shall be served, by personal service
or by mail, upon all parties or their representatives and shall constitute the
final decision of the municipality.
   (C)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council or its designee does not
effectuate a stay of that decision. The decision of the Council or its designee
shall be binding and enforceable unless overturned by an applicable appellate
court after a due and timely appeal.
   (D)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under S.C. Code § 58-9-20 and S.C. Code §§ 38-7 and 38-45, the
municipality may establish a different procedure by ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-37 CONSENT, FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain or
operate in, on, above or under any street or public place under control of the
municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure or facility for utilities,
communications, Cablevision or other purposes without a consent agreement or
franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that prescribes the
terms, fees and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-38 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-39 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties and costs provided for in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-40 SEVERABILITY.
   A determination that any portion of this chapter is invalid or unenforceable
shall not affect the remaining portions. To the extent of any conflict between
the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the State Business License
Tax Standardization Act, as codified at S.C. Code §§ 6-1-400 et seq., said Act
shall control.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 8-41 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
chapter shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule, designated as
Appendix A to this chapter, which may be amended from time to time by the
Council.
   (B)   The current business license class schedule is attached hereto as
Appendix B. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd year, the
municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized business
license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of South
Carolina and adopted by the Director of the State Revenue and Fiscal Affairs
Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised business license class
schedule shall then be appended to this chapter as a replacement
Appendix B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, subsector, group or industry. The business license class
schedule (
Appendix B) is a tool for classification and not a limitation on businesses
subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most recent
version of the business license class schedule adopted by the Council that most
specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the business.
The license official shall have the authority to make the determination of the
classification most specifically applicable to a subject business.
   (D)   A copy of the class schedule and rate schedule shall be filed in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022)
§§ 8-42—8-60 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
§ 8-61 LICENSE FEE BASED ON GROSS INCOME.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, business
license taxes for retail telecommunications service as defined in S.C. Code §
58-9-2200, including, but not limited to, those services described in SIC 481
and NAICS 5133, shall pay an annual business license fee based on gross income.
   (B)   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 58-9-2220, the following business license tax
schedule shall apply to the gross income from retail telecommunications
services for the preceding calendar or fiscal year which either originate or
terminate in the municipality and which are charged to a service address within
the municipality regardless of where these amounts are billed or paid and on
which a business license tax has not been paid to another municipality. The
measurement of the amounts derived from the retail of mobile telecommunications
services shall include only revenues from the fixed monthly recurring charge of
customers whose service address is within the boundaries of the municipality.
      (1)   Rate for license taxes due in the years 1999 through 2003: 0.3% of
gross income for the preceding year.
      (2)   Rate for license taxes due in the year-2004 and each year
thereafter: 0.75% of gross income for the preceding year, or the maximum
permitted under state law, whichever is greater.
   (C)   For a business in operation for less than one year, the amount of
business license tax authorized by this section shall be computed on a 12-month
projected income.
(Ord. 99-06, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 8-62 LICENSE RATES, RETAIL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
   (A)   The rate for business licenses for retail telecommunications service
for 1999 shall be 0.3% of 1998 gross income, due on October 1, 1999, and
payable by January 31, 2000, without penalty.
   (B)   The telecommunications business license tax shall be due on January 1
in each year, beginning in the year 2000. Declining rates shall not apply.
Taxes are payable without penalty by January 31 following the due date. After
January 31, the delinquent penalty shall be 5% of the tax due for each month,
or portion thereof, after the due date until paid.
(Ord. 99-06, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 8-63 NON-INTERFERENCE WITH FRANCHISE AGREEMENT OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to interfere with
continuing obligations of any franchise agreement or contractual agreement in
the event that the franchise or contractual agreement should expire after
December 31, 2003.
   (B)   Fees imposed by any franchise or contractual agreement with a
telecommunications provider which expires prior to December 31, 2003 shall
continue in effect, until December 31, 2003.
   (C)   All fees collected under such franchise agreement or contractual
agreement shall be in lieu of fees or taxes which might otherwise be authorized
by this division.
   (D)   A business license tax ordinance, adopted prior to December 31, 1997,
which levied a business license tax paid by a telecommunications company higher
than that levied under this division, shall remain in effect through December
31, 2003.
(Ord. 99-06, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 8-64 MASC SHALL COLLECT LICENSE TAXES FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES.
   As authorized by S.C. Code § 5-7-800, the agreement with the municipal
association of the state for collection of current and delinquent license taxes
from telecommunications companies pursuant to S.C. § 58-9-2200 is approved and
the mayor is authorized to execute it.
(Ord. 99-06, passed 9-21-1999)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE RATE SCHEDULE
           Income: $0 - $2,000 Income over $2,000
Rate Class Base Rate           Rate per $1,000 or Fraction Thereof
           Income: $0 - $2,000             Income over $2,000
Rate Class Base Rate                       Rate per $1,000 or Fraction Thereof
8.1        $75                             $0.90
8.2        Set by state statute
8.3        MASC Telecommunications
8.4        MASC Insurance
8.51       $12.50 + $12.50 per machine
8.52       $12.50 + $180 per machine
8.6        $30 plus $5 or $12.50 per table $0.65
 
   NONRESIDENT RATES
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all taxes and rates shall be doubled
for nonresidents and itinerants having no fixed principal place of business
within the municipality.
   DECLINING RATES
   Declining rates apply in all Classes for gross income in excess of
$1,000,000, unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter.
 
Gross Income in $ Millions Percent of Class Rate for each additional $1,000
0-10                       100%
Over 10                    0%
 
   CLASS 8 RATES
   Each NAICS number designates a separate subclassification. The businesses in
this section are treated as separate and individual subclasses due to
provisions of state law, regulatory requirements, service burdens, tax
equalization considerations and other factors that are deemed sufficient to
require individually determined rates. In accordance with state law, the
municipality also may provide for reasonable subclassifications for rates,
described by an NAICS sector, subsector or industry, that are based on
particularized considerations as needed for economic stimulus or for the
enhanced or disproportionate demands on municipal services or infrastructure.
   Nonresident rates do not apply except where indicated.
8.1 NAICS 230000- Contractors, Construction, All Types (Nonresident rates
apply).
   Resident rates, for contractors having a permanent place of business within
the municipality:
 
Minimum on first $2,000 $75 plus
Each additional 1,000   $0.90
 
   Nonresident rates apply to contractors that do not have a permanent place of
business within the municipality. A trailer at the construction site or
structure in which the contractor temporarily resides is not a permanent place
of business under this chapter.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all state and
municipal qualification examination and trade license requirements have been
met. Each contractor shall post a sign in plain view on each job identifying
the contractor with the job.
   Sub-contractors shall be licensed on the same basis as general or prime
contractors for the same job. No deductions shall be made by a general or prime
contractor for value of work performed by a sub-contractor.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all performance and
indemnity bonds required by the Building Code have been filed and approved.
Zoning permits must be obtained when required by the Zoning Ordinance.
   Each prime contractor shall file with the license official a list of sub-
contractors furnishing labor or materials for each project.
   For licenses issued on a per-job basis, the total tax for the full amount of
the contract shall be paid prior to commencement of work and shall entitle the
contractor to complete the job without regard to the normal license expiration
date. An amended report shall be filed for each new job and the appropriate
additional license fee per $1,000 of the contract amount shall be paid prior to
commencement of new work. Only one base tax shall be paid in a license year.
Licensees holding a per-job license shall file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including,
but not limited to, a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount.
8.2 NAICS 482 - Railroad Companies. (See S.C. Code § 12-23-210.)
8.3 NAICS 517111, 517112, 517122 - Telephone Companies.
   With respect to “retail telecommunications services,” as defined in S.C.
Code § 58-9-2200, the municipality participates in a collections program
administered by the Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality
has approved participation in the collections program by separate ordinance
(the “Telecommunications Collections Ordinance”). The rates, terms, conditions,
dates, penalties, appeals process and other details of the business license
applicable to retail telecommunications services are set forth in the
Telecommunications Collections Ordinance.
8.4 NAICS 5241 and 5242 - Insurance Companies and Brokers.
   Independent agents, brokers and their employees are subject to a business
license tax based on their natural class. With respect to insurers subject to
license fees and taxes under S.C. Code § 38-7 and to brokers under S.C. Code §
38-45, the municipality participates in a collections program administered by
the Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality has approved
participation in the collections program by separate ordinance (the “Insurers
and Brokers Collections Ordinance”). The rates, terms, conditions, dates,
penalties, appeals process and other details of the business license applicable
to insurers and brokers are set forth in the Insurers and Brokers Collections
Ordinance.
8.51 NAICS 713120 - Amusement Machines, coin operated (except gambling).
   Music machines, juke boxes, kiddy rides, video games, pin tables with levers
and other amusement machines with or without free play feature licensed by
State Department of Revenue, pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(1) and (A)
(2) (Type I and Type II).
   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-21-2746.
 
Business license $12.50
Per machine      $12.50 plus
 
   Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by the state
as an operator pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass
8.51.
8.52 NAICS 713290 - Amusement Machines, coin operated, non-payout.
   Amusement machines of the non-payout type or in-line pin game licensed by
State Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(3) (Type
III).
   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-21-2720(B).
 
Business license $12.50
Per machine      $180 plus
 
   Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by the state
as an operator pursuant to § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass 8.52.
8.6 NAICS Code Varies - Billiard or Pool Tables.
   A business that offers the use of billiard or pool tables shall be subject
to business license taxation under its natural class for all gross income of
the business excluding the gross income attributable to the billiard or pool
tables. In addition, the billiard or pool tables shall require their own
separate business licenses pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2746 and shall be
subject to a license tax of $5 per table measuring less than three and one-half
feet wide and seven feet long and $12.50 per table longer than that.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 12-13-2023)
APPENDIX B
2021 BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
 
NAICS Sector/Subsector Industry Sector                Class
31 - 33                Manufacturing                  3
44 - 45                Retail trade                   1
48 - 49                Transportation and warehousing 1
Class 8                Subclasses
2023 Class Schedule is based on a three-year average (2017 - 2019) of IRS
statistical data
 
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 12-7-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-1-2022; Ord. 2023-05,
passed 12-13-2023)
CHAPTER 9: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 10: FAIR HOUSING
Section
Article I. In General
   
10-1   Title
   
10-2   Policy
   
10-3   Definitions
   
10-4   Purposes of law construction; effect
   10-5—10-20   Reserved
Article II. Discrimination Prohibited
   
10-21   Unlawful housing practices
   
10-22   Blockbusting
   
10-23   Exemptions from housing provisions
   10-24—10-40   Reserved
Article III. Administrative Enforcement
   
10-41   Provisions for enforcement
   
10-42   Conspiracy to violate this chapter unlawful
Statutory references:
   Fair Housing Act, see 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq.
   State Fair Housing Law, see S.C. Code §§ 31-21-10 et seq.
   Unlawful to discriminate in sale or rental of property, see S.C. Code § 31-
21-40
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 10-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Bishopville
Fair Housing Ordinance.”
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§ 10-2 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city that no person shall be discriminated against
in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§ 10-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any other
act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a person
or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability,
familial status or sex or the aiding, abetting, inciting, coercing or
compelling thereof.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Includes improved and unimproved property and means
a building, structure, lot or part thereof which is used or occupied as a home
or residence of one or more individuals.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. An individual who, on behalf
of others, for a fee, commission, salary or other valuable consideration, or
who with the intention or expectation of receiving or collecting the same,
lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents or leases real estate, or the
improvements thereon, including options, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate on behalf of others such an activity, or who advertises or holds
themselves out as engaged in such activities, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate on behalf of others a loan secured by mortgage or other encumbrances
upon a transfer of real estate, or who is engaged in the business of charging
an advance fee or contracting whereby he or she undertakes to promote the sale,
purchase, exchange, rental or lease of real estate through its listing in a
publication issued primarily for such purpose, or an individual employed by or
acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL ESTATE OPERATOR. Any individual or combination or individuals, labor
unions, joint apprenticeship committees, partnerships, associations,
corporations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock companies,
trust, incorporated organizations, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers or other
legal or commercial entity, the city, county or any of its agencies or any
owner of real property that is engaged in the business of selling, purchasing,
exchanging, renting or leasing real estate, or the improvements thereof,
including options, or that derived income, in whole or in part from the sale,
purchase, exchange, rental or lease of real estate or any individual employed
by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands,
tenements, leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums, mobile homes and
hereditaments or any interest in the above.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§ 10-4 PURPOSES OF LAW CONSTRUCTION; EFFECT.
   (A)   The general purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To provide for execution, within the city, of policies embodied in
Title VII of the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 2000e et seq.; and
      (2)   To safeguard all individuals within the city from discrimination in
housing opportunities because of race, color, religion, age, disability,
familial status, national origin or sex; thereby to protect their interest in
personal dignity and freedom from humiliation; to secure the county against
domestic strife and unrest which would menace its democratic institutions; to
preserve the public health and general welfare; to further the interests,
rights and privileges of individuals within the city.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to repeal any other
law of this city relating to discrimination because of race, color, religion,
age, disability, familial status, national origin or sex.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§§ 10-5—10-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED
§ 10-21 UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It is unlawful practice for a real estate owner or operator, broker,
salesperson or any individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, exchange, rent, lease or otherwise deny to or
withhold real property from an individual because of his or her race, color,
age, disability, familial status, religion, national origin or sex;
   (B)   To discriminate against an individual because of his or her race,
color, age, disability, familial status, religion, national origin or sex in
terms, conditions or privileges of the sale, exchange, rental or lease of real
property or in the furnishings of facilities or services in connection
therewith;
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to purchase, rent
or lease real property from an individual because of his or her race, color,
age, disability, familial status, religion, national origin or sex;
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, rental or lease of real property
to an individual because of his or her race, color, age, disability, familial
status, religion, national origin or sex;
   (E)   To represent to an individual that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, or to refuse
to permit an individual to inspect real property because of his or her race,
color, age, disability, familial status, religion, national origin or sex;
   (F)   To print, circulate, post, mail or cause to be printed, circulated,
posted or mailed an advertisement or sign, or to use a form of application for
the purchase, rental or lease of real property, or to make a record of inquiry
in connection with the prospective purchase, rental or lease of real property,
which indicates, directly or indirectly, a limitation, specification or
discrimination as to race, color, age, disability, familial status, religion,
national origin or sex or an intent to make such a limitation, specification or
discrimination;
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real property
for sale, rental or lease with the understanding that an individual may be
discriminated against in the sale, rental or lease of that real property or in
connection therewith because of race, color, age, disability, familial status,
religion, national origin or sex; or
   (H)   To otherwise deny or withhold real property from an individual because
of race, color, age, disability, familial status, religion, national origin or
sex.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§ 10-22 BLOCKBUSTING.
   It is an unlawful practice for a real estate owner or operator, broker or
salesperson; a financial institution, or an employee of any of these, or any
other person, for the purpose of inducing a real estate transaction from which
that person may benefit financially:
   (A)   To represent that a change has occurred or will or may occur in the
composition with respect to race, color, age, disability, familial status,
religion, national origin or sex of the owners or occupants in the block,
neighborhood or areas in which the real property is located; or
   (B)   To represent that this change will or may result in the lowering of
property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior or a decline in
the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood or area in which the real
property is located.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§ 10-23 EXEMPTIONS FROM HOUSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in §
10-21 shall apply:
      (1)   To the rental of housing accommodations in a building which
contains housing accommodations for no more than four families living
independently of each other, if the owner or family member of this family
resides in one of the housing accommodations;
      (2)   To the sale of single-family dwellings; provided, that a private
individual owner who does not own more than three such single-family houses,
does not advertise the sale or rental of such houses in a newspaper, magazine
or advertising circular and does not employ the services or a real estate
operator, broker or salesperson; or
      (3)   To the rental of one-room or one-room unit in a housing
accommodation by an individual if the owner or a member of the owner’s family
resides therein.
   (B)   A religious organization, association or society, or any nonprofit
institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society from limiting
the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other
than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving
preference to such persons, unless membership in such a religion is restricted
on account of race, color, age, disability, familial status, religion, national
origin or sex.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§§ 10-24—10-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
§ 10-41 PROVISIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The city shall receive and review any and all grievances concerning
discrimination in the provision of housing within the city limits and shall
forward all such grievances to the State Human Affairs Commission, P.O. Box
4490; 2611 Forest Drive, Suite 200; Columbia, South Carolina, 29240-4490.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993)
§ 10-42 CONSPIRACY TO VIOLATE THIS CHAPTER UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful practice for a person, or for two or more
persons to conspire:
      (1)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because
he or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because
he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or
participated in any manner in any investigation, proceedings or hearings under
this chapter;
      (2)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce a person to engage in any of
the acts or practices declared unlawful by this chapter;
      (3)   To obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the provisions
of this chapter or any order issued thereunder; or
      (4)   To resist, prevent, impede or interfere with the enforcing agent
(s), Housing Board or any of its members or representatives in the lawful
performance of duty under this chapter.
   (B)   All laws and clauses of law in conflict herewith are repealed to the
extent of such conflict.
   (C)   This chapter shall be effective as provided by law; provided, that it
shall cease to be effective upon receipt by the city of written notification
from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) that
HUD will not recognize this chapter, including any amendments thereto, to be
substantially equivalent to the provisions of the Federal Civil Rights Act of
1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq. so as to require HUD to refer housing
discrimination complaints to the city in accordance with federal law and
regulations.
(Ord. 22, passed 11-2-1993; Ord. 43, passed 11-2-1993)
CHAPTER 11: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 12: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Article I. In General
   
12-1   False alarms
   
12-2   Police officers to enforce provisions
   
12-3   Responding to alarms
   
12-4   Parking at hydrants; obstructing fire equipment or members
   
12-5   Following or parking near fire equipment; bystanders
   
12-6   Riding fire trucks
   
12-7   Failure to obey lawful orders
   
12-8   Use of fire equipment; damages prohibited
   
12-9   Driving over fire hose
   
12-10   Fire hydrants
   
12-11   Burning trash; bonfires
   
12-12   Fire hazard upon lots, buildings, premises; accumulation, growth and
the like
   
12-13   Building burned or destroyed more than half its value
   
12-14   “Official fire district” defined
   12-15—12-30   Reserved
Article II. Fireworks
   
12-31   Fireworks prohibited; penalty
   
12-32   Toy caps and similar devices excepted
   
12-33   Other exceptions
   
12-34   Permit required for public displays
   
12-35   Permissible fireworks for public displays
   
12-36   Permissible sale of fireworks
   
12-37   Sale to minors
   
12-38   Identification and marking
   
12-39   Retail handling and storage
Statutory reference:
   Local government may regulate explosive materials as or more strictly than
the state, see S.C. Code § 23-36-150
   Local permits for fireworks displays, see S.C. Code §§ 40-56-1 et seq.
   Municipal authority to equip and control Fire Department, see S.C. Code § 5-
25-20
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 12-1 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give a false fire alarm by
telephoning, informing any person that an emergency exists, knowing the same to
be untrue, or in any other manner, communicating falsely that an emergency
exists.
§ 12-2 POLICE OFFICERS TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   Police officers shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. Immediately
upon their arrival at the scene of a fire, and subject to availability of
personnel, they may station one police officer at each end of the block wherein
the fire occurs. They may require motor vehicles or other vehicles parked
within said block to be moved immediately.
§ 12-3 RESPONDING TO ALARMS.
   All motor equipment of the Police Department and the vehicles of
firefighters shall have the right-of-way over all other vehicles when
responding to an alarm.
§ 12-4 PARKING AT HYDRANTS; OBSTRUCTING FIRE EQUIPMENT OR MEMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle within 15 feet of a fire hydrant nor
otherwise cause any obstruction to fire equipment at a fire or at an entrance
to the fire station.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or obstruct the activities of
any member of the Fire Department who is acting in the line of duty at or
proceeding to a fire.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 56-5-2530
§ 12-5 FOLLOWING OR PARKING NEAR FIRE EQUIPMENT; BYSTANDERS.
   No driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to an alarm. Bystanders shall stay a safe distance away.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1960
§ 12-6 RIDING FIRE TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a member of the Fire
Department to ride upon any fire truck without permission from the Fire Chief.
§ 12-7 FAILURE TO OBEY LAWFUL ORDERS.
   Failure to obey any lawful order of any official of the Fire or Police
Department at the scene of any emergency shall constitute a violation of this
article.
§ 12-8 USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; DAMAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to use, borrow or
damage any equipment of the Fire Department without the express consent of the
Fire Chief.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, EQUIPMENT shall mean all vehicles,
firefighting apparatus, supplies, facilities or other material belonging to the
Fire Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, mutilate or otherwise to
damage or injure any hose or other firefighting apparatus.
§ 12-9 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without permission of the County Fire
Chief, to drive a vehicle of any description over or across a fire hose
stretched or laid upon the ground for use at a fire or for any other lawful
purpose of the Fire Department.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 56-5-3850
§ 12-10 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open or otherwise tamper
with a fire hydrant.
§ 12-11 BURNING TRASH; BONFIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any trash or to have a bonfire within the
corporate limits without first obtaining a permit from the County Fire Chief
and permission from the property owner.
§ 12-12 FIRE HAZARD UPON LOTS, BUILDINGS, PREMISES; ACCUMULATION, GROWTH AND
THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant, occupant, person
possessing, or any other person, to permit, allow or cause any condition,
accumulation, growth or structure, or other matter, to exist upon any lot,
building or premises so as to constitute or create a fire hazard, or to
increase the menace of fire.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Fire Chief, or his or her
authorized agents, to notify any person of a violation of this section and to
suggest proper action or precautions.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, within five days of such notice, to
eliminate said fire hazard shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 12-13 BUILDING BURNED OR DESTROYED MORE THAN HALF ITS VALUE.
   If an existing building is damaged by fire, deterioration or otherwise in
excess of 50% of its then physical value, said building shall be removed.
§ 12-14 “OFFICIAL FIRE DISTRICT” DEFINED.
   The official fire district shall be that as defined by ordinance and, when
so ordained, no wood construction shall be permitted therein.
§§ 12-15—12-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. FIREWORKS
§ 12-31 FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, shoot, discharge, offer for
sale, store, exchange, give away or possess any fireworks of any description,
except as provided in this article, within the corporate limits.
§ 12-32 TOY CAPS AND SIMILAR DEVICES EXCEPTED.
   For the purpose of this article, FIREWORKS shall not include toy paper
pistol caps which contain less than 0.25 grains of explosive compounds, toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices using paper caps and the sale,
and use of these items shall be permitted at all times.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code §§ 40-56-1 et seq.
§ 12-33 OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to: the manufacture, storage, sale or
use of signals necessary for the safe operation of railroads or other public or
private transportation; illumination devices for photographic use; the military
or naval forces of the state or United States; peace officers; the sale or use
of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or athletic events; nor as
applying to the transportation or use of fireworks solely for agricultural
purposes.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code §§ 40-56-1 et seq.
§ 12-34 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   Any person desiring to hold a public display of fireworks shall first secure
from the City Council a written permit to hold such display at least ten days
prior to the date of the proposed display. No permit shall be issued to allow
any public display of fireworks at any location whereby, in the judgment of the
Council, life or property may be endangered.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code §§ 40-56-1 et seq.
§ 12-35 PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS FOR PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the shipping, sale,
possession and use of fireworks for public displays. Such items of fireworks
which are to be used for public display only and which are otherwise prohibited
for sale and use shall include display shells designed to be fired from mortars
and display set pieces of fireworks classified by the regulations of the
Interstate Commerce Commission as “Class B Special Fireworks” and shall not
include such items of commercial fireworks as cherry bombs, tubular salutes,
repeating bombs, aerial bombs and torpedoes.
§ 12-36 PERMISSIBLE SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to possess, sell, offer for sale, store or
transport any fireworks other than the permissible fireworks enumerated in S.C.
Code §§ 40-56-1 et seq.
§ 12-37 SALE TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any permissible fireworks to
children under the age of 14 years who are not accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
§ 12-38 IDENTIFICATION AND MARKING.
   No common fireworks permitted in this article shall be sold, offered for
sale, possessed, stored or used, unless they shall be properly marked to
conform to the nomenclature thereof and unless it is certified as “common
fireworks” on all shipping cases and by imprinting on the article to be of
sufficient size and so positioned as to be readily recognized by law
enforcement authorities and the general public.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code §§ 40-56-1 et seq.
§ 12-39 RETAIL HANDLING AND STORAGE.
   The retail handling and storage of all permissible fireworks shall conform
to S.C. Code § § 40-56-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 13: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 14: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
Article I. In General
   
14-1   Statutory authorization
   
14-2   Findings of fact
   
14-3   Statement of purpose and objectives
   
14-4   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
14-5   Establishment of development permit
   
14-6   Compliance
   
14-7   Interpretation
   
14-8   Partial invalidity and severability
   
14-9   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
14-10   Penalties for violation
   14-11—14-30   Reserved
Article II. Definitions
   
14-31   Definitions
   14-32—14-40   Reserved
Article III. Administration
   
14-41   Designation of local Floodplain Administrator
   
14-42   Adoption of letter of map revisions
   
14-43   Development permit and certification requirements
   
14-44   Duties and responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator
   
14-45   Administrative procedures
   14-46—14-50   Reserved
Article IV. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
14-51   General standards
   
14-52   Specific standards
   
14-53   Standards for streams without base flood elevations and floodways
   
14-54   Standards for streams with base flood elevations but without floodways
   
14-55   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
   
14-56   Coastal high hazard areas (V-Zones)
   14-57—14-70   Reserved
Article V. Variance Procedures
   
14-71   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
14-72   Right to appeal
   
14-73   Historic structures
   
14-74   Functionally dependent uses
   
14-75   Accessory structures and agricultural structures
   
14-76   Considerations
   
14-77   Findings
   
14-78   Floodways
   
14-79   Conditions
   14-80—14-90   Reserved
Article VI. Legal Status Provisions   
   
14-91   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing ordinance
   
14-92   Effect upon outstanding building permits
   
14-93   Effective date
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 14-1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in S.C. Code Titles 5 and 6, and amendments
thereto, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-2 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all
of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Furthermore, these flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health,
minimize property damage and encourage appropriate construction practices to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that
uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction. Uses of the
floodplain which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water or
erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities or erosion, are
restricted or prohibited. These provisions attempt to control the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels and natural protective barriers which are
involved in the accommodation of floodwaters, and control filling, grading,
dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion.
   (B)   Additionally, this chapter prevents or regulates the construction of
flood barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase
flood hazards to other lands. The objectives of this chapter are to protect
human life and health, to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the
sound use and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize
flood blight areas and to ensure that potential home buyers are notified that
property is in a flood area. The provisions of this chapter are intended to
minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and gas
mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in the
floodplain, and prolonged business interruptions. Also, an important floodplain
management objective of this chapter is to minimize expenditure of public money
for costly flood control projects and rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding.
   (C)   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform
vital natural functions, such as temporary storage of floodwaters, moderation
of peak flood flows, maintenance of water quality, groundwater recharge,
prevention of erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations,
recreational opportunities and aesthetic quality. These functions are best
served if floodplains are kept in their natural state.
   (D)   Wherever possible, the natural characteristics of floodplains and
their associated wetlands and water bodies should be preserved and enhanced.
Decisions to alter floodplains, especially floodways and stream channels,
should be the result of careful planning processes that evaluate resource
conditions and human needs.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-4 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study, dated November 19, 2008, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data that are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. Upon annexation, any
special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) in its flood insurance study for the unincorporated areas of the
county, with accompanying map and other data, are adopted by reference and
declared part of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-5 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-6 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-7 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state law. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-8 PARTIAL INVALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this chapter is declared invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance codified herein shall not be affected and shall remain in force.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-9 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-10 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§§ 14-11—14-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
§ 14-31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). Structures that are located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal investment, may not be used for human habitation and be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure. ADDITIONS TO EXISTING BUILDINGS
shall comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to
whether the addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or
load-bearing wall is provided between the addition and the existing building,
the addition(s) shall be considered a separate building and must comply with
the standards for new construction.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes in
which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES are not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the local Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building that is below grade on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT. Development that is critical to the community’s public
health and safety, is essential to the orderly functioning of a community,
store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials, or house
occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or injury.
Examples of CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT include jails, hospitals, schools, fire
stations, nursing homes, wastewater treatment facilities, water plants and gas/
oil/propane storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of solid foundation perimeter walls,
pilings, columns, piers or shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before July 11, 1975.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before March 3, 1987.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency which contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary
floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without
sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any
material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water,
including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not FLOOD-RESISTANT.
Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable
flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation
from below and materials that are impervious but dimensionally unstable are not
acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after submergence
are not FLOOD-RESISTANT. Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-
Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 8, 2008, and available from the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced
therein, are acceptable FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIALS.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI)) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places;
and/or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified: by an
approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior; or directly
by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
      (2)   Some structures or districts listed on the state or local
inventories may not be HISTORIC as cited above, but have been included on the
inventories because it was believed that the structures or districts have the
potential for meeting the HISTORIC structure criteria of the DOI. In order for
these structures to meet NFIP historic structure criteria, it must be
demonstrated and evidenced that the State Department of Archives and History
has individually determined that the structure or district meets DOI historic
structure criteria.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Applies to all new and renewed flood
insurance policies effective on and after June 1, 1997. The NFIP shall enable
the purchase of insurance to cover the cost of compliance with land use and
control measures established under § 1361. It provides coverage for the payment
of a claim to help pay for the cost to comply with state or community
floodplain management laws or ordinances after a flood event in which a
building has been declared substantially or repetitively damaged.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items that can withstand exposure to the elements and have low flood
damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant or breakaway
material, void of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be
temperature controlled. If the area is located below the base flood elevation
in an A, AE and A1-A30 Zone it must meet the requirements of §
14-51(B)(4). If the area is located below the base flood elevation in a V, VE
and V1-V30 Zone, it must meet the requirements of §
14-56.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). An elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any deck support, exterior walls of a building or proposed building
walls.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For the purpose of this chapter, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVO) of 1988, or
other datum, to which the base flood elevations shown on a community’s flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) are shown.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD)OF 1929. As corrected in 1929,
elevation reference points set by National Geodetic Survey based on mean sea
level.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) OF 1988. Vertical control, as corrected
in 1988, used as the reference datum on flood insurance rate maps.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structure for which the start of construction commenced on
or after March 3, 1987. The term also includes any subsequent improvements to
such structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after March 3,
1987.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. A building covered by a contract for flood insurance that
has incurred flood-related damages on two occasions during a ten-year period
ending on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in which the
cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the building at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316 OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968. The act provides
that no new flood insurance shall be provided for any property found by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to have been declared by a state or local
authority to be in violation of state or local ordinances.
   STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION. The first place on the oceanfront where plants,
such as sea oats, hold sand in place.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, including a
gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Such repairs may be undertaken successively and their costs counted
cumulatively. Please refer to the definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project of improvement to a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure. Permits shall be cumulative for a period of five years. If
the improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs
associated with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit,
shall be utilized to determine whether SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT will occur.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from a term or terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§§ 14-32—14-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATION
§ 14-41 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator and/or his or her designee is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-42 ADOPTION OF LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS.
   All LOMRs that are issued in the areas identified in §
14-4 are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-43 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Development permit. Application for a development permit shall be made
to the local Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to
any development activities. The development permit may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing: the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; and the location of fill materials, storage areas and drainage
facilities. Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour or a
statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain must be provided by the
development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within the
floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either the duties and responsibilities of the
local Floodplain Administrator of §
14-44(K) or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
14-52 and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations and
floodways of §
14-53. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by it. The plot
plan must show the floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the floodway identified pursuant to either the duties or
responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator of §
14-44(K) or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
14-52(L) and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations
and floodways of §
14-53.
      (2)   Where base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §
14-4, or the duties and responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator
of §
14-44(K) the application for a development permit within the flood hazard area
shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure will be floodproofed in accordance with the
nonresidential construction requirements of §
14-52(B), the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure
will be floodproofed.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation data is not provided as set forth in §
14-4, or the duties and responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator
of §
14-44(K), then the provisions in the standards for streams without estimated
base flood elevations and floodways of §
14-53 must be met.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourse: Where any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development, the application for a
development permit shall include a description of the extent of watercourse
alteration or relocation, an engineering study to demonstrate that the flood-
carrying capacity of the altered or relocated watercourse is maintained and a
map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Certifications.
      (1)   Floodproofing certification. When a structure is floodproofed, the
applicant shall provide certification from a registered, professional engineer
or architect that the nonresidential, floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in the nonresidential construction requirements of §§
14-52(B) and 14-55(B)(2).
      (2)   Certification during construction. A lowest floor elevation or
floodproofing certification is required after the lowest floor is completed. As
soon as possible after completion of the lowest floor and before any further
vertical construction commences, or floodproofing by whatever construction
means, whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the local Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation
of the lowest floor, or floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable, as
built, in relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by it. Any work done prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The local Floodplain
Administrator shall review the floor elevation survey data submitted. The
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed shall correct deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to
submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   V-Zone certification. When a structure is located in Zones V, VE or
V1-30, certification shall be provided from a registered professional engineer
or architect, separate from submitted plans, that new construction and
substantial improvement meets the criteria for the coastal high hazard areas
outlined in §
14-56(B)(5).
      (4)   As-built certification. Upon completion of the development a
registered professional engineer, land surveyor or architect, in accordance
with state law, shall certify according to the requirements of §
14-43(B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) that the development is built in accordance with
the submitted plans and previous pre-development certifications.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-44 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Requirement of federal and/or state permits. Review proposed
development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of 1972,
33 U.S.C. § 1344;
   (C)   Watercourse alterations.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Natural
Resources, Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
      (2)   In addition to the notifications required watercourse alterations
per subsection (C)(1) above, written reports of maintenance records must be
maintained to show that maintenance has been provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained. This maintenance must consist of a comprehensive program of
periodic inspections, and routine channel clearing and dredging, or other
related functions. The assurance shall consist of a description of maintenance
activities, frequency of performance and the local official responsible for
maintenance performance. Records shall be kept on file for FEMA inspection;
      (3)   If the proposed project will modify the configuration of the
watercourse, floodway or base flood elevation for which a detailed flood
insurance study has been developed, the applicant shall apply for and must
receive approval for a conditional letter of map revision with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency prior to the start of construction; and
      (4)   Within 60 days of completion of an alteration of a watercourse,
referenced in the certification requirements of §
14-43(B)(4), the applicant shall submit as-built certification, by a registered
professional engineer, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Floodway encroachments. Prevent encroachments within floodways unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
14-52(E) are met;
   (E)   Adjoining floodplains. Cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to the management of adjoining floodplains and/or flood-related erosion
areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards;
   (F)   Notifying adjacent communities. Notify adjacent communities prior to
permitting substantial commercial developments and large subdivisions to be
undertaken in areas of special flood hazard and/or flood-related erosion
hazards;
   (G)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Obtain and review actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with administrative procedures outlined in §
14-43(B)(2) or the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined in §
14-56(B)(5);
      (2)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the floodproofing certification outlined in §
14-43(B)(1);
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the nonresidential construction requirements outlined in §
14-52(B); and
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined
in §
14-56(B)(4), (B)(6) and (B)(8).
   (H)   Map interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this article;
   (I)   Prevailing authority. Where a map boundary showing an area of special
flood hazard and field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations for flood
protection elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table
and the like) shall prevail. The correct information should be submitted to
FEMA as per the map maintenance activity requirements outlined in §
14-52(G)(2);
   (J)   Use of best available data. When base flood elevation data and
floodway data has not been provided in accordance with §
14-4, obtain, review and reasonably utilize best available base flood elevation
data and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source,
including data developed pursuant to the standards for subdivision proposals
outlined in §
14-52(L), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. Data from
preliminary, draft and final flood insurance studies constitutes best available
data from a federal, state or other source. Data must be developed using
hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirement of NFIP-approved model. If an
appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, parts
67.5 and 67.6, the data does not have to be used;
   (K)   Special flood hazard area/topographic boundaries conflict. When the
exact location of boundaries of the areas special flood hazards conflict with
the current, natural topography information at the site; the site information
takes precedence when the lowest adjacent grade is at or above the BFE, the
property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment (LOMA)
by FEMA. The local Floodplain Administrator in the permit file will maintain a
copy of the letter of map amendment issued from FEMA;
   (L)   On-site inspections. Make on-site inspections of projects in
accordance with the administrative procedures outlined in §
14-45(A);
   (M)   Administrative notices. Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work
orders, revoke permits and take corrective actions in accordance with the
administrative procedures in §
14-45;
   (N)   Records maintenance. Maintain all records pertaining to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
   (O)   Annexations and detachments. Notify the State Department of Natural
Resources Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program within six months of any annexations or
detachments that include special flood hazard areas;
   (P)   Federally funded development. The President issued Executive Order
11988, Floodplain Management May 1977. E.O. 11988 directs federal agencies to
assert a leadership role in reducing flood losses and losses to environmental
values served by floodplains. Proposed developments must go through an eight-
step review process. Evidence of compliance with the executive order must be
submitted as part of the permit review process;
   (Q)   Substantial damage determination. Perform an assessment of damage from
any origin to the structure using FEMA’s Residential Substantial Damage
Estimator (RSDE) software to determine if the damage equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred; and
   (R)   Substantial improvement determinations. Perform an assessment of
permit applications for improvements or repairs to be made to a building or
structure that equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the start of construction. Cost of work counted for determining if and
when substantial improvement to a structure occurs shall be cumulative for a
period of five years. If the improvement project is conducted in phases, the
total of all costs associated with each phase, beginning with the issuance of
the first permit, shall be utilized to determine whether “substantial
improvement” will occur. The market values shall be determined by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   The current assessed building value as determined by the County
Assessor’s office or the value of an appraisal performed by a licensed
appraiser at the expense of the owner within the past six months;
      (2)   One or more certified appraisals from a registered professional
licensed appraiser in accordance with the laws of the state. The appraisal
shall indicate actual replacement value of the building or structure in its
pre-improvement condition, less the cost of site improvements and depreciation
for functionality and obsolescence; and
      (3)   Real estate purchase contract within six months prior to the date
of the application for a permit.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-45 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the local Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections
of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according
to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In
exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The
stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.
The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reasons for the stoppage and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits. The local Floodplain Administrator may revoke
and require the return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder
in writing, stating the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections. The local Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected. When the local Floodplain Administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law on the
property he or she owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give him or her written notice, by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service, that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the local Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the local Floodplain Administrator may issue
such order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within such period, not less than 60 days, the
Floodplain Administrator may prescribe; provided, that where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm
or revoke the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in the discretion of the court.
   (J)   Denial of flood insurance under the NFIP. If a structure is declared
in violation of this chapter, and after all other penalties are exhausted to
achieve compliance with this chapter, then the local Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to initiate § 1316
of the National Flood insurance Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.
action against the structure upon the finding that the violator refuses to
bring the violation into compliance with the ordinance. Once a violation has
been remedied the local Floodplain Administrator shall notify FEMA of the
remedy and ask that § 1316 be rescinded.
   (K)   FEMA documents. The following documents are incorporated by reference
and may be used by the local Floodplain Administrator to provide further
guidance and interpretation of this chapter as found on FEMA’s website at
www.fema.gov:
      (1)   FEMA 55 Coastal Construction Manual;
      (2)   All FEMA Technical Bulletins;
      (3)   All FEMA Floodplain Management Bulletins;
      (4)   FEMA 348 Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damage; and
      (5)   FEMA 499 Home Builder’s Guide to Coastal Construction Technical
Fact Sheets.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§§ 14-46—14-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 14-51 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Development may not occur in the special flood hazard area (SFHA)
where alternative locations exist due to the inherent hazards and risks
involved. Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new
structures cannot be located out of the SFHA and that encroachments onto the
SFHA are minimized.
   (B)   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are
required.
      (1)   Reasonably safe from flooding. All permit applications shall be
reviewed to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      (2)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the
structure.
      (3)   Flood resistant materials and equipment. All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with flood-resistant materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance with Technical
Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 8,
2008, and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (4)   Minimize flood damage. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages.
      (5)   Critical development. Critical developments shall be elevated to
the 500-year flood elevation or be elevated to the highest known historical
flood elevation (where records are available), whichever is greater. If no data
exists establishing the 500-year flood elevation or the highest known
historical flood elevation, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis that generates 500-year flood elevation data.
      (6)   Utilities. Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall
be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of the base flood plus two feet
(freeboard).
      (7)   Water supply systems. All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system.
      (8)   Sanitary sewage systems. New and replacement sanitary sewage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters. On-site
waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (9)   Gas or liquid storage tanks. All gas or liquid storage tanks,
either located above ground or buried, shall be anchored to prevent floatation
and lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
      (10)   Alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements. Any
alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure that is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the requirements of
“new construction” as contained in this chapter. This includes post-FIRM
development and structures.
      (11)   Nonconforming buildings or uses. Nonconforming buildings or uses
may not be enlarged, replaced or rebuilt unless such enlargement or
reconstruction is accomplished in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. Provided, however, nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction or replacement of an existing building or structure located
totally or partially within the floodway, provided that the bulk of the
building or structure below base flood elevation in the floodway is not
increased and provided that such repair, reconstruction or replacement meets
all of the other requirements of this chapter.
      (12)   American with Disabilities Act (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq. A building must meet the specific standards for floodplain construction
outlined in §
14-52, as well as any applicable ADA requirements. The ADA is not justification
for issuing a variance or otherwise waiving these requirements. Also, the cost
of improvements required to meet the ADA provisions shall be included in the
costs of the improvements for calculating substantial improvement.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-52 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard (Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A 1-30, V and VE)
where base flood elevation data has been provided, as set forth in §
14-4 or outlined in the duties and responsibilities of the local Floodplain
Administrator in §
14-44, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation. No
basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in subsection (D) below.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or nonresidential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in subsection (D) below. No basements are permitted.
Structures located in A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure below the required elevation are watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered, professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection (B) are satisfied. Such certifications shall
be provided to the official as set forth in the floodproofing certification
requirements in §
14-43(B)(1). A variance may be considered for wet-floodproofing agricultural
structures in accordance with the criteria outlined in §
14-75. Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of §
14-75 must meet the nonresidential construction standards and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Structures that are floodproofed are
required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual exercise. The
local Floodplain Administrator must approve the maintenance plan and
notification of the annual exercise shall be provided to it.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated no lower than two feet above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions for residential construction in subsection (A) above
must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated
no lower two feet than above the base flood elevation, and be securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
and lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in
accordance with § 40-29-10 of the State Manufactured Housing Board Regulations,
as amended. Additionally, when the elevation requirement would be met by an
elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade at the site, the
chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When
the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the local Floodplain Administrator and
the local Emergency Preparedness Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building access or limited
storage in an area other than a basement, and which are subject to flooding
shall be designed to preclude finished space and be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.
      (1)   Designs. Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed all of the
following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings on different walls having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding must be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of each opening must be no more than one foot above
the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the opening.
         (c)   Only the portions of openings that are below the base flood
elevation (BFE) can be counted towards the required net open area.
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      (2)   Hazardous velocities. Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in
the design of any foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for
debris flow exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five feet
per second), foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should be
considered so that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      (3)   Enclosures below lowest floor.
         (a)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (b)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms, must be void of utilities except for
essential lighting as required for safety and cannot be temperature controlled.
         (c)   One wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground
fault interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in subsections (A), (B)
and (C) above.
         (d)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in subsections (A), (B),
(C) and (D) above should be of flood-resistant materials.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
14-4 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and potential
projectiles and has erosion potential. The following provisions shall apply
within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood. Such certification and technical data
shall be presented to the local Floodplain Administrator; and
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision must be obtained upon completion of the
proposed development.
      (2)   If subsection (E)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
14-51 through 14-56.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection (C) above and the
encroachment standards of subsection (E)(1) above are met.
      (4)   Permissible uses within floodways may include general farming,
pasture, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry, wildlife sanctuary,
game farm and other similar agricultural, wildlife and related uses. Also,
lawns, gardens, play areas, picnic grounds and hiking and horseback riding
trails are acceptable uses, provided that they do not employ structures or
fill. Substantial development of a permissible use may require a no-impact
certification. The uses listed in this subsection (E)(4) are permissible only
if and to the extent that they do not cause any increase in base flood
elevations or changes to the floodway configuration.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is:
         (a)   On wheels or jacking system;
         (b)   Attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and
security devices; and
         (c)   Has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either be:
         (a)   On-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet the
development permit and certification requirements of §
14-44, general standards outlined in §
14-51 and manufactured homes standards in subsections (C) and (D) above.
   (G)   Map maintenance activities. The National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) requires flood data to be reviewed and approved by FEMA. This ensures
that flood maps, studies and other data identified in §
14-4 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data. The following map maintenance
activities are identified.
      (1)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
         (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations
or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical or
scientific data reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA as soon as
practicable, but no later than six months of the date such information becomes
available. These development proposals include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            2.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
            3.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
            4.   Subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
14-53(B)(1).
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical
data, required in accordance with this subsection (G), prepared in a format
required for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
also be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (c)   The local Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional
letter of map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit
for:
            1.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
            2.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation
by more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations
but no floodway.
         (d)   Floodplain development permits issued by the local Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this subsection (G).
      (2)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator
may request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that
does not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations,
such as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the local jurisdiction
and may be submitted at any time.
   (H)   Accessory structures. Detached accessory structures used only for
parking of vehicles and storage are permitted at grade if:
      (1)   In special flood hazard areas other than coastal high hazard areas
(Zones A, AE, AH, AO and A 1-30), they are not larger than one-story and 600
square feet in area. Walls must have openings in compliance with subsection (D)
(1) above;
      (2)   In coastal high hazard areas (Zones V, VE, V1-30 and VO), they are
not larger than 100 square feet and in compliance with §
14-56;
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
      (4)   Flood damage resistant materials used below the base elevation in
accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage Resistant Materials
Requirement;
      (5)   Mechanical, electrical and utility equipment comply with the
requirements of §
14-51(B)(6);
      (6)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential; and
      (7)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   (I)   Swimming pool utility equipment rooms. If the building cannot be built
at or above the BFE, because of functionality of the equipment then a structure
to house the utilities for the pool may be built below the BFE with the
following provisions:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for accessory structures in subsection (H)
above; and
      (2)   The utilities must be anchored to prevent flotation and shall be
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   (J)   Elevators.
      (1)   Install a float switch system or another system that provides the
same level of safety necessary for all elevators where there is a potential for
the elevator cab to descend below the BFE during a flood per FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin for Elevator Installation.
      (2)   All equipment that may have to be installed below the BFE, such as
counter-weight roller guides, compensation cable and pulleys and oil buffers
for traction elevators and the jack assembly for a hydraulic elevator, must be
constructed using flood-resistant materials where possible per FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin 4 Elevator Installation.
   (K)   Fill. An applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative
to raising the building to meet the residential and nonresidential construction
requirements of subsections (A) or (B) above, and that the amount of fill used
will not affect the flood storage capacity or adversely affect adjacent
properties. The following provisions shall apply to all fill placed in the
special flood hazard area.
      (1)   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance
with the requirements in subsection (E)(1) above.
      (2)   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits.
      (3)   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. A registered
professional geotechnical engineer may use dredged material as fill only upon
certification of suitability. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps and sanitary fills
are not permitted in the floodplain.
      (4)   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-
698, and its suitability to support structures certified by a registered,
professional engineer.
      (5)   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two horizontals to one
vertical. Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in
erosion.
      (6)   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage
problems on neighboring properties.
      (7)   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high
hazard areas.
      (8)   Will meet the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01,
Ensuring that Structures Built on Fill in or near Special Flood Hazard Areas
are Reasonably Safe from Flooding.
   (L)   Standards for subdivision proposals and other development.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in subsection (G) above when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is
completed that generates base flood elevations.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-53 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard (Zones A and V)
established in §
14-4 are small streams where no base flood data has been provided and where no
floodways have been identified.
   (B)   The following provisions apply within such areas.
      (1)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation
data are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
      (2)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and new development shall be permitted within 100 feet of the
stream bank unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
      (3)   If subsection (B)(1) above is satisfied and base flood elevation
data is available from other sources, all new construction and substantial
improvements within such areas shall comply with all applicable provisions of
this article and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with
elevations established in accordance with §
14-45(K).
      (4)   Data from preliminary, draft and final flood insurance studies
constitutes best available data. Refer to FEMA Floodplain Management Bulletin
1-98 Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available Data. If an appeal is
pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, parts 67.5 and
67.6, the data does not have to be used.
      (5)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source, one of the following methods may be used to
determine a BFE for further information regarding the methods for determining
BFEs listed below, refer to FEMA’s “Manual Managing Floodplain Development in
Approximate Zone and Areas:”
         (a)   Contour interpolation.
            1.   Superimpose approximate Zone A boundaries onto a topographic
map and estimate a BFE; and
            2.   Add one-half of the contour interval of the topographic map
that is used to the BFE.
         (b)   Data extrapolation. A BFE can be determined if a site within 500
feet upstream of a reach of a stream reach for which a 100-year profile has
been computed by detailed methods, and the floodplain and channel bottom slope
characteristics are relatively similar to the downstream reaches. No hydraulic
structures shall be present; and
         (c)   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations. Perform hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine BFEs using FEMA approved methods and
software.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-54 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT WITHOUT FLOODWAYS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
but no floodway is identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in
the FIS, no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or other development shall be permitted unless certification with
supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-55 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
14-4, are areas designated as shallow flooding. The following provisions shall
apply within such areas.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall
be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be
elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade;
      (2)   Be completely floodproofed together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities to or above that level so that any space below that level
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as stated
in §
14-44; and
      (3)   All structures on slopes must have drainage paths around them to
guide water away from the structures.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-56 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (V-ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
14-4 or §
14-45(K) are areas designated as coastal high hazard areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with wave wash.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply within such areas.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be located
landward of the reach of mean high tide, first line of stable natural
vegetation and comply with all applicable Department of Health and
Environmental Control (DHEC) Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM)
setback requirements.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated
so that the bottom of the lowest supporting horizontal structural member
(excluding pilings or columns) of the lowest floor is located no lower than
three feet above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   All buildings or structures shall be securely anchored on pilings
or columns, extending vertically below a grade of sufficient depth and the zone
of potential scour and securely anchored to the subsoil strata.
      (4)   All pilings and columns and the attached structures shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, lateral movement and scour due to the
effect of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building
components.
      (5)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in subsections (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6) and (B)(9) of
this section.
      (6)   There shall be no fill used as structural support. Non-compacted
fill may be used around the perimeter of a building for landscaping/aesthetic
purposes provided the fill will wash out from storm surge, thereby rendering
the building free of obstruction prior to generating excessive loading forces,
ramping effects or wave deflection. Only beach compatible sand may be used. The
local Floodplain Administrator shall approve design plans for landscaping/
aesthetic fill only after the applicant has provided an analysis by an
engineer, architect and/or soil scientist that demonstrates that the following
factors have been fully considered:
         (a)   Particle composition of fill material does not have a tendency
for excessive natural compaction;
         (b)   Volume and distribution of fill will not cause wave deflection
to adjacent properties; and
         (c)   Slope of fill will not cause wave run-up or ramping.
      (7)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes that would increase
potential flood damage.
      (8)   All new construction and substantial improvements have the space
below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed with non-
supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work or insect screening intended
to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse, displacement
or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the building or
supporting foundation system. For the purpose of this section, a breakaway wall
shall have a design safe loading resistance of not less than one and no more
than 20 pounds per square foot. Breakaway wall enclosures shall not exceed 299
square feet. Only flood-resistant materials shall be used below the required
flood elevation specified in §
14-52. One wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground fault
interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in §
14-52. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading resistance of
20 pounds per square foot may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the following
conditions.
         (a)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood.
         (b)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and nonstructural). The water loading shall be
those values associated with the base flood. The wind loading values shall be
those required by applicable IBC International Building Code.
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be useable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage. Such space shall not be used for human
habitation, finished or partitioned into multiple rooms or temperature-
controlled.
      (9)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of §
14-52(C).
      (10)   Recreational vehicles shall be permitted in coastal high hazard
areas provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
14-52(F) and the temporary structure provisions of subsection (B)(11) below.
      (11)   Accessory structures below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in subsection (B)(2) above, are prohibited except for the following:
         (a)   Structures 100 square feet or less and in accordance with §
14-52(H);
         (b)   Swimming pools, provided:
            1.   They are installed at-grade or elevated so long as the pool
will not act as an obstruction;
            2.   They must be structurally independent of the building and its
foundation;
            3.   They may be placed beneath a coastal building only if the top
of the pool and any accompanying decking or walkway are flush with the existing
grade and only if the lower area remains unenclosed; and
            4.   As part of the certification process for V-Zone buildings the
design professional must consider the effects that any of these elements will
have on the building in question and any nearby buildings.
         (c)   Access stairs attached to or beneath an elevated building:
            1.   Must be constructed of flood-resistant materials; and
            2.   Must be constructed as open staircases so they do not block
flow under the structure in accordance with subsection (B)(2) above.
         (d)   Decks, provided:
            1.   If the deck is structurally attached to a building then the
bottom of the lowest horizontal member must be at or above the elevation of the
building’s lowest horizontal member;
            2.   If the deck is to be built below the BFE then it must be
structurally independent of the main building and must not cause an
obstruction; and
            3.   If an at-grade, structurally independent deck is proposed then
a design professional must evaluate the design to determine if it will
adversely affect the building and nearby buildings.
      (12)   Parking areas should be located on a stable grade under or
landward of a structure. Any parking surface shall consist of gravel or
aggregate.
      (13)   Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
equipment (including ductwork) and other service facilities shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of base flood event plus three feet. This
requirement does not exclude the installation of outdoor faucets for shower
heads, sinks, hoses and the like, as long as cut-off devices and backflow
prevention devices are installed to prevent contamination to the service
components and thereby minimize any flood damages to the building. No utilities
or components shall be attached to breakaway walls.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§§ 14-57—14-70 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 14-71 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The City Board of Zoning Appeals as established by the City Council shall
hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-72 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any taxpayer may
appeal such decision to the court.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-73 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-74 FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USES.
   Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided the criteria of this article are met, no
reasonable alternative exist, and the development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage and create no additional threat to public safety.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-75 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or substantial
improvement of accessory structures and agricultural structures, provided the
requirements of this section and the following are satisfied:
   (A)   Accessory structures. A determination that the proposed accessory
structure:
      (1)   Represents a minimal investment and has low damage potential
(amount of physical damage, contents damage and loss of function);
      (2)   Is larger than the size limits specified in §
14-52(H); and
      (3)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirement of
subsection (C) below.
   (B)   Agricultural structures. A determination that the proposed
agricultural structure:
      (1)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock or storage
of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses, and will
be restricted to such exclusive uses;
      (2)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage and loss of function);
      (3)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including, but not limited
to, the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock confinement
operations, liquified natural gas terminals and production and storage of
highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials; and
      (4)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of
subsection (C) below.
   (C)   Wet floodproofing construction requirements. Wet floodproofed
structures shall:
      (1)   Be anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
      (2)   Have flood damage resistant materials below the base flood
elevation built in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage Resistant
Materials Requirement;
      (3)   Have mechanical, electrical and utility equipment in compliance
with the requirements of §
14-51(B)(6); and
      (4)   In special flood hazards area, have flood openings in compliance
with the requirements of §
14-52(D)(1).
   (D)   Variances. Variances shall not be allowed in coastal high hazard
areas.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-76 CONSIDERATIONS.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage and
the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development and the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   (I)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges; and
   (J)   Agricultural structures must be located in wide, expansive floodplain
areas, where no other alternative location for the agricultural structure
exists. The applicant must demonstrate that the entire farm acreage, consisting
of a contiguous parcel of land on which the structure is to be located, must be
in the special flood hazard area and no other alternative locations for the
structure are available.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-77 FINDINGS.
   Findings listed above shall be submitted to the Appeal Board, in writing and
included in the application for a variance. Additionally, comments from the
Department of Natural Resources, Land, Water and Conservation Division, State
Coordinator’s Office, must be taken into account and included in the permit
file.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-78 FLOODWAYS.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result unless a CLOMR is
obtained prior to issuance of the variance. In order to ensure the project is
built in compliance with the CLOMR for which the variance is granted, the
applicant must provide a bond for 100% of the cost to perform the development.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-79 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   The following conditions shall apply to all variances.
      (1)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a
variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk. Such
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The local Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of
all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request.
      (6)   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or other
development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Violations must be corrected in accordance with §
14-45(E).
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§§ 14-80—14-90 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 14-91 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted December 18, 2008, and it is
not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued there under are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the city enacted on December 18, 2008, as amended, which are not reenacted
herein, are repealed.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-92 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building Inspector or
his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter;
provided, however, that when start of construction has not occurred under such
outstanding permit within a period of 60 days subsequent to passage of this
chapter, construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 14-93 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 4-22-2021)
CHAPTER 15: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
15.224   Curfew for minors
§ 15.224 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. Includes, but is not limited to, the following: fire, natural
disaster, vehicular accident or obtaining immediate medical care for another
person.
      GUARDIAN. Any person to whom custody of a minor has been given by a court
order.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is the natural or adoptive parent of a minor. As
used herein, PARENT shall also include a court-appointed guardian to have the
care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to purposefully remain, walk, run,
stand, drive or ride about in or upon any public place in the city between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the parent having legal custody of a minor
to knowingly allow or permit the minor to be in violation of the curfew imposed
in subsection (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Defenses. It is the defense to prosecution under subsection (B) above
that:
      (1)   The minor was accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   The minor was accompanied by another adult approved by the parent
or guardian of the minor;
      (3)   The minor was on an emergency errand;
      (4)   The minor was attending or going directly to or coming directly
from a school, community, government or religious activity;
      (5)   The minor was engaged in or going directly to or coming directly
from a lawful employment activity;
      (6)   The minor was on the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides,
or on the sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her
parent or guardian to be, or on the sidewalk of a next door neighbor who has
not communicated an objection to this activity by the minor to any police
officer;
      (7)   The minor was upon an errand directed by his or her parent or
guardian; and
      (8)   The minor was in a motor vehicle involved in intrastate or
interstate transportation or transportation for which passage through the
curfew area is the most direct route.
   (D)   Enforcement procedure.
      (1)   Any police officer upon finding a minor in violation of this
section shall ascertain the name and address of such minor and warn the minor
that he or she is in violation of curfew and shall direct the minor to proceed
at once to his or her home or usual place of abode. The police officer shall
report such action to the Chief of Police who in turn shall notify the parents,
guardian or person having custody or control of such minor of violation.
      (2)   If such minor refuses to heed such warning or direction by any
police officer or refuses to give such police officer his or her correct name
and address, or if the minor has been warned on a previous occasion that he or
she is in violation of curfew, he or she shall be taken to the Police
Department and the parent, guardian or the adult person having the care and
custody of the minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor. If
the parent, guardian or other adult person above cannot be located or fails to
come and take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities.
      (3)   Upon the second and each offense thereafter of this section, each
minor and parent, guardian or other person having the care and custody of such
minor shall appear before the Municipal Judge and upon conviction be fined as
follows:
         (a)   Second offense: $25;
         (b)   Third offense: $50;
         (c)   Fourth offense: $100; and
         (d)   Each offense thereafter: not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1996)
CHAPTER 16: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Article I. In General
   
16-1   Board of Health
   16-2—16-20   Reserved   
Article II. Nuisances
   
16-21   Definition of public nuisances
   
16-22   Abatement of public nuisances
   
16-23   Refusal to abate a public nuisance
   
16-24   Weeds prohibited on improved property
   
16-25   Accumulation of junk and trash
   
16-26   Notice to owner to remedy or remove condition
   
16-27   Methods of delivering notice to abate
   
16-28   Correction or removal of conditions; appeals
   
16-29   Mixture of garbage with ashes
   
16-30   Foul liquids or gases
   
16-31   Storage of offensive matter
   
16-32   Offensive odor
   
16-33   Accumulation of offensive matter
   16-34—16-50   Reserved
Article III. Vacant Lots; Premises
   
16-51   Accumulations prohibited
   
16-52   Requirement for owner to maintain lots
   
16-53   Penalties
   
16-54   City to clean; costs to be paid by owner
   16-55—16-70   Reserved
Article IV. Toilet Facilities
   
16-71   “Pit privy” defined; declared unlawful
   
16-72   Building contracts to provide for waste disposal
   
16-73   Penalties
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 16-1 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Unless and until a board of health is appointed by Council, health matters,
generally, shall be referred to the County Board of Health.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal corporations may establish and maintain boards of health, see S.C.
Code § 44-3-10
§§ 16-2—16-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. NUISANCES
§ 16-21 DEFINITION OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Any act of any person, firm or corporation whereby the health or life
of any individual may be endangered, injured or impaired, or which causes any
disease is hereby declared a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any owner,
occupant or agent of lots or premises, whether occupied or vacant, within the
corporate limits to permit such property to become unsanitary by allowing any
offensive matter or thing upon such lot or premises which may be detrimental to
health, or to permit any trash, rubbish, waste, storage or ice boxes,
refrigerators, stoves, refuse, manure, straw, hay or thing to accumulate and
remain upon such premises, or to throw, deposit or cause to be thrown or
deposited upon any vacant lot or premises such thing which may endanger, injure
or damage another’s health or property.
   (B)   The following acts, conditions and things are, each and all of them,
hereby declared to constitute a nuisance, but they are not all inclusive:
      (1)   The maintenance of any barn or stable within the corporate limits;
      (2)   The deposit of garbage in any but fly-proof and watertight
receptacles, where residences are less than 500 feet apart;
      (3)   The accumulation of water in which mosquitoes may breed;
      (4)   Growth of weeds where mosquitoes may harbor or rubbish may be
concealed, where residences are less than 500 feet apart;
      (5)   The keeping of any building or any part of a building which, on
account of its dilapidated condition, may endanger the life or health of
residents therein or in the vicinity thereof;
      (6)   The discharge of sewage, garbage or any other organic filth into or
upon any place in such a manner that transmission of infective material to
human beings may result therefrom; and
      (7)   The maintaining or carrying on of manufacture of chemicals, or any
other trade or manufacture in such manner as to be a menace to the public
health through improper or inadequate disposal of dust, wastes or fumes.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to abate nuisances, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Municipality may require property owners to keep property clean and free of
unhealthy material, see S.C. Code § 5-7-80
   Noxious weeds and plants as determined by the Agriculture Commissioner, see
S.C. Code of Regulations § 5-462
§ 16-22 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The City Administrator may declare as nuisances such things which the
existence of may be deemed unhealthy or harmful to the citizens, and such
nuisances shall be abated pursuant to directions from the Council.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-23 REFUSAL TO ABATE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any person refusing or neglecting to abate a nuisance, after having been
directed to do so, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and the penalty shall be
not more than $50 per day.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-24 WEEDS PROHIBITED ON IMPROVED PROPERTY.
   No person shall allow or permit weeds and grass to grow upon his or her
improved premises within the corporate limits uncut so as to render the
premises unsightly or unhealthy from the growth and accumulation of such grass,
weeds and vegetable matter thereon.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-25 ACCUMULATION OF JUNK AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful to accumulate or allow to accumulate on any premises or
in the rear of any store, factory or residence, old fixtures, junk, trash or
any other material which tends to keep such premises wet, exclude the sun and
catch and favor the accumulation of filth.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-26 NOTICE TO OWNER TO REMEDY OR REMOVE CONDITION.
   Whenever any condition described in this article is found to exist on any
premises, the owner of such premises shall be notified by the City
Administrator in writing, to correct the condition within ten days after such
notice. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with such notice.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-27 METHODS OF DELIVERING NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   The notice shall be served on the owner to whom it is directed or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to such owner at his or her
last known post office address.
   (B)   In the event personal service cannot be made and the owner’s address
is unknown, such notice shall be given by publication at least two times within
15 consecutive days in a local newspaper of general circulation.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-28 CORRECTION OR REMOVAL OF CONDITIONS; APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   In the event the owner of any lot or premises, upon which a
condition described in this article exists, fails to remedy such condition
within ten days after notice to do so is given, the city may do such work or
make such improvements as are necessary to correct, remedy or remove such
condition, or cause the same to be done, pay therefor and charge the expenses
incurred thereby to the owner of such lot. The doing of such work shall not
relieve such person from prosecution for failure to comply with such notice.
      (2)   Such expenses shall be assessed against the real estate upon which
the work was done or the improvements made but shall be reasonable.
   (B)   The owner shall have the right of appeal to Council.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-29 MIXTURE OF GARBAGE WITH ASHES.
   The mixture of rubbish, garbage or any kind of decaying animal or vegetable
matter, with clean ashes or earth for the filling of any sunken, low or marshy
private or public place, lot or premises, is here by declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-30 FOUL LIQUIDS OR GASES.
   The keeping of any foul liquids or gases in any place where they may become
injurious to health, or the keeping or forming of such open or sunken places or
excavations upon any lot or land as accumulate foul water or offensive animal
or vegetable matter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-31 STORAGE OF OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   The storage of animal refuse or decayable or putrescible matter, in liquid
or solid form in any receptacle in such manner as to endanger health, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-32 OFFENSIVE ODOR.
   The construction of any drain or sewer, or the pouring out of foul liquids
on the surface of the ground, in such manner as to become the source from which
offensive odors shall emanate, or in such manner as to pollute the ground, air
or water to the risk or detriment of the health of persons living or passing in
the vicinity thereof, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-33 ACCUMULATION OF OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   The accumulation of any animal or vegetable substance or substances, or of
other offensive matter in the form of rubbish, garbage or offal, in or upon any
lot, street, highway or any public or private place, and allowing the same to
remain until it shall become hazardous to health, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§§ 16-34—16-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. VACANT LOTS; PREMISES
§ 16-51 ACCUMULATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain or to
permit to be maintained any premises, including vacant lots or land, upon which
grass, weeds, undergrowth, trash, garbage, offal, stagnant water, building
materials, glass, wood or other matter deleterious to good health and public
sanitation which is permitted or caused to accumulate in any manner which is or
may become a nuisance causing injury to the health or welfare of the residents
or the public in the vicinity or causing injury to neighboring property.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-52 REQUIREMENT FOR OWNER TO MAINTAIN LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator to summon the owner of
such premises by mailing a certified notice to the owner of the premises to
come to City Hall and meet with the City Administrator.
   (B)   After fully hearing the matter and any statement the owner may make
and any testimony he or she may offer in his or her behalf concerning such
matter, the City Administrator should find such premises or lot in a condition
tending to injure the public health, he or she shall issue a written order or
notice directed to the owner, directing and requiring him or her within a
reasonable and specified time to clear such premises or lot in order to abate
such nuisance.
   (C)   Should any property owner fail to keep such property cleared, after
due notice thereof to do so, the city may cause said property to be kept
cleared and in a sanitary condition for health purposes or cleared for fire
prevention purposes, and the cost shall become a lien upon the real estate.
(Ord. 01-08, passed 8-7-2001; Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-53 PENALTIES.
   The violation of any provision of this article shall be deemed a
misdemeanor, and the penalty shall be not more than $50 per day.
§ 16-54 CITY TO CLEAN; COSTS TO BE PAID BY OWNER.
   Should any property owner fail to keep such property cleared, after due
notice to the owner of record on the tax books by certified mail, return
receipt requested, and by posting notice on the property, the city may cause
said property to be kept cleared and in a sanitary condition for health
purposes or cleared for fire protection purposes, and the cost shall be
assessed against the property owner.
(Ord. 01-08, passed 8-7-2001; Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§§ 16-55—16-70 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. TOILET FACILITIES
§ 16-71 “PIT PRIVY” DEFINED; DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the term PIT PRIVY shall mean a
building which is not connected to a sewer or septic tank, and used for
affording privacy while in the act of urination or defecation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to construct, erect,
install, maintain or permit to remain any pit privy on any property within the
corporate limits.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-72 BUILDING CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE FOR WASTE DISPOSAL.
   All building contracts for the erection of structures anticipated for human
occupancy shall provide for adequate and sanitary waste disposal. The contract
shall provide for such facilities, and plans shall state the proposed method of
disposal.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 16-73 PENALTIES.
   The violation of any provision of this article shall be deemed a
misdemeanor, and the penalty shall be not more than $50 per day.
(Ord. 2014-06, passed 10-7-2014)
CHAPTER 17: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 18: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
18-1   Composition; authority
   
18-2   Chief of Police; authority
   
18-3   Records of arrests
   
18-4   Duty of police officer to arrest
   
18-5   Liability of police officer failing or neglecting to arrest or report
violation
   
18-6   Posse comitatus
   
18-7   Collection of money, arms and the like from prisoner prior to lockup
   
18-8   Required bond or pledge of violators
   
18-9   Off duty
   
18-10   Police to sell recovered personal property
Statutory reference:
   Municipal police officers, see S.C. Code § 5-7-110
   Reserve police officers, see S.C. Code §§ 23-28-10 et seq.
§ 18-1 COMPOSITION; AUTHORITY.
   The Police Department of the city shall consist of such number of persons as
may be appointed by the City Council to act as regular police officers and of
such persons as may be appointed by the City Council to act as police officers
of the city on special occasions or for any length of time other than regular
officers. Such officers are authorized to arrest and commit for trial before
the Municipal Court any person or persons who may violate any of the ordinances
of the city.
§ 18-2 CHIEF OF POLICE; AUTHORITY.
   The Chief of Police and all members of the Department shall be appointed by
and hold office at the pleasure of the Administrator. In the absence of the
Chief, the acting Chief shall be recognized and respected by each member of the
force as his or her superior officer. The Chief of Police shall be appointed
with the concurrence or approval of the City Council.
§ 18-3 RECORDS OF ARRESTS.
   The Chief shall cause to be kept a record of all arrests.
§ 18-4 DUTY OF POLICE OFFICER TO ARREST.
   It shall be the duty of police officers to arrest all persons violating any
city ordinance or regulation.
§ 18-5 LIABILITY OF POLICE OFFICER FAILING OR NEGLECTING TO ARREST OR REPORT
VIOLATION.
   Should any officer fail or neglect to arrest or report any person or persons
for violating ordinances of the city, he or she shall be liable to a fine,
suspension or discharge.
§ 18-6 POSSE COMITATUS.
   Police officers shall, whenever necessary in the discharge of their duty,
have the authority to call to their assistance the posse comitatus of the city.
Any person, or persons, who may be called to the assistance of any of the
police officers, as aforesaid, shall respond to such call and render such
lawful assistance as may be required.
§ 18-7 COLLECTION OF MONEY, ARMS AND THE LIKE FROM PRISONER PRIOR TO LOCKUP.
   It shall be the duty of each police officer, before locking up a prisoner,
to remove from him or her all money, arms and the like found on his or her
person for which the Department shall be responsible and a written record
maintained thereof.
§ 18-8 REQUIRED BOND OR PLEDGE OF VIOLATORS.
   Every police officer, upon the arrest of any person or persons for violating
the ordinances of the city, shall require the person or persons to give a valid
bond or valid pledge for his or her appearance at the Municipal Court. For
failure to give such valid bond or pledge, such person or persons shall be
imprisoned in the jail of the city.
§ 18-9 OFF DUTY.
   While off duty, members of the police force shall retain their police
powers, as occasions may dictate.
§ 18-10 POLICE TO SELL RECOVERED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all bicycles, cameras, electronic
equipment, office machines, watches, clocks, jewelry and other items of
personal property which may be recovered by the Police Department in connection
with the performance of its duties, or turned in to the Department, and shall
be referred to herein as personal property.
   (B)   All personal property which has been lost, stolen or abandoned and
which is in the possession of the Department shall be disposed of by annual
public sale to the highest bidder by the Police Chief, or an officer appointed
by him or her.
   (C)   Such property which remains unclaimed by the owner, or if the owner is
unknown, shall be sold at public sale after duly posting of public notice of
same at least 15 days prior to such sale. The notice shall contain time, place
and terms of the sale and a description of the property to be sold.
   (D)   The proceeds from the sale of all unclaimed personal property shall be
paid into the General Fund, on the day of sale.
CHAPTER 19: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 20: OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
Article I. In General
   
20-1   Adoption of criminal law of the state
   
20-2   Drinking liquor in public conveyances
   
20-3   Drinking alcoholic beverages on public property
   
20-4   Sales of wine or beer prohibited during certain hours; exception
   20-5—20-20   Reserved
Article II. Public Amusements
   
20-21   Musical devices operated loudly
   
20-22   Disturbance at entertainments, gatherings and the like
   
20-23   Amusement places to have entrances opening onto street
   
20-24   Pool rooms; restrictions as to minors
   
20-25   Poolroom provisions to be conspicuously displayed
   
20-26   Duty of proprietor; tables to be covered
   
20-27   Exemptions
   20-28—20-40   Reserved
Article III. Offenses Against Morality, Decency and Public Welfare
   
20-41   Indecent exposure
   
20-42   Bawdy houses
   
20-43   Solicitation for illegal purposes
   
20-44   Information or direction for illegal purpose
   
20-45   Transportation of persons for illegal purpose
   
20-46   Unlawful to rent, use and the like any place for illegal purpose
   
20-47   Gambling; games of chance
   
20-48   Gambling house
   
20-49   Fortune-telling
   
20-50   Disturbance at schools
   
20-51   Public drunkenness
   
20-52   Drinking in public
   
20-53   Spitting
   
20-54   Obstructing passage
   
20-55   Sunday sales, working on Sundays
   20-56—20-70   Reserved
Article IV. Offenses Against the Peace
   
20-71   Discharge of firearms
   
20-72   Disorderly conduct
   
20-73   Resisting officer making arrest
   
20-74   Interfering with worship or public gatherings
   
20-75   Riots
   
20-76   Failure to aid police
   
20-77   Discharge of dangerous devices; firearms
   
20-78   Parades, picketing, demonstrations; permit required
   
20-79   Aiders or abettors; hindering police officers; escape
   
20-80   Noises; disturbing the peace
   
20-81   Halloween; trick or treat
   
20-82   “Drug paraphernalia” defined; declared unlawful
   
20-83   Crime watch area signs; designation
   
20-84   Aggressive panhandling
   20-85—20-100   Reserved
Article V. Offenses Against Property
   
20-101   Failure to leave premises when ordered
   
20-102   Fences; removing, destroying or leaving down
   
20-103   Obtaining signature or property by false pretenses
   
20-104   Failing to return books or other materials borrowed from certain
public institutions
   
20-105   Trespass
   
20-106   Altering and removing landmarks, trees and the like
   
20-107   Fires and fireworks near buildings
   
20-108   Junk yards prohibited
   
20-109   Imitating signal or call for police officer prohibited
   
20-110   Gaining admission to public event without paying therefor
   
20-111   Posting notice or sign on private property
   20-112—20-130   Reserved
Article VI. Offenses Against Public Policy
   
20-131   Disruption of public meetings
   
20-132   Communication with prisoners
   
20-133   Approaching within 20 feet of person being arrested
   
20-134   Public property to be returned upon separation
   
20-135   Failure to stop on command of officer
   20-136—20-150   Reserved
Article VII. Offenses Against the Person
   
20-151   Failing to remove doors from abandoned refrigerators
   
20-152   Unlawful to leave abandoned wells open
   
20-153   Unlawful to throw object injuring person or damaging property
   
20-154   Nuisances unlawful
   20-155—20-170   Reserved
Article VIII. Parties to Crime
   
20-171   Unlawful conduct relating to criminal act
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 20-1 ADOPTION OF CRIMINAL LAW OF THE STATE.
   All acts and conduct that constitute violation of the common law and
statutory law, as set forth in the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, and
amendatory thereof, are hereby declared unlawful, when such acts, conduct or
violations occur, insofar as such provisions and violations can have
application and the punishment of which is within the jurisdiction of the city.
§ 20-2 DRINKING LIQUOR IN PUBLIC CONVEYANCES.
   Any person who shall drink alcoholic liquor in any public conveyance shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 20-3 DRINKING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic liquors, beer,
ale, porter, wine or any other similar malt or fermented beverage on the
streets, sidewalks or any other public property. Possession of any open can,
bottle or other container with alcoholic liquors therein on aforesaid property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of any violation of this chapter.
§ 20-4 SALES OF WINE OR BEER PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any wine or
beer between the hours of 12:00 a.m. Saturday night and sunrise Monday morning,
except for those establishments licensed by the state to sell alcoholic
beverages during the lawful hours.
§§ 20-5—20-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
§ 20-21 MUSICAL DEVICES OPERATED LOUDLY.
   It shall be unlawful to operate, after 12:00 a.m. and prior to 8:00 a.m., or
at any time during Sunday, any musical device of any nature, however operated,
that is operated so loudly as to make a noise to disturb the repose of the
community; provided, that this section shall not prohibit the operation of a
radio, television, electronic games or other such instruments in the home,
which are so operated as not to disturb the peace.
§ 20-22 DISTURBANCE AT ENTERTAINMENTS, GATHERINGS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to behave disorderly in any public hall
or other place of amusement, entertainment or gathering or to enter the same in
a drunken condition or to interrupt any play, performance, lecture,
entertainment or service therein, or any player, speaker or other person taking
part therein.
§ 20-23 AMUSEMENT PLACES TO HAVE ENTRANCES OPENING ONTO STREET.
   All places of public amusements, for safety purposes, shall have entrances
which open onto a public street.
§ 20-24 POOL ROOMS; RESTRICTIONS AS TO MINORS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to
play billiard or pocket billiards in any billiard room, unless accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian or with the written consent of his or her parent
or guardian.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of this and the following
sections, or any billiard room proprietor or manager who shall permit such
violation, shall be punished as provided herein.
   (B)   (1)   In the event the keeper of a billiard room is of the opinion
that any person desiring admission thereto is under the age of 18, he or she
shall require such person to certify his or her age in writing.
      (2)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any minor to make a false certificate
as to his or her age or to use a forged permit from his or her parent or
guardian.
   (C)   Pool halls shall close from 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on week days and
all day on Sunday.
§ 20-25 POOL ROOM PROVISIONS TO BE CONSPICUOUSLY DISPLAYED.
   Every licensed billiard room proprietor shall, for the information of his or
her patrons, post in any room where pool tables are operated a placard having
conspicuously written or printed thereon in letters not less than one-fourth of
an inch in height the provisions of §
20-24.
§ 20-26 DUTY OF PROPRIETOR; TABLES TO BE COVERED.
   (A)   The proprietor or person in charge of any billiard room or pocket
billiard room shall use reasonable diligence and care to see that the
provisions of these sections shall be held responsible, under the penalties
provided herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain any pool table, regardless of size or
whether it is coin-operated, unless same is unplugged if electrically operated,
and unless it is covered with a fabric during the hours of closure as
hereinabove set forth.
§ 20-27 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions hereof shall not be construed to include billiard
tables or billiard rooms operated by fraternal orders, bona fide clubs,
industrial concerns, religious orders or charitable institutions when no fees
are charged for the use of such tables.
   (B)   Should fees be charged for the use of such tables, all of the
provisions hereof shall apply.
§§ 20-28—20-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY, DECENCY
AND PUBLIC WELFARE
§ 20-41 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit willful and malicious indecent
exposure of his or her person in any public place, on property of others or to
the view of any person on any street or highway or to appear in a public place
in a state of nudity.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-15-130
§ 20-42 BAWDY HOUSES.
   The keeping of a bawdy house, disorderly house or a house of prostitution
within the corporate limits shall be deemed a misdemeanor for the owner or
lessee of any dwelling house or other building situated within the corporate
limits, to let or sublet such dwelling house or other building to any person to
be used, or with the knowledge that the same is intended to be used, and kept
as a bawdy house or house of prostitution.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-15-90
§ 20-43 SOLICITATION FOR ILLEGAL PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to invite or entice any person upon any
street, public square or enclosure to accompany, go with or follow such person
to any place for illegal purposes, or to invite, entice or address any person
from any door, window, porch or portico of any house or building to enter any
house, go with or accompany such person to any place for illegal purposes.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-15-90
§ 20-44 INFORMATION OR DIRECTION FOR ILLEGAL PURPOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give information about any house or
place for illegal purposes, whether the communication is by word of mouth or
direction, telephone or in writing.
§ 20-45 TRANSPORTATION OF PERSONS FOR ILLEGAL PURPOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, convey or assist by
aiding, abetting, encouraging, requesting or other, in transporting, carrying,
conveying in or accompanying by any ways and means whatsoever any person for
any illegal purpose.
§ 20-46 UNLAWFUL TO RENT, USE AND THE LIKE ANY PLACE FOR ILLEGAL PURPOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, rent, use or occupy any place
for illegal purposes.
Statutory reference:
   Use of buildings for illegal conduct, see S.C. Code § 15-43-10(a)
§ 20-47 GAMBLING; GAMES OF CHANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in gambling or games of chance
within the corporate limits, unless permitted under state law.
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful games and betting, see S.C. Code § 16-19-40
§ 20-48 GAMBLING HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep or maintain a
gambling house, room or any other place where people engage in gambling or
games of chance, or to permit gambling or games of chance in any building on
their premises or under their control, unless otherwise permitted under state
law.
§ 20-49 FORTUNE-TELLING.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business, trade or profession of
fortune-telling, palmistry, phrenology, clairvoyance or the prediction of
future events by cards or other means or to offer to tell fortunes or predict
future events by palmistry, astrology, clairvoyance, cards or other means as an
inducement to promote some other business, trade or profession.
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required for itinerant fortunetellers, see S.C. Code § 40-41-310
§ 20-50 DISTURBANCE AT SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person willfully or unnecessarily to interfere with or to
disturb in any way or in any place the students or teachers of any school, to
loiter about such school premises or to act in an obnoxious manner thereon; or
   (B)   For any person to enter upon any school premises or loiter around the
premises, except on business, without the permission of the principal or person
in charge.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-17-420
§ 20-51 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance upon the public
streets or in any public place in a drunken condition.
§ 20-52 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drink any kind of
intoxicating alcoholic beverages on the streets, alleyways, highways or other
such public places.
§ 20-53 SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any sidewalk or other
public place, or upon the floor, walk or any other part of any building or room
which, is used by the public.
§ 20-54 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the access to any
public building or any part thereof, or obstruct the passage of any person
through any public street, park or public place.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section., prohibited conduct shall encompass,
but shall not necessarily be limited to, one or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Obstruction of the unhampered passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      (2)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully upon
any street, park or other public place; or
      (3)   Refusing to move when requested to do so by a police officer;
provided the officer has exercised his or her discretion reasonably under the
circumstances, in order to preserve or promote public peace and order.
§ 20-55 SUNDAY SALES, WORKING ON SUNDAYS.
   The sale of merchandise on Sundays and working on Sundays shall conform to
applicable state statutes.
§§ 20-56—20-70 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
§ 20-71 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carelessly or negligently discharge
any loaded or unloaded firearm. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to
abridge the right of self-defense or to apply to theatricals or like
performances or to peace officers in the discharge of their duties.
Statutory reference:
   Local government may regulate careless or negligent discharge, or public
brandishment of firearms, see S.C. Code § 23-31-520
§ 20-72 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct oneself in a disorderly manner with
the purpose to cause public inconvenience, alarm or recklessly creating a risk
thereof by:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, threatening, violent or tumultuous behavior,
breach of the peace;
      (2)   Malting unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture
or display or addresses of abusive language to any person present;
      (3)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the act; or
      (4)   The existence of any disorderly, lewd or indecent conduct by
scurrilous, obscene, indecent or profane writing, picture, mark or figure on
any wall, fence, house or structure.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC means affecting or likely to
affect any person or persons in a place to which the public or a substantial
group has access; among the places included are highways, transport facilities,
schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or entertainment,
governmental buildings, any neighborhood, in automobiles and the like.
Statutory reference:
   Public disorderly conduct, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 20-73 RESISTING OFFICER MAKING ARREST.
   Any person or persons who shall resist or obstruct any officer in the
discharge of his or her duty or who shall aid or abet any person or persons in
resisting or obstructing any officer in the discharge of his or her duty, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to the limitations prescribed by the
S.C. Code §§ 14-25-65 and 16-5-50.
§ 20-74 INTERFERING WITH WORSHIP OR PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or disturb any
religious worship or public gathering.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-17-520
§ 20-75 RIOTS.
   Any person, upon conviction of engaging in a riot, rout or affray when no
weapon was actually used and no wound inflicted, shall be subject to and liable
for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-5-120
§ 20-76 FAILURE TO AID POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of each and every citizen to assist municipal officers
to arrest violators of the law when requested, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to do so.
§ 20-77 DISCHARGE OF DANGEROUS DEVICES; FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits, to fire or discharge any
pistol, gun, air rifle, sling shot or other device which may be potentially
harmful to any person or property.
§ 20-78 PARADES, PICKETING, DEMONSTRATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to parade, picket or march unless a permit to
perform such actions has been secured. To secure a permit, those desiring same
shall make application, duly signed by the individual organizer or by an
officer of the organization and submit it unto the Municipal Clerk, for
subsequent approval by the Council, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. of each work day. A permit may be issued three days thereafter, excluding
the date the application is submitted. The application shall state the time,
duration, purpose, the area in which said picketing, parading or marching will
occur and the individual, group of individuals or organization directing and
responsible for said picketing, parading or marching.
   (B)   When picketing or engaging in “demonstrations,” no person shall:
      (1)   Use on the streets or public places any verbal abuse, including
threats or acts of violence, directed against any person;
      (2)   Engage in riotous and loud conduct which invades the privacy of
homes or businesses;
      (3)   Damage or destroy or injure the person or property of others;
      (4)   Block, in any manner, the streets and means of ingress and egress
to places of business;
      (5)   Interfere with, in any manner, or obstruct any official in the
performance of his or her duties;
      (6)   Interfere in any matter with the attendance, during school hours,
of children in the public schools, by inciting or urging them to participate in
demonstrations or for any other unlawful purpose or reason;
      (7)   Picket other than in accordance with the following principles:
         (a)   In a manner so as not to interfere with pedestrians or vehicular
traffic;
         (b)   In a manner so as not to block entrances or exits to or from
picketed establishments; and
         (c)   No picket-trespassing upon the property of the business
establishment being picketed.
      (8)   “Demonstrate,” other than in accordance with the following
principles:
         (a)   Observe all traffic-control devices;
         (b)   Walking close to the building line or curb so as not to
interfere with or obstruct other pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk; and
         (c)   Assemble peacefully and speak peacefully and in such
circumstances as will not unduly disrupt the public peace and conducted in such
a manner as not to deprive the public of adequate police and fire protection.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to funeral processions, the United States
Armed Forces, the military force of this state and the Police and Fire
Departments of the city.
§ 20-79 AIDERS OR ABETTORS; HINDERING POLICE OFFICERS; ESCAPE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to counsel, advise, incite, abet,
procure or aid any other person in the violation of any ordinances. Such person
shall be held and deemed a principal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to escape from custody of a police
officer or to rescue or attempt to do so, hinder a police officer or offer to
help, aid, assist or abet, directly or indirectly, another person or persons to
escape from the custody of an officer making an arrest or an officer assisting
therein.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-1-40
§ 20-80 NOISES; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   The creation and continuation of any loud, disturbing noise is hereby
prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, make or contribute to
creating any loud or disturbing noise of such character, intensity or duration
as to be detrimental to the life or health of any citizen. The following acts,
among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing noises in violation of this
section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, noise makers or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any
performance or event, show, sale or the display or advertisement of
merchandise, by the creation of noise except by permit from the Chief of
Police; or
      (2)   Business noises at night near residences. The operation of any
garage, service station, auto repair business, plant, store, factory or other
place of business, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., in such manner
as to create loud and disturbing noises, of such frequency or such volume as to
disturb the quiet and comfort of any citizen and particularly the creating of
disturbing noises of such frequency and volume as to disturb the quiet,
comfort, peace or repose of any person in any dwelling, boarding house or other
type of residence.
   (B)   The following requirements as to the audible signal alarm devices
shall apply to all structures in the city.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subsection (B), an AUDIBLE SIGNAL ALARM
DEVICE shall mean any mechanism, equipment or system which is designated to
operate automatically through the use or emission of an audible signal, message
or warning.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any structure in
the city to cause or allow such structure to contain or otherwise use an
audible signal alarm device unless there is filed with the Police Department a
list of the names and telephone numbers of persons who have access to and can
shut down the device in the event the device is triggered or otherwise emits an
audible signal or noise. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant to see
that someone on the list of people with access to property and knowledge of the
system be available at any time in the absence of the owner or occupant.
   (C)   Violation of this section or failure to comply with any of its
provisions shall be a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 20-81 HALLOWEEN; TRICK OR TREAT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person over 12 years of age to participate in
the act of “trick or treat” on Halloween night, and all persons under said age
shall be accompanied by a parent or responsible person. All “trick or treat”
activities shall end by 8:00 p.m. This section shall not apply to organized and
supervised Halloween parties such as schools, churches, private homes and the
like.
§ 20-82 “DRUG PARAPHERNALIA” DEFINED; DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA is hereby
defined as equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to possess drug paraphernalia within the
corporate limits with the intent of selling, donating or otherwise distributing
same for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of this section.
§ 20-83 CRIME WATCH AREA SIGNS; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The City Administrator and Chief of Police shall designate “Crime
Watch Areas” and obtain official permission, to erect signs indicating such
areas, from the State Department of Highways and Public Transportation
(SCDHPT).
   (B)   “Crime Watch Area” signs shall not exceed three feet by four feet and
shall be placed on highway or street rights-of-way in accordance with SCDHPT
regulations.
§ 20-84 AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGGRESSIVE MANNER.
         (a)   Approaching or speaking to a person, or following a person
before, during or after soliciting if that conduct is intended or is likely to
cause a reasonable person to fear bodily harm to oneself or to another, or
damage to or loss of property or otherwise be intimidated into giving money or
other thing of value;
         (b)   Continuing to solicit from a person after the person has given a
negative response to such soliciting;
         (c)   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with another
person without that person’s consent in the course of soliciting;
         (d)   Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free
passage of a pedestrian or vehicle by any means, including unreasonably causing
a pedestrian or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid physical
contact;
         (e)   Using violent or threatening gestures toward a person solicited;
         (f)   Following the person being solicited, with the intent of asking
that person for money or other things of value;
         (g)   Speaking in a volume unreasonably loud under the circumstances;
and
         (h)   Soliciting money from anyone who is waiting in line for entry to
a building or for another purpose.
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE. A device, linked to a financial institution’s
account records, which is able to carry out transactions, including, but not
limited to, account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals, balance inquiries
and mortgage and loan payments.
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE FACILITY. The area comprised of one or more
automatic teller machines and any adjacent space that is made available to
banking customers after regular banking hours.
      CHECK CASHING BUSINESS. Any person engaged in the business of cashing
checks, drafts or money orders for consideration.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any banking corporation, savings bank, credit
union or foreign exchange office.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place where a governmental entity has title, to which the
public or a substantial group of persons has access, including, but not limited
to, any street, highway, parking lot, plaza, transportation facility, school,
place of amusement, park or playground.
      SOLICITING. Asking for money or objects of value, with the intention that
the money or object be transferred at that time and at that place. SOLICITING
includes using the spoken, written or printed word, bodily gestures, signs or
other means with the purpose of obtaining an immediate donation of money or
other thing of value or soliciting the sale of goods or services.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person shall solicit in an aggressive manner in any public
place.
      (2)   No person shall solicit on private or residential property without
permission from the owner or other person lawfully in possession of such
property.
      (3)   No person shall solicit within 20 feet of public toilets.
      (4)   No person shall solicit within 20 feet of any entrance or exit of
any financial institution or check cashing business or within 20 feet of any
automated teller machine without the consent of the owner of the property or
another person legally in possession of such facilities; provided, however,
that when an automated teller machine is located within an automated teller
machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of
the facility.
      (5)   No person shall solicit an operator or other occupant of a motor
vehicle while such vehicle is located on any street, for the purpose of
performing or offering to perform a service in connection with such vehicle or
otherwise soliciting the sale of goods or services. Provided, however, that
this subsection (B)(5) shall not apply to services rendered in connection with
emergency repairs requested by the operator or passenger of such vehicle.
      (6)   No person shall solicit from any operator or occupant of a motor
vehicle on a public street in exchange for blocking, occupying or reserving a
public parking space or directing the operator or occupant to a public parking
space.
      (7)   No person shall solicit while under the influence of alcohol or a
controlled substance.
      (8)   No person shall solicit by stating that funds are needed to meet a
specific need, when the solicitor has the funds to meet that need, does not
intend to use funds to meet that need or does not have that need.
      (9)   No person shall solicit in any public transportation vehicle; or at
any bus, train or subway station or stop or in any public parking lot or
structure.
      (10)   No person shall solicit in a group of two or more persons.
      (11)   No person shall solicit within six feet of an entrance to a
building.
      (12)   No person shall solicit within 20 feet of any valid vendor
location.
      (13)   No person shall solicit within 20 feet of any pay telephone,
provided that when a pay telephone is located within a telephone booth or other
facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the
telephone booth or facility.
§§ 20-85—20-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 20-101 FAILURE TO LEAVE PREMISES WHEN ORDERED.
   Any person or persons who, when requested to leave the premises of another
or the house wherein any one or more persons shall conduct business (except
offices of public officers), shall refuse to do so, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
§ 20-102 FENCES; REMOVING, DESTROYING OR LEAVING DOWN.
   Any person other than the owner who shall remove, destroy or leave down any
portion of any fence intended to enclose animals of any kind, crops or
uncultivated lands or who shall leave open any gate or leave down any bars or
other structure intended for a like purpose shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-11-650
§ 20-103 OBTAINING SIGNATURE OR PROPERTY BY FALSE PRETENSES.
   Any person who shall, by any false pretense or representation, obtain the
signature of any person to any written instrument or shall obtain for any other
person any chattel, money, valuable security or other property, real or
personal, if the sum of the written instrument or the value of the property so
obtained does not exceed $1,000, with the intent to cheat and defraud any
person of such property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and the punishment
shall be not more than is permitted by the general penalty section of this
code.
§ 20-104 FAILING TO RETURN BOOKS OR OTHER MATERIALS BORROWED FROM CERTAIN
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS.
   Whoever shall borrow from any library, school, museum, collection or
exhibition any book, newspaper, magazine, manuscript, pamphlet, publication,
recording, film or other article belonging to or in the care of said
organizations, under any agreement to return it, thereafter shall fail to
return said borrowed article, shall be given written notice, mailed to his or
her last known address by certified mail, or delivered in person, to return
such borrowed article within 15 days; and in the event that such person shall
thereafter willfully and knowingly fail to return such borrowed article within
15 days, such person shall be guilty and punished by a maximum fine of $100 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-13-340
§ 20-105 TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   Every entry upon the lands of another, after notice from the
owner or tenant prohibiting such entry, shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   When any owner or tenant of any lands shall post a notice in four
conspicuous places on the borders of such land prohibiting entry thereon, a
proof of the posting shall be deemed and taken as notice conclusive against the
person making entry, as aforesaid, for the purpose of trespassing.
   (B)   Any person entering upon the lands of another for the purpose of
hunting, fishing, swimming, skiing, trapping, netting, gathering fruit, wild
flowers, cultivated flowers, shrubbery, straw, turf, vegetables or herbs or
cutting timber on the same, without the consent of the owner or manager
thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code §§ 16-11-600 and 16-11-610
§ 20-106 ALTERING AND REMOVING LANDMARKS, TREES AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who shall knowingly, willfully, maliciously or fraudulently cut,
fell, alter or remove any boundary tree or other allowed landmark, lamp post,
lamp or shade tree shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-11-680
§ 20-107 FIRES AND FIREWORKS NEAR BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or ignite a fire or to shoot or
discharge fireworks in any place within the corporate limits that would
endanger any property or building.
§ 20-108 JUNK YARDS PROHIBITED.
   No junk yard, whether for automobiles, machinery or other junk equipment
shall be operated, and no license shall be issued for such a business;
provided, that this section shall not apply to junk dealers who maintain their
business in a completely enclosed building or which is fenced from the view of
the general public.
§ 20-109 IMITATING SIGNAL OR CALL FOR POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   Anyone imitating the signal or call for a police officer, either through
mischief or otherwise, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 20-110 GAINING ADMISSION TO PUBLIC EVENT WITHOUT PAYING THEREFOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, where an admission charge is made, to
gain admittance to any athletic contest or other public event, without paying
the price of admission, unless such person is a participant or otherwise
invited.
§ 20-111 POSTING NOTICE OR SIGN ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, notice or sign on private
property, without written consent of the owner or lessee of the property.
§§ 20-112—20-130 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC POLICY
§ 20-131 DISRUPTION OF PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt the proceedings of any
public meeting, or be guilty of disorderly conduct therein, or to commit any
contempt of either.
§ 20-132 COMMUNICATION WITH PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except authorized officials, to take
anything to, or in any way communicate with, any prisoner confined unless
permission to do so shall have first been obtained from the Chief of Police or
his or her deputies.
§ 20-133 APPROACHING WITHIN 20 FEET OF PERSON BEING ARRESTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully approach nearer
than 20 feet to any police officer who has made, is making or is attempting to
make an arrest.
§ 20-134 PUBLIC PROPERTY TO BE RETURNED UPON SEPARATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any employee or member of Council to fail to return
any public property entrusted to him or her, including this code, upon his or
her resignation or any other reason for separation from municipal employment or
service.
§ 20-135 FAILURE TO STOP ON COMMAND OF OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly fail or
refuse to stop when signaled, hailed or commanded to stop by a police officer
or other officer.
§§ 20-136—20-150 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
§ 20-151 FAILING TO REMOVE DOORS FROM ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard an icebox,
refrigerator, ice chest or any type of airtight container, of a capacity
sufficient to contain any child, to neglect, prior to such abandonment, to
remove the door, lid or other device for the closing thereof or for any owner,
lessee or other person in charge of property to knowingly permit any such
airtight container to be placed on property under his or her control.
§ 20-152 UNLAWFUL TO LEAVE ABANDONED WELLS OPEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant to permit or allow any
abandoned well to remain open and unprotected, curbed or fenced in or any place
or premises within the corporate limits.
Statutory reference:
   Maintaining open and unprotected wells, see S.C. Code § 16-3-1020
§ 20-153 UNLAWFUL TO THROW OBJECT INJURING PERSON OR DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any stone, stick or other
object whereby any person may be, or shall be, hit or hurt, or any window
broken or other property belonging to another damaged or destroyed.
§ 20-154 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a nuisance in
the corporate limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term NUISANCE may include
everything that gives offense to senses, violates or obstructs reasonable and
comfortable use of property.
§§ 20-155—20-170 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. PARTIES TO CRIME
§ 20-171 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT RELATING TO CRIMINAL ACT.
   Every person who, whether present or absent, commits, attempts to commit,
conspires to commit or aids or abets in the commission of any act violating any
provision of this code, whether individually or in connection with one or more
other persons or as a principal, agent or accessory, shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of such violation. Every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or
willfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs another to
violate any such provisions shall be guilty of such offense.
CHAPTER 21: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 22: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
22-1   “Public park” defined
   
22-2   Injury to shrubbery, flowers and the like
   
22-3   Injury to structures or personalty
   
22-4   Leaving trash, paper and the like in public park
   
22-5   Bills, posters and advertising prohibited
   
22-6   Selling in public parks
   
22-7   Intoxicating liquors, disorderly conduct and the like
   
22-8   Motor vehicle traffic in parks
   
22-9   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to establish rules and regulations concerning municipal
parks, see S.C. Code § 51-15-20
§ 22-1 “PUBLIC PARK” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARK. Refers to municipally owned or municipally maintained parks,
whether located wholly within, wholly without, or partly within and partly
without, the corporate limits.
§ 22-2 INJURY TO SHRUBBERY, FLOWERS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, pluck, walk, step on or in any
way injure or destroy any shrub, flowers or bush, or to dig, uproot, tear up or
injure any sod or grass in any public park, or to walk, drive, sit or stand
upon any space or area in such public park where a “keep off” sign has been
posted.
§ 22-3 INJURY TO STRUCTURES OR PERSONALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write on, carve, cut, deface, injure
or break any part of any building, grandstand or other structure, or any chair,
seats and the like, in any public park.
§ 22-4 LEAVING TRASH, PAPER AND THE LIKE IN PUBLIC PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, leave or permit to be
deposited or left in any public park any trash, paper, box, can, bottle, food
fragments or other unsightly substance, except in receptacles provided
especially for that purpose, or to dump or throw any trash, stones, bottles,
food fragments or refuse of any kind in any lake, stream, swimming pools or
fountains in any such park.
§ 22-5 BILLS, POSTERS AND ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any bill posters or to post,
tack up or otherwise display any bills or advertising signs, or to distribute
handbills in any public park.
§ 22-6 SELLING IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except such as may have a permit or
concession from the council, to sell or offer for sale within any public park
any cold drinks, fruits, eatables, cigars, tobacco or other merchandise.
§ 22-7 INTOXICATING LIQUORS, DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry into any public park any
intoxicating liquors, to drink the same therein, or to be therein under the
influence of intoxicants, or to use any profane, vulgar or indecent language,
or to commit any nuisance, or to engage in any unseemly, obnoxious or
disorderly conduct, or to engage in any game of chance, or in betting or
wagering in any such park.
§ 22-8 MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be driven in any public park
at a greater rate of speed than fixed by traffic signs erected therein, nor
shall any such vehicle be parked in any of the driveways without being drawn
well to the right, so as not to impede, obstruct or interfere with the free
passage on such driveway of other vehicles and traffic. At night, both moving
and parked motor vehicles shall be provided with adequate lights, front and
rear.
§ 22-9 PENALTY.
   Maximum punishment for violation of rules or regulations in this chapter
shall not exceed that permitted under state law.
CHAPTER 23: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 24: PLANNING
Section
   
24-1   Membership
   
24-2   Organizations, meetings, rules, staff and finances
   
24-3   General powers and duties
Statutory reference:
   Local Planning Commission, see S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310 et seq.
§ 24-1 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members to be appointed
by the City Council. The terms of office of the members shall be for four
years, except that of the five members first appointed, one shall be appointed
for a term of one year, one for two years, one for three years and two for four
years.
   (B)   Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the Mayor and City Council who shall also have the authority to remove any
member for cause, on written charges, after due deliberation. All members shall
serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred
in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. 89-90-5, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 24-2 ORGANIZATIONS, MEETINGS, RULES, STAFF AND FINANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from among its members. The term of the Chairperson and other officers shall be
one year with eligibility for reelection. It shall appoint a secretary who may
be an officer or an employee of the governing authority or of the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its recommendations, transactions, findings
and determinations; and shall meet on a regularly-scheduled basis as determined
by the Commission in its bylaws or at the call of the Chairperson or governing
body.
   (B)   All meetings of the Planning Commission at which official action is
taken shall be open to the public, and all records of the Commission shall be a
public record. The Commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may
deem necessary for its work and may make expenditures for salaries of any
employees and staff, contracts with consultants and for the purchase of
required equipment and supplies. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive
of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriate for said purpose by the City
Council.
(Ord. 89-90-5, passed 11-21-1989)
§ 24-3 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   From and after the time when the Planning Commission shall have
organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its bylaws, then
said Commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set
forth in Act 487, South Carolina Acts of 1967, as amended.
   (B)   In general, the Planning Commission shall have the power to:
      (1)   Periodically recommend revisions to the comprehensive plan and
program for the development of its jurisdiction;
      (2)   Prepare and recommend for adoption to the appropriate governing
authority or authorities as a means for implementing the plan and program:
         (a)   Zoning ordinances or resolutions and maps and appropriate
revisions thereof for its jurisdiction;
         (b)   Regulations for the subdivision of land and appropriate
revisions thereof within its jurisdiction and to administer the regulations
that may be adopted; and
         (c)   An official map and appropriate revision thereof showing the
exact location of existing or proposed public streets, highways and utility
rights-of-way and public building sites, together with regulations to control
the erection of buildings or other structures or changes in land use within
such rights-of-way, building sites or open spaces within its political
jurisdiction or a specified portion thereof.
      (3)   Establishing principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (4)   Preparing and recommending to the City Council ordinances for
adoption promoting orderly growth and improvement of the area;
      (5)   Determining whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area;
      (6)   Reviewing and recommending to the City Council any needed changes
in the zoning ordinance and the official zoning map of the city; as well as the
subdivision regulations, official map and other codes, ordinances and controls
related to the locality’s development; and
      (7)   Keeping the City Council and the general public informed and
advised as to these matters.
(Ord. 89-90-5, passed 11-21-1989)
CHAPTER 25: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 26: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
26-1   Mobile (Roll-A-Waste) refuse containers required for residential
collection; commercial in certain instances
   
26-2   First mobile container furnished free; additional furnished at cost
   
26-3   Maintenance of containers; replacements
   
26-4   Responsibility to place for collection
   
26-5   Physically handicapped service
   
26-6   Cleaning containers
   
26-7   Unlawful to damage, destroy or remove containers
   
26-8   Collectors to exercise reasonable care
   
26-9   Interfering with collection practices
   
26-10   Extent of service
   
26-11   Excess solid waste
   
26-12   Placing dead animals prohibited
   
26-13   Storage areas to be kept clean of litter
   
26-14   Other collections; commercial
   
26-15   Industrial and manufacturing
   
26-16   Apartments, complexes
   
26-17   Building materials
   
26-18   Tree limbs, underbrush and the like; leaves and lawn clippings
   
26-19   Special waste collection surcharge
   
26-20   Littering of solid waste prohibited
   
26-21   Administration and enforcement
   
26-22   Fees for garbage collection
Statutory reference:
   Full cost disclosure by local governments concerning solid waste management,
see S.C. Code § 44-96-90
   Solid waste management; storage, transportation and collection of municipal
solid wastes, see S.C. Code §§ 44-96-10 et seq.
§ 26-1 MOBILE (ROLL-A-WASTE) REFUSE CONTAINERS REQUIRED FOR RESIDENTIAL
COLLECTION; COMMERCIAL IN CERTAIN INSTANCES.
   (A)   Mobile refuse containers, also called Roll-A-Waste containers, of not
less than 80 nor more than 95-gallon capacity, shall be required for resident
collection and at such commercial establishments as may be required by the City
Administrator. Such containers shall be so constructed that they can be emptied
by lifting devices mounted on refuse collection trucks. All containers shall be
subject to the approval of the Administrator.
   (B)   All users designated as Roll-A-Waste Cart users will be issued a Roll-
A-Waste receptacle. All commercial users deemed to require dumpsters will be
responsible for the purchase of said user’s dumpster. If replacement becomes
necessary due to misuse, the receptacle shall be replaced at the customer’s
expense.
§ 26-2 FIRST MOBILE CONTAINER FURNISHED FREE; ADDITIONAL FURNISHED AT COST.
   (A)   One mobile container has been furnished free to each single-family
dwelling, unless other arrangements have been made by the Administrator.
Additional containers may be furnished at invoice cost, if one is required.
   (B)   Containers shall remain the property of the city and at the place
assigned for the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
occupants.
§ 26-3 MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS; REPLACEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of each household for the maintenance
and cleanliness of containers to the degree of which they are capable.
   (B)   Containers which are damaged, destroyed or stolen through abuse,
neglect or improper use by the user shall be replaced at the expense of the
user. Containers which are damaged, destroyed or stolen through no abuse,
neglect or improper use of the user shall be repaired or replaced at no charge
to the user. The container shall not be damaged, destroyed, defaced or removed
from the premises by any person. Markings and identification devices on the
containers, including those purchased by the users, except as placed or
specifically permitted by the city are expressly prohibited and shall be
regarded as damage to the containers.
§ 26-4 RESPONSIBILITY TO PLACE FOR COLLECTION.
   It shall be the responsibility of each user to place refuse for collection
at the proper time in the proper manner as provided herein. No municipal
employee shall assist any user therein, except those residences hereinafter
approved for backdoor service. All refuse, as it pertains to single residences
where mobile containers are involved, shall be placed at the curb for
collection no earlier than one hour before sunset the day before collection and
no later than 7:00 a.m. on the day of collection. All mobile containers shall
be removed from the curb no later than 7:00 p.m. the day of collection.
§ 26-5 PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED SERVICE.
   Households where no one is physically able to roll the carts to the street
for collection may be given back-door service on a once-per-week basis.
Applications for back-door service shall be subject to approval by the
Administrator.
§ 26-6 CLEANING CONTAINERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the user or users to keep his, her or
their container reasonably clean and free of water.
§ 26-7 UNLAWFUL TO DAMAGE, DESTROY OR REMOVE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy or move from its
proper location any container.
§ 26-8 COLLECTORS TO EXERCISE REASONABLE CARE.
   Collectors shall exercise reasonable care when handling containers and shall
not willfully break, deface or injure same. Failure to comply with this section
shall be grounds for dismissal.
§ 26-9 INTERFERING WITH COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   No person shall interfere with or otherwise deter the normal refuse
collection process by tampering with refuse containers or their contents.
§ 26-10 EXTENT OF SERVICE.
   Mobile containers shall be serviced not less than one time each week; twice,
if practical.
§ 26-11 EXCESS SOLID WASTE.
   Should excess solid waste be generated by the user, above the capacity of
the mobile container, such excess shall be bagged or boxed in a throw-away
container and placed neatly beside the mobile container. User may be required
to purchase a second container, should such practice continue unduly.
§ 26-12 PLACING DEAD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   Dead animals shall not be placed in containers.
§ 26-13 STORAGE AREAS TO BE KEPT CLEAN OF LITTER.
   It shall be the responsibility of the user to keep the container storage
areas and curbside pickup points free of litter. Containers shall not be filled
to overflow capacity, to prevent the possibility of litter distribution when
containers are emptied.
§ 26-14 OTHER COLLECTIONS; COMMERCIAL.
   The Public Works Superintendent shall determine whether a commercial
customer will be charged for a Roll-A-Waste Cart or a dumpster. He or she shall
make such decision based upon the needs of the user and such decision shall be
final subject only to review by City Council.
§ 26-15 INDUSTRIAL AND MANUFACTURING.
   Industrial and manufacturing establishments located within the corporate
limits may be serviced, if requested to do so, by self-loading equipment
utilizing the bulk container. It shall be the responsibility of said
establishments to furnish the container. Monthly service charges, if any, may
be established by the Council, based on the number of containers and frequency
of pickups.
§ 26-16 APARTMENTS, COMPLEXES.
   Apartment buildings and complexes of four or more single units shall be
serviced by self-loading equipment utilizing the bulk container. It shall be
the responsibility of the apartment building or complex owner to furnish the
bulk container and to keep the area around same clean and free of trash, litter
and the like. The number of bulk containers shall be determined by the
Administrator or other person authorized by him or her.
§ 26-17 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall use mobile and/or bulk containers as a
depository for brick, blocks, rocks, ashes, acids or any other item destructive
to the container, from a weight or corrosive stand-point, along with residue
from residential or commercial construction. Every contractor, carpenter or
builder or the property owner, after completion or during the construction or
alteration of a building, shall remove all trash incident to such construction
or alteration at his or her own expense.
§ 26-18 TREE LIMBS, UNDERBRUSH AND THE LIKE; LEAVES AND LAWN CLIPPINGS.
   (A)   All tree limbs, branches, underbrush and other similar yard waste
shall be placed at, not in, the street or curb for collection so as not to
block the sidewalk or street. All tree branches to be collected shall be no
greater than six inches in diameter and six feet in length; exceptions to be
approved by the Administrator.
   (B)   Leaves and lawn clippings shall be placed in bags.
§ 26-19 SPECIAL WASTE COLLECTION SURCHARGE.
   Any household, commercial establishment or industry requiring handling of
special waste shall be subject to a monthly surcharge as may be established by
the Council.
§ 26-20 LITTERING OF SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, any form of solid waste
on any public or private property. Such material shall be prepared and placed
for collection as specified in this chapter.
§ 26-21 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The administration of the provisions of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the Street Department; enforcement, the responsibility of the
Police Department.
§ 26-22 FEES FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   The fees charged by the city for garbage collection, and criteria
therefor, shall be as determined from time to time by ordinance.
   (B)   Billing shall occur monthly with utility billing and will be based on
availability of service, not the actual number of pick-ups.
   (C)   Payment shall be made at the time utility bill is paid. Nonpayment
shall result in discontinued utility service, as well as garbage collection
service.
(Ord. 14, passed 7-16-1991; Ord. 00-04, passed 6-20-2000; Ord. 10-01B, passed
6-23-2010; Ord. 11-02B, passed 6-28-2011; Ord. 12-02A, passed 3-6-2012; Ord.
12-03B, passed 6-26-2012; Ord. 13-06B, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2014-03B, passed
6-17-2014; Ord. 2015-01B, passed 6-23-2015; Ord. 2017-02-A, passed 6-27-2017)
CHAPTER 27: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 28: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
Section
Article I. In General
   
28-1   Control over maintenance and construction
   
28-2   Maintenance of new streets
   
28-3   Street name changes prohibited
   
28-4   Approval of names of new streets by Council
   
28-5   State highways excepted
   28-6—28-20   Reserved
Article II. Unlawful Acts
   
28-21   Damaging public property; burning
   
28-22   Doors and gates opening onto sidewalks
   
28-23   Draining rain water on sidewalks/streets prohibited
   
28-24   Draining water, oil and other liquids onto streets or sidewalks
prohibited
   
28-25   Throwing glass, nails, dangerous substances on streets or sidewalks
   
28-26   Vehicles leaking or scattering load; damaged vehicles
   
28-27   Vehicles, handcarts and the like on sidewalks; skating
   
28-28   Breaking, removing street lights
   
28-29   Breaking, destroying curbs prohibited; permit required for entrance to
property
   
28-30   Obstruction of drains, ditches, water courses and the like
   
28-31   Obstructions to vision at street intersections
   
28-32   Owner to remove obstruction
   
28-33   City may remove; owner to pay costs
   
28-34   Logs, lumber, crossties and barrels to be securely chained
   
28-35   Blocking of streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
28-35.1   Historic Conservation District
   
28-36   Building materials in streets, sidewalks and public places;
obstructions
   
28-37   Protection by barricades, lights
   
28-38   Vehicles with flanges, other devices
   
28-39   Games in streets
   
28-40   Garbage, trash, offensive matter on streets, lots and the like
   
28-41   Removal of tree waste
   
28-42   Repair of fences
   
28-43   Sidewalk sales
   
28-44   Posting on public property
   
28-45   Posting property in which municipality has interest or regulatory power
   
28-46   Handbills and placards prohibited on public property
   
28-47   Municipal or state signs
   
28-48   Signs and signboards
   28-49—28-60   Reserved
Article III. Excavations
   
28-61   Excavation permit required
   
28-62   Excavations to be restored
   
28-63   Excavator responsible for repairs for one year
   
28-64   Danger signals required at excavations
   
28-65   Removing danger signals at excavations
   28-66—28-80   Reserved
Article IV. Parades
   
28-81   “Parade” defined
   
28-82   Permit
   
28-83   Application
   
28-84   Application contents
   
28-85   Issuance of permit
   
28-86   Parade permit contents
   
28-87   Alternate permit
   
28-88   Compliance by permit holder
   
28-89   Appeal procedure
   
28-90   Revocation of permit
   
28-91   Public conduct during parades
   
28-92   Obstructing streets by assembling
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of permits to charitable groups to solicit funds from motorists,
see S.C. Code § 5-27-910
   Municipality may establish a farm marketing center, see S.C. Code § 46-19-
110
   Repair of streets, ways and bridges in municipalities of over 1,000, see
S.C. Code § 5-27-120
   Streets and sidewalks, see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-10 et seq.
§ 28-1 CONTROL OVER MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   The Administrator shall approve the construction and maintenance of streets
and shall employ such number of persons to work on the streets as may be
needed.
§ 28-2 MAINTENANCE OF NEW STREETS.
   When any application is made to the Council to assume the maintenance of any
proposed new street, the following requirements shall be complied with.
   (A)   The right-of-way shall be furnished with a minimum width of 60 feet.
   (B)   Plans and profiles for the proposed street shall be submitted to the
Council for review and approval.
   (C)   When plans and profiles are approved by the Council, the applicant
shall cause the street to be constructed to line and grade, the necessary
drainage structures installed and adequate inlet and outlet ditches constructed
in a manner approved by the Council. The approved construction plans shall be
submitted to the Council at the time the request to accept the street for
maintenance is made.
§ 28-3 STREET NAME CHANGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall name any currently unnamed street or change the name of any
existing street except by authority of the Council.
§ 28-4 APPROVAL OF NAMES OF NEW STREETS BY COUNCIL.
   No person shall construct any new street within the corporate limits without
approval of the names to be assigned to such street by the Council.
§ 28-5 STATE HIGHWAYS EXCEPTED.
   This chapter shall not apply to streets under the supervision and control of
the State Department of Transportation (SCDOT).
§§ 28-6—28-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. UNLAWFUL ACTS
§ 28-21 DAMAGING PUBLIC PROPERTY; BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, mutilate or deface any public
property within the corporate limits, including burning of leaves or other
matter injurious to asphalt pavements.
§ 28-22 DOORS AND GATES OPENING ONTO SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to maintain any door or
gate upon his or her premises so as to swing across or into any sidewalk or
street.
§ 28-23 DRAINING RAIN WATER ON SIDEWALKS/STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct, erect or
maintain a house or building of any description in such manner that rain water
may flow from the roof, eaves, cornices, gutters or other part thereof, down
any sidewalk or street so as to cause holes, depressions, unevenness, gullies
or other defect or damage to such sidewalk or street.
   (B)   Every person owning any lot which drains toward a sidewalk shall
provide such suitable and proper drainage under such sidewalk as will deliver
the gutter and drainage water from such lot to the drainage system of the
adjoining streets.
§ 28-24 DRAINING WATER, OIL AND OTHER LIQUIDS ONTO STREETS OR SIDEWALKS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit water, oil or other liquid of
any kind, from any store, residence or other building, to fall or flow upon any
part of any street or sidewalk; provided, that sprinkling of a street to lay
dust is not hereby forbidden.
§ 28-25 THROWING GLASS, NAILS, DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place on any of the streets
or sidewalks any glass in any shape or form, tin cans, nails, brick, pieces of
iron, sticks or any other substance likely to injure any person, animal or
vehicle thereon.
§ 28-26 VEHICLES LEAKING OR SCATTERING LOAD; DAMAGED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of every vehicle
employed in removing or carrying any dirt, sawdust, sand, coal or any other
materials liable to be blown by the wind or fall by gravity, or any manure or
filth or offensive matter of any kind or description, along or over any public
street, to fail to keep the same in such tight and secure condition that such
matter shall not be scattered or suffered to fall on any such streets.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, when removing a wrecked or
damaged vehicle from a street, to fail to remove any glass or other injurious
substance dropped thereon from said vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Litter to be covered to prevent spillage during transportation, see S.C.
Code § 48-53-20
§ 28-27 VEHICLES, HANDCARTS AND THE LIKE ON SIDEWALKS; SKATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, propel or park any
automobile, motorcycle, wheelbarrow, handcart or other vehicle upon any
sidewalk, except as may be necessary in entering or leaving the premises or
buildings. This section shall not apply to children under the age of 12 years
who may ride bicycles and tricycles on residential sidewalks, other than in the
main Business District, at a speed less than 15 mph.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate on any sidewalk in a
manner to create a danger to pedestrians.
§ 28-28 BREAKING, REMOVING STREET LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break any lamp or electric light or
to remove any electric light bulb or otherwise tamper with street lights.
§ 28-29 BREAKING, DESTROYING CURBS PROHIBITED; PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ENTRANCE TO
PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or destroy the curbing of any
street, to otherwise deface the same or to construct any entrance into property
on any of the paved streets, unless such person shall have first obtained a
permit in writing to do so from the Council.
§ 28-30 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAINS, DITCHES, WATER COURSES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to obstruct, or cause
to be obstructed, any drains, ditches or water courses within the corporate
limits. Every person owning, controlling or in possession of land, through
which or though part of which a stream, ditch, gully or any natural drain runs,
shall keep the bed of same free from obstructions. They shall not allow any
growth of weeds or shrubbery on or along the banks thereof which will prevent
sunlight from entering therein.
   (B)   When overflows or floods form pools or “backwaters” therein, they
shall be promptly drained.
§ 28-31 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   On corner lots there shall be no obstruction to vision between a
height of two feet and a height of ten feet measured above the average
elevation of the existing surfaces of the intersecting streets at their center
lines, within the area formed by joining points on the property lines, measured
as follows.
      (1)   On property lines abutting streets 50 feet or less in right-of-way
width, the points on the property lines shall be not less than 25 feet from the
lot corner.
      (2)   On property lines abutting streets more than 50 feet in right-of-
way width, the points on the property lines shall be 50 feet from the lot
corner.
   (B)   This restriction shall not apply to buildings in Business Districts.
§ 28-32 OWNER TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTION.
   Whenever it shall be determined by the Council that there exists on any
privately owned property, located at any street intersection, any tree, bush,
shrubbery, plant, fence or other obstruction which obstructs the view of
pedestrians or vehicular traffic, interferes with the safe and orderly movement
of traffic or creates a dangerous condition, the owner and occupant of such
property shall, within ten days after official written notice, remove such
obstruction. Any such owner or occupant who shall fail or refuse to remove any
such obstruction shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 28-33 CITY MAY REMOVE; OWNER TO PAY COSTS.
   If any such property owner shall fail or refuse to remove any such
obstruction, after written notice to do so, as provided above, the costs of
such removal shall be charged to the property owner. It shall be a lien on such
property and shall be added to and payable with the taxes on such property.
§ 28-34 LOGS, LUMBER, CROSSTIES AND BARRELS TO BE SECURELY CHAINED.
   No person shall haul round logs, pulpwood logs, lumber, crossties or barrels
over or upon any street unless they shall be safely and securely fastened, with
chains, on such vehicle. The links of such chain shall be made of material of
not less dimension than one-half inch in diameter.
§ 28-35 BLOCKING OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any obstruction upon or cause
to be obstructed in any manner any street, sidewalk, public way or part
thereof, so as to render the passage of persons, vehicles or other travel
thereon difficult, inconvenient, dangerous or impossible except as otherwise
provided in this chapter; provided, that this section shall not apply to any
employee of the municipality, county or state while such employee is
immediately and actively engaged in the maintenance, improvement or
construction of utilities, street, sidewalk or public way.
§ 28-35.1 HISTORIC CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
28-31,
28-35 or any other provision of the code that part of the city designated as
“The Historic Conservation District,” the city shall have the right to place
shrubbery, trees, benches or other items in any public area of the “district”
which in its opinion enhances the aesthetic beauty of the “district” area.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2005)
§ 28-36 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES;
OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Building materials shall not be placed on any sidewalk, street or
public place, unless official permission is first obtained. It shall be the
duty of the person desiring to use the streets to obtain permission to lay such
material thereon, and otherwise to obstruct such places, for the purpose of
erecting a building adjoining said street, where some obstruction thereof is
necessary, to estimate what space will be needed and for what length of time
the obstruction will be necessary. Official permission may be given
accordingly, imposing then and from time to time such reasonable conditions as
may be considered necessary or proper for the protection of the public and
public property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to remove, or
cause to be removed, any obstruction on any street, highway or other public
place, when officially requested to do so.
   (C)   No permission shall be granted for the placing of a permanent
obstruction on any of the streets, highways or other public places.
§ 28-37 PROTECTION BY BARRICADES, LIGHTS.
   While the obstructions provided for in this article remain on the streets,
sidewalks or other public places, suitable safeguards by day and by night shall
be maintained by the contractor, owner or person in charge of the work, for the
protection of the public, by roping off, using lanterns and other proper means.
§ 28-38 VEHICLES WITH FLANGES, OTHER DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, drive or cause to be driven
or operated, over, upon or across the paved streets or thoroughfare of the
city, any vehicle having wheels with flanges, ribs, clamps, spikes or other
devices attached to or a part of the wheel of such vehicle, that would injure
or damage the paved surface of said streets or thoroughfares.
§ 28-39 GAMES IN STREETS.
   No person shall play any games, throw any rock or missiles on any public
street.
§ 28-40 GARBAGE, TRASH, OFFENSIVE MATTER ON STREETS, LOTS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw or cause to be
thrown any garbage, trash or other offensive matter onto any sidewalk, street,
lot or public place.
§ 28-41 REMOVAL OF TREE WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person trimming trees, on or over any street or
sidewalk, to fail to remove promptly any branches, limbs or other waste caused
by such cutting, trimming or digging.
§ 28-42 REPAIR OF FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or owners of lands, or lots of lands,
within the corporate limits to fail to keep in good repair the fences on same,
which are adjacent to any street or alley. All dilapidated fences adjacent to
streets or alleys are hereby declared a nuisance and may be removed.
§ 28-43 SIDEWALK SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any merchant to display merchandise on the
sidewalks in such manner as to block more than one-half of the sidewalk, it
being the intent of Council that at least one-half of the sidewalk in front of
the premises of any business shall be free for the flow of traffic unhindered
by any display of merchandise.
§ 28-44 POSTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, business, political or
otherwise, or any notice or sign of any nature on public property within the
corporate limits, by the use of a placard, picture, paper, circular, printing
or by any means or device whatsoever without prior approval of the City
Council.
§ 28-45 POSTING PROPERTY IN WHICH MUNICIPALITY HAS INTEREST OR REGULATORY
POWER.
   It shall be unlawful to place any such advertisement, notice or sign of any
nature in any park, street or any other property such as telephone poles,
telegraph poles, electric poles or towers and the like thereof.
§ 28-46 HANDBILLS AND PLACARDS PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   When authorized by Council, no handbill or placard shall be
distributed within the corporate limits unless it is deposited in a secure
place where the wind will not blow it away. The placing of a handbill or
placard under a windshield wiper of a motor vehicle shall not be construed as a
deposit of same in a secure place.
   (B)   The attachment in any way of a handbill or placard to public property
or a pole or other equipment of a public utility is prohibited.
§ 28-47 MUNICIPAL OR STATE SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to remove, tear
down, deface or destroy any sign erected by municipal or state authorities.
§ 28-48 SIGNS AND SIGNBOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any sign or
signboard which is less than ten feet from the pavement or which extends more
than five feet across any sidewalk. None shall extend into the street. The
construction and placement of any such sign or signboard shall be subject to
approval by Council.
§§ 28-49—28-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. EXCAVATIONS
§ 28-61 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cut or excavate
a street or sidewalk in the corporate limits without having first obtained a
permit therefor from the city or the State Department of Transportation, except
in a bona fide emergency situation.
§ 28-62 EXCAVATIONS TO BE RESTORED.
   Any such cut or excavation shall be restored according to the standards of
the State Department of Transportation within a period of 24 hours. Special
consideration may be granted by the city or said Department due to extreme
weather conditions upon request.
§ 28-63 EXCAVATOR RESPONSIBLE FOR REPAIRS FOR ONE YEAR.
   In the event that said repair should sink or give way within one year, it
promptly shall be repaired by the person, firm or corporation making the
original cut or excavation within 72 hours of being notified by the city and/or
said Department.
§ 28-64 DANGER SIGNALS REQUIRED AT EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any trench, ditch or excavation
in any street, sidewalk or public place to remain open without a sufficient
number of lights or other safety devices properly displayed around same as
danger signals to prevent accidents to persons or property. Adequate lights
shall be displayed at night.
§ 28-65 REMOVING DANGER SIGNALS AT EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or extinguish any warning
device or light which may be placed as a signal during daylight hours, or at
night, to warn persons of danger from ditches, trenches, building materials,
scaffolds, excavations, impediments or obstacles of any description whatsoever.
§§ 28-66—28-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. PARADES
§ 28-81 “PARADE” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any march, procession, motorcade or promenade consisting of persons,
animals or vehicles, floats or a combination thereof, having a common purpose,
design, destination or goal, upon any street, park or public place in the town,
which parade, march, procession, motorcade or promenade does not comply with
normal and usual traffic regulation and control.
§ 28-82 PERMIT.
   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any parade,
unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the designated municipal
official, or the Chief of Police as designated by the official, under the
provisions of this article.
§ 28-83 APPLICATION.
   A person seeking the issuance of a permit under this article shall file an
application in person on forms provided between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. on Mondays through Fridays, legal holidays excepted, with the appropriate
official. An application for a permit shall be filed with the official not less
than ten days (Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excluded), nor more than
45 days, before the date upon which the parade is proposed to be conducted.
§ 28-84 APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
   (B)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for or on behalf of an
organization, the address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and of the authorized director or manager with responsibility for
the parade with the organization;
   (C)   The proposed date for conduct of the parade;
   (D)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
   (E)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles which,
will constitute the parade; the types of animals and description of all
vehicles, including a description of any sound amplification equipment or be
used;
   (F)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
   (G)   The location by street names of any assembly areas for the parade;
   (H)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at the
assembly area(s);
   (I)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for, any
person other than the applicant, the applicant shall file with the Chief of
Police a communication in writing from this person authorizing the applicant to
apply for the permit on his or her behalf; and
   (J)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination regarding issuance of a permit.
§ 28-85 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The municipal official shall issue a permit as provided for under this
article when, from a consideration of the application and from any other
information obtained by the Chief of Police, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so many
police officers to properly police the line of movement and contiguous areas as
to unreasonably diminish normal police protection of the town;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so many
emergency vehicles and ambulances so as to unreasonably diminish normal service
to the town;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not unduly interfere with the movement
of firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays;
   (G)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere or conflict with any
other parade for which a permit has been issued;
   (H)   No other parade permit has been granted, or is under consideration,
for any portion of the time sought by the applicant, nor shall a permit be
granted for a parade which will commence after sunset; and
   (I)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product or goods and is not designed to be held purely for private profit.
§ 28-86 PARADE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   The starting and conclusion times for the parade;
   (B)   What portions of the streets to be traversed may be occupied by the
parade;
   (C)   The maximum length of the parade in miles and fractions thereof;
   (D)   The assembly and disbanding areas and times for each;
   (E)   The amplification of sound permitted to be emitted from amplification
equipment be fixed and not variable;
   (F)   The permit holder shall advise all parade participants, either orally
or in writing, of the terms and conditions of the permit, prior to commencement
of the parade; and
   (G)   Any other information that the official and Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary for the protection of persons or property.
§ 28-87 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   (A)   The municipal official, in denying an application for a parade permit,
is empowered to authorize the conduct of a parade on a date, at a time or over
a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall file a written notice of acceptance with the
official at least seven days prior to the alternate commencement date.
   (B)   An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirement of, and
shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this article.
§ 28-88 COMPLIANCE BY PERMIT HOLDER.
   A permit holder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions, all
application commitments and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade
Chairperson or other person heading or leading the parade shall carry the
parade permit on his or her person during the parade.
§ 28-89 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any applicant aggrieved by the denial of a parade application, or of a
condition that he or she deems unreasonable, shall have the right to appeal to
the City Council. Notice of appeal shall be filed by the applicant in writing
with the presiding officer of the municipal governing body within two days of
the denial or notice of the condition; Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays
are excluded. The presiding officer shall place the appeal on the agenda for
the next regular meeting of the Board, provided there is a meeting scheduled
within ten days of the filing of the notice of appeal. If no regularly
scheduled meeting is scheduled within ten days after the filing of the notice
of appeal, the presiding officer shall call a special meeting to be held within
ten days of the filing of the notice of appeal. The applicant may agree, in
writing, to an extension of the time for holding this meeting. The governing
body shall consider the appeal and may reverse, affirm or modify in any regard
the determination of the official.
§ 28-90 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The official shall have the authority to revoke a permit issued by him or
her, upon violation of standards for issuance of said permit as set forth, or
when, by reason of disaster, emergency, public calamity, riot or other civil or
military disturbance, the safety of the public or property requires revocation.
Notice of the revocation shall be delivered in writing to the permit holder in
person or by certified mail.
§ 28-91 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede or interfere
with, any parade or public assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal
participating in a parade or public assembly.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade, unless specifically authorized to do so
by a law enforcement officer.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway,
street or road or part thereof constituting a part of the parade route. The
Chief of Police shall post “no parking” signs, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person
shall be liable for parking on a street where “no parking” signs are not posted
pursuant to this section.
§ 28-92 OBSTRUCTING STREETS BY ASSEMBLING.
   Any person who shall assemble a crowd or hold a public meeting in any street
without a parade permit, as provided in this chapter, shall, upon conviction,
be punished as set forth in §
1-7.
CHAPTER 29: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 30: TAXATION
Section
Article I. In General
   
30-1   Annual property tax
   
30-2   Basis of value of property for taxation; assessments
   
30-3   Assessed valuation entered on tax books; alterations
   
30-4   Due date of taxes on real property
   
30-5   Tax notices required; tax rate
   
30-6   Monthly accounting for collections
   
30-7   County Board of Assessment and Equalization
   
30-8   Taxes may be collected in installments
   30-9—30-20   Reserved
Article II. Delinquent Taxes
   
30-21   Municipal tax lien
   
30-22   Penalties
   
30-23   Property liable for distress and sale for delinquent taxes
   
30-24   Chattel tax may be recovered by distress or suit; notice
   
30-25   Delinquent tax collector’s notice to owner of mortgage
   
30-26   Execution costs; notice of delinquent taxes and the like
   
30-27   Sale of property; procedures
   
30-28   Payment of successful bidder; disposition of proceeds
   
30-29   Redemption of real property
   
30-30   Execution and delivery of tax title; costs and fees; overages
Statutory reference:
   Alternate sale of personalty, see S.C. Code §§ 12-49-910 through 12-49-970
   Alternative procedure for collection of property taxes, see S.C. Code §§ 12-
51-40 et seq.
   Any tax levied shall distinctly state the public purpose for which tax
proceeds will be applied, see S.C. Const. Art. X, § 5
   Authority of local governments to assess taxes and fees, see S.C. Code §§ 6-
1-300 et seq.
   Collection of delinquent ad valorem taxes by municipalities, see S.C. Code §
5-7-300
   Enforced collection of taxes generally, see S.C. Code §§ 12-49-10 through
12-49-90
   Local accommodations tax, see S.C. Code §§ 6-1-500 et seq.
   Local Hospitality Tax Act, see S.C. Code §§ 6-1-700 et seq.
   Municipal authority to exempt certain manufacturing establishments from ad
valorem taxation, see S.C. Const. Art. X, § 3(g)
   Municipal power to levy taxes on all property not otherwise exempted by
general law, see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-30 and 5-21-110
   Property tax levies shall be uniform, see S.C. Const. Art. X, § 6
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 30-1 ANNUAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The Council shall impose, by ordinance, an annual tax on all real estate and
all personal property within the corporate limits, on all insurance companies
and other corporations and the real estate of churches and school associations
from which such church and school associations draw a revenue or which is
intended to be rented out for such a purpose, except such as is exempt from
taxation under the Constitution and laws of this state, as will yield an amount
necessary for General Fund operating purposes and for debt service
requirements. Any change in the tax shall be by ordinance.
§ 30-2 BASIS OF VALUE OF PROPERTY FOR TAXATION; ASSESSMENTS.
   The basis of value for taxation of real estate, personal property or other
taxable property shall be such assessment as levied by the County Auditor in
any particular tax year.
§ 30-3 ASSESSED VALUATION ENTERED ON TAX BOOKS; ALTERATIONS.
   The Municipal Clerk shall enter upon the tax books the assessed valuation as
provided in the preceding section and as may be directed by a supplemental tax
return issued by the County Auditor.
Statutory reference:
   Municipality may copy assessment from County Auditor’s books, see S.C. Code
§ 12-37-40
§ 30-4 DUE DATE OF TAXES ON REAL PROPERTY.
   All real property taxes shall be due and payable without penalty between
September 1 and January 14 of each year.
§ 30-5 TAX NOTICES REQUIRED; TAX RATE.
   (A)   On or before September 1 of each year, the person designated by the
City Council may mail to each owner of taxable property a notice stating the
assessed value for taxation of each item of property and the tax thereon for
the current year. The notice shall recite the penalties for failure to pay the
tax.
   (B)   The tax rate shall be stated in the notice.
§ 30-6 MONTHLY ACCOUNTING FOR COLLECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall render an accounting to the Council on or before the tenth
day of each month for all taxes collected.
§ 30-7 COUNTY BOARD OF ASSESSMENT AND EQUALIZATION.
   (A)   All matters relating to the assessment and listing of property for
taxation or for the relief of taxpayers, shall be under the control of the
County Board of Assessment and Equalization.
   (B)   In case it shall be discovered by or reported to the Council, that
real or personal property is within the corporate limits subject to taxation,
but is not listed, or is listed on the Auditor’s books as being outside said
limits, or is under or over assessed, or is listed in the name of the wrong
person, or is a double entry, or is listed through either as being within the
corporate limits or in case any other irregularity appears or exists, such
irregularity shall be reported to the proper county or state officials to
ensure that no property properly liable for municipal taxes shall escape
taxation, its proper assessment or listing or be improperly taxed.
§ 30-8 TAXES MAY BE COLLECTED IN INSTALLMENTS.
   Pursuant to the S.C. Code § 5-21-120, taxes may be collected in such
installments.
§§ 30-9—30-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DELINQUENT TAXES
§ 30-21 MUNICIPAL TAX LIEN.
   The lien for unpaid taxes on personal property shall also attach to any
personal property subsequently acquired by the delinquent taxpayer. The City
Council may appoint a delinquent tax collector who shall have all rights and
powers hereby given either to him or her or to the County Treasurer or such
person designated by the City Council under this article.
§ 30-22 PENALTIES.
   (A)   A penalty of 10% shall be added January 15.
   (B)   An additional 5% penalty shall be added on March 15, and reasonable
expense not to exceed 5% of the delinquent taxes and penalties incurred in
connection with executions to enforce the payment of delinquent taxes and
penalties will also be added on March 15 at the time the execution is issued.
§ 30-23 PROPERTY LIABLE FOR DISTRESS AND SALE FOR DELINQUENT TAXES.
   All personal property subject to taxation shall be liable to distress and
sale for the payment of taxes, in the manner provided in this article, and all
real property returned delinquent by the County Treasurer or such other person
designated by the City Council upon which taxes shall not be paid by distress
or otherwise shall be seized and sold as provided in this article. The distress
and sale of personal property shall not be a condition precedent to seizure and
sale of any real property under this article.
§ 30-24 CHATTEL TAX MAY BE RECOVERED BY DISTRESS OR SUIT; NOTICE.
   (A)   If any chattel tax shall be unpaid at the time fixed for the payment
thereof or returned delinquent, as authorized by this article, the County
Treasurer may not only distrain property for the payment thereof, but may
recover the tax, with the penalties thereon, by action at law, proceedings in
attachment or other means authorized by law to be used by private individuals
in the collection of debts, which action or other proceedings shall be
prosecuted in the name of such Treasurer. If he or she shall die or go out of
office before the termination of such actions or proceedings or the final
collection of the money, or any judgment or order therein, his or her successor
or successors may, from time to time, be substituted as plaintiffs therein.
   (B)   The County Treasurer or the delinquent tax collector shall give notice
as below set out to the owner of a mortgage who has complied with state law.
The delinquent tax collector shall rely on the records kept by the clerk of
court for the county to determine which mortgage holder has complied with the
abovementioned code section.
§ 30-25 DELINQUENT TAX COLLECTOR’S NOTICE TO OWNER OF MORTGAGE.
   Notice of delinquent tax collector shall be similar to the following.
 
Notice is hereby given to               as the owner of a certain mortgage recorded in the office of the clerk of court in book #               , at page               , of the County of               , State of South
Carolina, that there are now due and unpaid taxes for the year 20 amounting to $               with accrued cost of               for which a tax execution has been issued and levy made upon the following described land
owned by               and embraced within said mortgage and that said land will be advertised for sale unless such taxes are paid within 20 days from the delivery hereof as provided by law.
Description of land levied upon:                                                                 
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                               
   City of Bishopville, S.C.
   /s/                                      
   Delinquent Tax Collector
Date:               
 
§ 30-26 EXECUTION COSTS; NOTICE OF DELINQUENT TAXES AND THE LIKE.
   On March 15, following the year in which the property taxes became due, the
County Treasurer shall add an execution cost of 5% of all property taxes and
penalties remaining unpaid.
§ 30-27 SALE OF PROPERTY; PROCEDURES.
   Upon failure of taxes, penalties and costs to be paid in full before 10:00
a.m. on sales day in October, following the year in which the taxes become due,
the property duly advertised shall be sold by the person officially charged
with the collection of delinquent taxes at public auction at the front door of
the City Hall beginning at 10:00 a.m. for cash, payable in full on same date.
In case the defaulting taxpayer has more than one item advertised to be sold,
no item shall be sold; provided, that the sale of one or more preceding items
sold shall bring sufficient funds to cover all of defaulting taxpayer’s
delinquent taxes, penalties and costs.
§ 30-28 PAYMENT OF SUCCESSFUL BIDDER; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   The successful bidder at the delinquent tax sale shall pay cash to the
person officially charged with the collection of delinquent taxes in the full
amount of the bid on the day of the sale. Upon payment, the person officially
charged with the collection of delinquent taxes shall furnish the purchaser a
receipt for the purchase money and annex such receipt to the duplicate warrant
with the endorsement thereon of his or her actions thereunder. All delinquent
tax sale monies collected shall be turned over to the Treasurer, as now
provided by law.
§ 30-29 REDEMPTION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   The defaulting taxpayer, any grantee from the owner or any mortgage or
judgment creditor may, within 12 months from the date of such delinquent tax
sale, redeem each item of real estate by paying to the person officially
charged with the collection of delinquent taxes, taxes, penalties and costs,
together with interest on the whole amount of the delinquent tax sale bid, in
accordance with S.C. Code § 12-51-90(B), if redeemed.
§ 30-30 EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF TAX TITLE; COSTS AND FEES; OVERAGES.
   (A)   Upon failure of the defaulting taxpayer, any grantee from the owner or
any mortgage or judgment creditor to redeem realty within the time period
hereinabove allowed for redemption, the person officially charged with the
collection of delinquent taxes shall, within 20 days, make a tax title to the
purchaser or the purchaser’s assignee. The delivery of the tax title to the
clerk of court shall be considered “putting the purchaser (or assignee) in
possession.” The tax title shall include, among other things, the name of the
defaulting taxpayer, the date of the execution, the date the realty was posted
and by whom, if such be the case, it shall also include the dates each
certified notice was mailed to the party or parties of interest, to whom mailed
and whether or not received by the addressee.
   (B)   The successful purchaser (or assignee) shall be responsible in the
amount of $75 for the cost of the tax title plus any documentary stamps
necessary to be affixed and recording fees. The successful purchaser (or
assignee) shall pay such amounts to the person officially charged with the
collection of delinquent taxes before delivery of the tax title to the clerk of
court and upon payment the person officially charged with the collection of
delinquent taxes shall then be responsible for promptly transmitting the tax
title to the clerk of court for recording and remitting the recording fee and
documentary stamp cost therewith.
   (C)   In case the tax sale of an item produced an overage in cash above the
full amount due in taxes, penalties and costs, such overage shall belong to the
defaulting taxpayer to be claimed or assigned according to law. If neither
claimed nor assigned within five years of date of public auction tax sale, the
overage shall escheat to the General Fund of the governing body. Prior to the
escheat date, unclaimed overages shall be kept in a separate account and shall
be invested so as not to be idle. The city shall be entitled to the earnings
for keeping the overage, such earnings to be settled quarterly. On escheat
date, the overage shall be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
CHAPTER 31: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 32: TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
Section
Article I. In General
   
32-1   Short title
   
32-2   Definitions
   
32-3   Powers of Council
   
32-4   State driver’s and vehicle licenses required
   
32-5   Responsibility of vehicle owner
   
32-6   Fixing traffic tickets unlawful
   
32-7   Through streets
   
32-8   Obedience to police officers
   32-9—32-20   Reserved
Article II. Moving Traffic
   
32-21   Adoption of state laws
   
32-22   Using vehicle for advertising; streets not for storage
   
32-23   Driving across private property to make turns
   
32-24   Moving on one-way streets
   
32-25   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
32-26   Operation of vehicles on play streets
   
32-27   Use of roller skates and similar devices
   
32-28   “U” turns unlawful where prohibited
   
32-29   Operation on streets under repair
   
32-30   Driving on sidewalks
   
32-31   No-passing zones
   
32-32   Spilling loads
   
32-33   Use of horn in quiet zones
   
32-34   Opening doors into traffic
   
32-35   Municipal vehicles; riding in/on unlawful
   
32-36   Prima facie speed limits
   
32-37   When lower speeds required
   
32-38   Authority to establish
   
32-39   Trucks, truck tractors
   
32-40   Racing or drag racing prohibited
   
32-41   Display for sale; washing, greasing and the like beside roadway
   32-42—32-60   Reserved
Article III. Processions
   
32-61   Permits required; funerals excepted
   
32-62   Driving into funeral, parade or procession prohibited
   
32-63   Drivers in processions to follow closely
   32-64—32-80   Reserved
Article IV. Parking, Standing, and Stopping
   
32-81   Manner of parking
   
32-82   Council to designate spaces; special spaces
   
32-83   Blocking streets and alleys
   
32-84   Narrow streets
   
32-85   Loading and unloading merchandise
   
32-86   When signs are erected
   
32-87   Marked spaces
   
32-88   At fire hydrants
   
32-89   Bus parking
   
32-90   Prohibited in certain areas adjacent to school
   
32-91   Handicapped persons, special provisions
   
32-92   Prohibited near designated hazardous or congested places
   
32-93   Double parking
   
32-94   Abandoned and derelict vehicles
   32-95—32-110   Reserved
Article V. Miscellaneous Traffic Offenses
   
32-111   Failure to dim lights
   
32-112   Unattended motor vehicle
   
32-113   Use of streets for sales and distribution prohibited
   
32-114   Circumstances requiring filing of written accident reports;
supplemental reports
   
32-115   Interfering with signs, signals or devices
   
32-116   Passing unlawfully
   
32-117   Careless operation of a motor vehicle
   32-118—32-130   Reserved
Article VI. Pedestrians
   
32-131   Obedience to traffic-control signals required
   
32-132   Use of right half of crosswalks
   
32-133   Walking on streets and roadways
   
32-134   Hitchhiking prohibited
   
32-135   Drivers to exercise due care with regard to pedestrians
   32-136—32-150   Reserved
Article VII. Bicycles and Mopeds
   
32-151   Regulations applicable to bicycles
   
32-152   Applicability of traffic laws
   
32-153   Duty to keep to right
   
32-154   Riding abreast
   
32-155   Riding bicycles on sidewalks in business district
   
32-156   Clinging to vehicles
   
32-157   Riding with “no hands”
   
32-158   Lights
   
32-159   Warning devices
   
32-160   Brakes
   
32-161   Mopeds
   32-162—32-180   Reserved
Article VIII. Railroad
   
32-181   Construction of crossings
   
32-182   Maintenance of crossings
   
32-183   Unlawful riding
   32-184—32-200   Reserved
Article IX. Truck and Bus Limitations
   
32-201   Prohibitions on certain trucks and buses on designated streets;
exceptions
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits by local authorities, signs and approval by
state, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1540
   General rules regarding maximum speed limits, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1520
   Local authority to regulate standing or parking of vehicles, see S.C. Code §
56-5-710(A)(1)
   Powers of local authorities concerning traffic laws, see S.C. Code § 56-5-
710
   Uniform Act regulating traffic on highways, local authority, see S.C. Code §
56-5-30
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 32-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “traffic ordinance.”
§ 32-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in S.C. Code §§ 56-5-
110 et seq. are hereby adopted and made a part of this code.
§ 32-3 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to the S.C. Code § 5-7-30, as amended, the Council shall have the
power and is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Regulate the operation and parking of vehicles within the corporate
limits by the erection or placing of proper signs or markers indicating
prohibited or limited parking, restricted speed areas, one-way streets, play
streets, through or arterial streets, “U” turns, school zones, and other
official traffic-control devices indicating the place or manner of operating or
parking vehicles, including “loading zones;”
   (B)   Regulate the movement of pedestrians upon the streets and sidewalks by
the erection or placement of proper signs or markers indicating the flow of
pedestrian traffic;
   (C)   Mark off traffic lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and
directing the flow of traffic; and
   (D)   Secure all necessary signs, markers or official traffic-control
devices to be erected or placed on any street or part of a street. The
existence of such signs, markers or official traffic-control devices at any
place shall be prima facie evidence that such signs, markers or official
traffic-control devices were erected or placed by and at the direction of the
Council and in accordance with the provisions of this section.
§ 32-4 STATE DRIVER’S AND VEHICLE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street without a valid
driver’s license issued by this or another state to operate the vehicle, and
said vehicle shall have current license tags.
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s license required, see S.C. Code § 56-1-20
§ 32-5 RESPONSIBILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER.
   No person shall allow or permit any vehicle registered in his or her name to
violate any ordinance. Such violations of ordinances shall be presumed to be
with the knowledge of the owner of such vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Offense by person owning or controlling vehicle, see S.C. Code § 56-5-6120
§ 32-6 FIXING TRAFFIC TICKETS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any official or employee of the city to “fix” any
ticket or summons issued by the Police Department for a violation of this
chapter or any other traffic ordinance.
§ 32-7 THROUGH STREETS.
   When signs are officially erected by the city, skeets and parts of streets
are hereby declared to constitute through streets. Traffic thereon shall be
subject to traffic control at all points or intersections where such signs are
provided.
§ 32-8 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
§§ 32-9—32-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. MOVING TRAFFIC
§ 32-21 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS.
   (A)   (1)   All vehicles shall be operated in accordance with and conformity
with all current state laws and this code or amendments thereto enacted, as
relating to the operation of vehicles. Such provisions are adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter as if set out herein, except those provisions
relating solely to the State Department of Transportation and those provisions
for which the penalty exceeds a fine of $200 or imprisonment for more than 30
days.
      (2)   Any person violating these provisions shall be, upon conviction,
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As they apply to municipalities, all requirements of S.C. Code Chapter
56, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter, as if set out in full herein. All owners of vehicles shall conform
with such requirements, and any person failing to conform therewith, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 32-22 USING VEHICLE FOR ADVERTISING; STREETS NOT FOR STORAGE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park any vehicle on any street for the
primary purpose of advertising without the prior approval of the Council.
   (B)   Streets shall not be used for storage by dealers, garages and the
like.
§ 32-23 DRIVING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY TO MAKE TURNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to use a
sidewalk area or any driveway, parking lot or business entrance at any
intersection to “cut a corner” purposely.
   (B)   It is the intention of this section to prohibit corner-cutting by
driving a vehicle from one street into another across any sidewalk and/or
driveway.
§ 32-24 MOVING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets, or parts of streets, whereon signs shall have been
erected designating them as “one-way streets,” vehicular traffic shall move
only in the indicated direction.
§ 32-25 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while it is in motion.
§ 32-26 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or any part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any portion
thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area.
§ 32-27 USE OF ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon
any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon
streets set aside as play streets when and as authorized by Council.
§ 32-28 “U” TURNS UNLAWFUL WHERE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to make a “U” turn or
other prohibited turn at any point where such turn is prohibited by posted
signs or to accomplish a “U” turn by deviously going into or through private
property adjoining a street where such turn is prohibited.
§ 32-29 OPERATION ON STREETS UNDER REPAIR.
   No person shall drive or cause to be driven any vehicle over any street
which is being repaired or paved or over any part of a street wholly closed to
travel.
§ 32-30 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride or drive a motor vehicle on the
sidewalks of any public streets, except for the purpose of crossing the same.
§ 32-31 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   The Council may determine those portions of any street where overtaking and
passing a vehicle proceeding in the same direction or driving to the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones. When
such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
Statutory reference:
   No-passing zone, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1890
§ 32-32 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless such vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom.
§ 32-33 USE OF HORN IN QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
§ 32-34 OPENING DOORS INTO TRAFFIC.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to traffic
for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
§ 32-35 MUNICIPAL VEHICLES; RIDING IN/ON UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person, or persons, to ride in or
on any municipal vehicle, without official authority to do so.
§ 32-36 PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed for
compliance with this article, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of the
limits specified in this article shall be lawful, such limits established in
this section being:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any business district; and
      (2)   Thirty-five mph in any residence district.
   (B)   Any speed in excess of such limits shall be prima facie evidence that
the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful.
§ 32-37 WHEN LOWER SPEEDS REQUIRED.
   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of this
article, drive at an appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway and when any special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or street conditions.
§ 32-38 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   (A)   The Council may, from time to time, establish speed limits different
from those set out in this article on particular streets or parts of streets or
in particular areas.
   (B)   When signs or markings are installed giving notice of such speed
limits, it shall be unlawful to exceed the indicated speed.
§ 32-39 TRUCKS, TRUCK TRACTORS.
   Where no special hazards exist, motor trucks and motor truck tractors of a
size greater than one and one-half tons shall obey signs posted giving notice
of special conditions.
§ 32-40 RACING OR DRAG RACING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a motor vehicle race or
contest for speed or acceleration on any public road, street or highway or to
aid, abet or assist in any manner whatsoever in any such race contest. It shall
be unlawful also for any owner of a motor vehicle to acquiesce in or permit his
or her car to be used by another in any motor vehicle race or contest for
speed.
§ 32-41 DISPLAY FOR SALE; WASHING, GREASING AND THE LIKE BESIDE ROADWAY.
   No person shall stand or park vehicles within any public right-of-way for
the principal purpose of displaying it for sale or washing, greasing or
repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency, without
prior approval of the Chief of Police.
§§ 32-42—32-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. PROCESSIONS
§ 32-61 PERMITS REQUIRED; FUNERALS EXCEPTED.
   No procession, or parade containing 100 or more persons or 25 or more
vehicles, excepting the armed forces of the United States, or of this state and
forces of the police and the departments, shall occupy, march or proceed along
any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the Council and such
other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply. Funerals shall be
exempt from this requirement.
§ 32-62 DRIVING INTO FUNERAL, PARADE OR PROCESSION PROHIBITED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral,
parade or other authorized procession while same are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required herein. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic signals or
police officers.
§ 32-63 DRIVERS IN PROCESSIONS TO FOLLOW CLOSELY.
   Each driver in a funeral, parade or other similar procession shall drive as
near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
§§ 32-64—32-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. PARKING, STANDING AND STOPPING
§ 32-81 MANNER OF PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel thereto,
headed in the direction of traffic and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle
within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway, unless as otherwise may be
permitted for angle parking and officially designated therefor.
§ 32-82 COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE SPACES; SPECIAL SPACES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to mark off
individual parking spaces on the streets of the city, to be designated by lines
painted or durably marked on the curbing or surface of the street. At each
space so marked, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized to place signs of a
durable structure on the streets and sidewalks of the city designating times of
limited parking.
   (B)   The Council, in its discretion, may designate special parking areas or
places for which sufficient cause is shown.
§ 32-83 BLOCKING STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street or alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except that
a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations, traffic signs
or a police officer.
§ 32-84 NARROW STREETS.
   When signs prohibiting parking are erected on narrow streets, no person
shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
§ 32-85 LOADING AND UNLOADING MERCHANDISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to load or unload merchandise from
trucks or other vehicles in front of any business, except where unable to load
or unload at the rear thereof and use of front-door loading does not constitute
a traffic hazard. Stopping times shall be reasonable.
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing and parking, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-2510 et seq.
§ 32-86 WHEN SIGNS ARE ERECTED.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any street whereon such signs are erected.
§ 32-87 MARKED SPACES.
   All vehicles parked in areas in which parking spaces have been marked off or
designated shall be parked entirely within a single space.
§ 32-88 AT FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful to park adjacent to fire hydrants in such a manner as
to interfere with emergency situations or vehicles.
§ 32-89 BUS PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park a bus on a public street, except in places
designated and marked as bus stops.
§ 32-90 PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS ADJACENT TO SCHOOL.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
§ 32-91 HANDICAPPED PERSONS, SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   To provide a system for its handicapped citizens and to facilitate their
freedom of movement throughout the community, it is hereby ordained that:
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, HANDICAPPED shall mean any person who
is totally blind, has a disability of coordination resulting from brain, spinal
or peripheral nerve damage, has an amputation of one or more of the lower
extremities, has an obvious physical disability that requires the use of a
wheelchair, braces, walker, crutches, prosthetic devices or any person who, in
the opinion of a licensed physician, has a physical impairment which renders
them restricted in their ability to move about freely, to include but not
limited to, persons of advanced age, or persons with respiratory, heart or
circulatory difficulties.
   (B)   Any person who is handicapped, as defined in this section, or any
person who regularly transports a handicapped person shall be allowed to park
in designated spaces reserved for handicapped persons, as specifically marked
by distinguishing letters or signs. As a condition of this privilege, a vehicle
transporting handicapped persons shall display a distinguishing parking decal
which shall display such information for enforcement purposes. Any person who
is handicapped, as defined in this section, shall obtain such a decal from the
State Department of Transportation, and the decal shall be displayed as
required by the Department.
   (C)   Any person or persons, without the decal described herein, who shall
park in parking places designated as being reserved for handicapped persons
shall be deemed to be in violation of this section and, upon conviction of such
offense, shall be fined $10; provided, however, that no person or persons who
have a license tag, decal or other emblem displayed on their vehicle, which
indicates a handicapped condition, whether a state motorist or a motorist from
another state, shall be subject to such fine.
§ 32-92 PROHIBITED NEAR DESIGNATED HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When signs are erected at an approach to hazardous or congested places no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
§ 32-93 DOUBLE PARKING.
   Except in emergencies, double parking, as commonly understood, is hereby
prohibited.
§ 32-94 ABANDONED AND DERELICT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned and derelict vehicles shall be disposed of in accordance
with S.C. Code §§ 56-5-5810 through 56-5-5950; such vehicles shall be removed
and disposed of in accordance with S.C. Code § 56-5-5850.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided for in other regulations or zoning ordinance,
no more than two abandoned and derelict vehicles shall be parked, kept or
stored on any residentially zoned premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be
in a state of major disassembly, disrepair or in the process of being stripped
or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an
approved spray booth.
      (2)   Abandoned and derelict vehicles may not be stored in the front yard
of any residentially zoned premises. The vehicles must be stored in the
backyard of the residentially zoned premises and screened behind a solid fence
or within an enclosed structure with no means to collect water. The number of
vehicles stored inside on an enclosed structure is not limited, provided the
enclosed structure is not in violation of any other regulation, town ordinance
or zoning ordinance. In the case of only one vehicle, the vehicle will not be
in violation of this article if covered with a cloth type car cover, not a
tarpaulin.
      (3)   Abandoned and derelict vehicles are described as vehicles that does
not have a current license tag displayed on the vehicle; and has nothing to do
with a vehicle being titled. Licensed vehicle(s) that are under repair for more
than 30 days are subject to the regulations of this article. For areas that are
not zoned residential, the city’s zoning ordinance provides specific
regulations related to the storage of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 10-1-2013; Ord. 15-02, passed 8-4-2015)
§§ 32-95—32-110 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC OFFENSES
§ 32-111 FAILURE TO DIM LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, from dusk to dawn, when
approaching another vehicle from an opposite direction, to fail to dim the
lights of his or her vehicle when it is within 300 feet of the approaching
vehicle.
§ 32-112 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway or street.
§ 32-113 USE OF STREETS FOR SALES AND DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to sell, solicit
sales or offer for distribution any merchandise, publication, handbill or
pamphlet while such person is standing in the street, areas reserved for
parking spaces, the areas reserved for loading and unloading, or to enter any
of the said areas for the purpose of sale and/or delivery of any said items.
§ 32-114 CIRCUMSTANCES REQUIRING FILING OF WRITTEN ACCIDENT REPORTS;
SUPPLEMENTAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in an injury
to or the death of. any person or total property damage to an apparent extent
of $50 or more shall, within 24 hours after such accident, forward a written
report of such accident to the Police Department, which report may be a copy of
the accident report required to be filed with the state under S.C. Code § 56-5-
1270.
   (B)   The Police Chief may require any such driver to file supplemental
reports whenever, in his or her opinion, the original report is insufficient.
He or she also may require witnesses of accidents to render reports to him or
her.
§ 32-115 INTERFERING WITH SIGNS, SIGNALS OR DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in any way alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal of any description, shield or insignia thereon or any
other part thereof.
§ 32-116 PASSING UNLAWFULLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to pass another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction when the passing vehicle is within 100 feet of an
intersection, approaching a curve, when a solid yellow line is located in the
lane of the passing vehicle or upon a hill or grade.
§ 32-117 CARELESS OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within
the city, without care, prudence and caution and without full regard for the
safety of persons or property. Any person failing to do so shall be guilty of
the offense of careless operation of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The operation of a motor vehicle, when the same or any of its
components is not in proper or safe condition, shall be prima facia evidence of
a violation of the provisions of this article.
   (C)   The violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, the violator shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$25 and not more than $200 or 30 days in jail.
§§ 32-118—32-130 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. PEDESTRIANS
§ 32-131 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   Pedestrians shall strictly comply with the directions of any official
traffic-control signal, device, marking and the like or police officer.
§ 32-132 USE OF RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of a
crosswalk.
§ 32-133 WALKING ON STREETS AND ROADWAYS.
   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a street shall, when practicable, walk only
on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may
approach from the opposite direction.
§ 32-134 HITCHHIKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Power of local authorities to require strict pedestrian compliance with
traffic-control signals, see S.C. Code § 56-5-3120
§ 32-135 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE WITH REGARD TO PEDESTRIANS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
any pedestrian upon any street and shall give warning by sounding the horn,
when necessary, and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child
or any confused or incapacitated person upon a street.
§§ 32-136—32-150 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. BICYCLES AND MOPEDS
§ 32-151 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO BICYCLES.
   This article shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or
upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those
exceptions stated herein.
§ 32-152 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this code, except as to special regulations herein and except as to
those provisions of this code which by their nature can have no application.
§ 32-153 DUTY TO KEEP TO RIGHT.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable.
§ 32-154 RIDING ABREAST.
   It shall be unlawful for persons on bicycles to ride more than two abreast,
except in parades, similar circumstances or on bicycle paths.
§ 32-155 RIDING BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride a bicycle on a sidewalk in the
city, except for the purpose of crossing the same when necessary; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to tricycles operated in residential
districts by children under 12 years of age.
   (B)   The riding of bicycles shall be prohibited on sidewalks in the
following areas Monday through Saturday:
      (1)   Main Street between Deschamps Street and Cedar Lane; and
      (2)   West Council between Main Street and Dennis Avenue.
Statutory reference:
   Local authority to regulate operation of bicycles, see S.C. Code § 56-5-710
(A)(8)
§ 32-156 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon a bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach it or them or himself or herself to any vehicle on a roadway.
§ 32-157 RIDING WITH “NO HANDS.”
   It shall be unlawful to operate a bicycle without having at least one hand
on the handlebar at all times or to fail to have control of the bicycle at all
times.
§ 32-158 LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every bicycle, when in use after dark, shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear, when directly
in front of the head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A red lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, AFTER DARK shall mean the time during
which the street lights of the city are, or should be, lighted.
§ 32-159 WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren or whistle.
§ 32-160 BRAKES.
   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a brake which
will enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level and clean
pavement.
§ 32-161 MOPEDS.
   (A)   Every person riding a moped upon a roadway shall be granted all the
rights and privileges and be subject to all of the duties applicable to drivers
of motor vehicles by the laws of this state, and to the traffic ordinances of
this city, except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their
nature can have no application.
   (B)   No moped shall be operated with excessive noise.
   (C)   No person shall operate a moped on the sidewalks of the city.
   (D)   No moped operator shall ride double.
   (E)   All moped operators shall obey traffic signs, signals and markings and
also the proper hand signals when turning.
   (F)   Every moped shall be equipped with a headlight and taillight which
shall shine while the motor is running and with brake lights and brakes in good
working condition.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, MOPED shall include bicycles with
helper motors.
§§ 32-162—32-180 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. RAILROAD
§ 32-181 CONSTRUCTION OF CROSSINGS.
   It shall be the duty of railroad companies and managers thereof owning or
controlling railroads within the corporate limits and operating trains therein,
to provide crossings that are easy of access and suitable for the use of
pedestrian and street traffic and controlled by elevated “Railroad Crossing”
signs.
§ 32-182 MAINTENANCE OF CROSSINGS.
   It shall be the duty of railroad companies to put in good repair and
maintain in good condition all streets or parts of streets through or over
which its line of tracks may run and to keep the same free from obstructions of
every kind.
§ 32-183 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except employees thereof, to climb or
to attempt to climb upon or to board or attempt to board any locomotive,
engine, car, coach or train of cars while the same is in motion or for any
person other than a regular passenger or employee of the railroad to ride on or
upon any locomotive engine, car, coach or train of cars while same is operated
within the corporate limits.
§§ 32-184—32-200 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. TRUCK AND BUS LIMITATIONS
§ 32-201 PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN TRUCKS AND BUSES ON DESIGNATED STREETS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All trucks and commercial buses in excess of two tons in weight,
having ten wheels or more, shall be prohibited from traveling on the below
named streets.
Academy Street
Calhoun Street (South)
Cedar Lane
Chappel Road
College Street
Cousar Street
Dixon Road
Durant Street
Fairview Street
Lee Street (North and South)
McIntosh Street
Roland Street
Wags Drive
 
   (B)   The above prohibitions shall not apply to:
      (1)   Trucks engaged in delivery of products and merchandise to
establishments located on such streets nor to trucks engaged in public service
along such streets;
      (2)   Buses engaged in the transportation of school children and buses
engaged in the transportation of persons to Sunday school and church and buses
engaged in the transportation of passengers within the urban area.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 8-19-2003)
CHAPTER 33: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 34: UTILITIES
Section
Article I. In General
   34-1—34-20   Reserved
Article II. Water and Sewerage Systems
   
34-21   Enabling act
   
34-22   Rules and regulations
   
34-23   Right of entry for purpose of making inspections
   
34-24   Responsibility for installation and maintenance
   
34-25   Excavation for pipe laying
   
34-26   Water service outside corporate limits
   
34-27   Water supply emergencies; penalties
   34-28—34-40   Reserved
Article III. Underground Utilities
   
34-41   “Person” defined
   
34-42   Location of lines to be approved
   
34-43   Hearing on petition for exceptions to standard locations
   
34-44   Penalty
   34-45—34-60   Reserved
Article IV. Prohibited Acts
   
34-61   Water and sewerage system
   
34-62   Pollution of water supply
   
34-63   Illegal connections
   
34-64   Tampering with water meters
   
34-65   Destruction, defacement and the like unlawful
   
34-66   Obstruction of sewer lines
   
34-67   Illegal reconnection when service is discontinued for nonpayment
   
34-68   Penalties
   34-69—34-80   Reserved
Article V. Rates and Charges
   
34-81   Water and sewer billings
   
34-82   Failure to pay fees or charges
   
34-83   Free water or sewer service prohibited
   
34-84   Employee water and sewer rates
   34-85—34-100   Reserved
Article VI. Water Charges
   
34-101   Water to be metered
   
34-102   Water rates
   
34-103   Meter deposits required; refunds
   
34-104   Tap fees required
   
34-105   Impact fees
   34-106—34-120   Reserved
Article VII. Sewers
Division 1. Generally
   
34-121   Definitions
   
34-122   Fair user sewer service charge required
   
34-123   Sewer rate structure
   
34-124   When sewer only is connected and charges are delinquent
   
34-125   Scavenger waste permit and fees
   
34-126   Permit and inspection fees
   
34-127   Infiltration/inflow
   34-128—34-140   Reserved
Division 2. Use of Public Sewers Required
   
34-141   Objectionable waste prohibited
   
34-142   Discharge to natural outlet prohibited
   
34-143   Privy, privy vault and the like prohibited
   
34-144   Suitable toilet facilities required
   
34-145   Accidental spill; city to be notified
   
34-146   Discharge to storm sewers prohibited
   34-147—34-160   Reserved
Division 3. Private Sewage Disposal
   
34-161   When public sewer not available
   
34-162   Written approval prior to construction
   
34-163   City to inspect private sewage system
   
34-164   Compliance with state recommendations
   
34-165   To operate in sanitary manner
   
34-166   Transfer to public sewer
   
34-167   Additional requirements
   34-168—34-180   Reserved
Division 4. Building Sewers and Connections
   
34-181   Unauthorized persons not to open, alter and the like
   
34-182   Classes of permits
   
34-183   Owner to pay all costs and expenses
   
34-184   Independent sewer required
   
34-185   Use of existing sewers
   
34-186   Construction to conform to regulations
   
34-187   Elevation, depth and the like of building sewer
   
34-188   Roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains and the like
   
34-189   Installation to be completed by properly licensed person
   
34-190   City to be notified; inspection
   
34-191   Excavation sites to have barricades
   
34-192   City to keep record
   
34-193   OSHA requirements to be met
   
34-194   Wastewater discharge permits
   
34-195   Permit not to be reassigned, transferred and so forth
   
34-196   Industrial discharge
   34-197—34-210   Reserved
Division 5. Use of the Public Sewers
   
34-211   Stormwater, surface water and the like
   
34-212   Water or waste discharge prohibited
   
34-213   Prohibited substances
   
34-214   Prohibited substances; action by the city
   
34-215   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
34-216   Flow equalizing facilities
   
34-217   Manhole to be installed
   
34-218   Measurements; sampling
   
34-219   Categorical pretreatment standards
   
34-220   Compliance
   
34-221   Information to be made available
   
34-222   Spill prevention and countermeasures
   
34-223   Notification of hazardous waste
   34-224—34-240   Reserved
Division 6. Removal, Transportation and Disposing of Scavenger Wastes
   
34-241   Scavenger wastes, written permit required
   
34-242   Approval by city; fees or charges
   
34-243   Permit; permit application
   
34-244   Equipment and vehicles used
   
34-245   Applicant information
   
34-246   Fees to be paid in advance
   34-247—34-260   Reserved
Division 7. Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
34-261   Authority to inspect, observe and the like
   
34-262   Company to be held harmless
   
34-263   Easements
   34-264—34-280   Reserved
Division 8. Sewer Use Charges
   
34-281   Prior to commencement of private sewage disposal system
   
34-282   Permit, inspection fee for building sewer
   
34-283   Fees for establishment producing industrial waste
   
34-284   Fee for discharge of scavenger waste
   
34-285   Fee for discharge of scavenger vehicle
   
34-286   Sewer tap fees
   
34-287   Water not supplied by the city
   
34-288   Sewer service charge for standard sewage
   
34-289   Surcharges
   34-290—34-310   Reserved
Division 9. Administrative Enforcement and Penalties
   
34-311   Suspension of wastewater treatment service
   
34-312   Notice of violation
   
34-313   Consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance and the like
   
34-314   User to appear before the city
   
34-315   Compliance order
   
34-316   Cease and desist order
   
34-317   Administrative fines
   
34-318   Violations
   
34-319   Penalty
   
34-320   List to be published
   
34-321   Annexation
   34-322—34-340   Reserved
Article VIII. Drought Response
Division 1. Generally
   
34-341   Declaration of policy and authority
   
34-342   Declaration of purpose and intent
   
34-343   Definition of terms
   
34-344   Status of article
   34-345—34-360   Reserved
Division 2. Drought Management Plan
   
34-361   Organization of drought management plan; administration; indicators;
cooperative agreements and the like
   34-362—34-380   Reserved
Division 3. Drought Phases
   
34-381   Moderate drought phase
   
34-382   Severe drought phase
   
34-383   Extreme drought phase
   
34-384   Rationing
   34-385—34-400   Reserved
Division 4. Administration
   
34-401   Enforcement of restrictions
   
34-402   Variances
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact relevant ordinances concerning sewerage system, see S.C.
Code § 5-31-900
   Authority to establish municipal sewerage system, see S.C. Code § 5-31-810
   City Councils with powers of Commissioners of Public Works, see S.C. Code §
5-1-230
   Construction and operation of municipal utilities, see S.C. Code § 5-31-610
   Development of subdivision water supply, sewage treatment and disposal
systems, see S.C. Code § 61-57
   Enumerated municipal powers regarding schedule of sewer service and
connection fees, see S.C. Code § 5-31-2030
   Individual sewage treatment and disposal systems, see S.C. Code § 61-56
   Municipal utilities generally, see S.C. Code § 5-31-610
   State primary drinking water regulations, see S.C. Code § 61-58
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§§ 34-1—34-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
§ 34-21 ENABLING ACT.
   The city shall furnish water to persons for reasonable compensation and
charge a reasonable charge for maintenance of a sewerage system. Such charges
shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council.
§ 34-22 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   For the protection of the health and the prevention of disease, all water
and waste water facilities serving the public by private ownership shall
conform to that certain document known as “rules and regulations governing the
development of subdivision water supply and waste disposal systems,” prescribed
by the State Department of Health and Environmental Control, with amendments
thereto.
§ 34-23 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF MAKING INSPECTIONS.
   Official authorities are hereby authorized to enter the premises of any user
of water or any sanitary sewer line, at all reasonable hours, to inspect or
examine water and sewer pipes, their connections and the use of water or sewer
lines on the premises.
§ 34-24 RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Property owners shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of
lines from the point where they are connected with a city sewer or water main
from the point of connection with the water meter and within the limits of the
particular lot for which his or her application has been approved.
§ 34-25 EXCAVATION FOR PIPE LAYING.
   (A)   All ditches or trenches opened for the purpose of laying pipes for
connection with water or sewer mains, whether on private premises or across
streets, sidewalks or ditches, shall be carefully and compactly closed and
filled after the pipes are laid.
   (B)   All paving disturbed in connection therewith shall be skillfully and
carefully repaired and restored.
§ 34-26 WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Applicants for water service outside the corporate limits, when
required to do so, shall extend water lines under streets or public ways to
connect to the water meter at their own expense.
   (B)   In such cases, the city reserves the right to locate water meters in
such position or location as deemed in its own best interest.
§ 34-27 WATER SUPPLY EMERGENCIES; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Upon a determination by the Council that the water supply may prove
inadequate for the comfort and convenience of the citizens, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to limit the use of said water supply by any person,
firm or corporation to such hours, and for such purposes as he or she may, in
his or her discretion, deem necessary. The limited use period shall become
effective 48 hours after conspicuous posting at the City Hall of a proclamation
stating the lawful purposes and hours of use of such water and shall remain in
effect for the duration of said emergency period.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate said proclamation
shall be subject to a fine, as determined from time to time by ordinance or
imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten days; provided, however, that no
person shall be subject to said penalty until such offender shall have been
notified of said proclamation and afforded the opportunity to refrain from any
further violation. Failure on the part of any such offender to comply after
notice shall subject each offender to the penalty herein provided.
§§ 34-28—34-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
§ 34-41 “PERSON” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the word PERSON shall include an individual
or corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any other
entity acting as a unit.
§ 34-42 LOCATION OF LINES TO BE APPROVED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate any underground gas, electric,
phone, Cablevision or any other type lines, within less than two feet from any
utility pole or line without a permit granted as hereinafter provided.
§ 34-43 HEARING ON PETITION FOR EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARD LOCATIONS.
   If any person shall desire or deem it necessary to locate an underground
line within less than two feet of any utility pole or line, such person shall
submit a petition with the City Council requesting a permit to do so. The
Council, after written notice of not less than ten days to the person
submitting such petition and to the owner or the person in control or charge of
the utility pole or line, shall grant a hearing on said petition, at which time
the parties in interest shall be heard. The decision of the Council shall be
final and binding upon all parties in interest.
§ 34-44 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of the article shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. Each day a violation of the article exists, it shall be
considered a separate offense.
§§ 34-45—34-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 34-61 WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   The enumerated acts in this article shall be unlawful and a violation by any
person or persons who engage in such acts without appropriate permission or
authority or without the appropriate supervision as herein specified. They
shall not be considered all-inclusive.
§ 34-62 POLLUTION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful to defile or pollute the water in any pipe, tank or
reservoir connected with the public water system or to make connection
therewith or maintain any connection whereby water from any other source may be
pumped or allowed to flow into the public distribution system which may result
in a cross-connection. The city shall use § R.61-58.7F of the State Primary
Drinking Water Regulations as the policy for cross-connection prevention. Low-
hazard residential lawn sprinkler systems may use a residential dual check. All
residential dual checks used on low hazard irrigation systems must be changed
out at least every five years. The city reserves the right to charge for the
replacement cost and labor of the residential dual checks used in low hazard
irrigation. Records shall be kept by the Water Department for the purpose of
scheduling replacement of residential dual checks for low hazard residential
irrigation systems in additional to all other required backflow prevention
device records.
(Ord. 05-05, passed 1-10-2006)
§ 34-63 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to connect with, use or tap any public water or
sewer main without specific authorization of the Council, in writing first
obtained, other than normal connections for which connection fees shall have
been paid, but not including private wells.
   (B)   No person shall place any pipe or similar material in such a manner as
to furnish public water or sewer service to others, except as otherwise
provided herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put any substance, either solid
or liquid, into any public sewer main or line, at manholes or in any other way,
than through a connection as may be made for the purpose and provided by
ordinance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any substance which
may be harmful or liable to damage the public sewerage system or to obstruct
the flow of sewage in said system.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, after notice to cease
and desist, to violate the provisions of this article.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to connect or permit to remain connected, any
open gutter or rain water conductor or cesspool with any sanitary sewer line.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to have a water system, other than the
city water system, either publicly owned or privately owned connected to any
structure within the incorporated area of the city for domestic use or potable
consumption. Note: Private wells may still be used for irrigation purposes but
not connected to the potable water source. In addition, private wells are
subject to the rules and regulations of the SCDHEC.
(Ord. 09-03, passed 10-6-2009)
§ 34-64 TAMPERING WITH WATER METERS.
   It shall be unlawful to tamper with or change any water meter.
§ 34-65 DESTRUCTION, DEFACEMENT AND THE LIKE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully destroy, break,
injure, climb upon or deface or in any other manner interfere with any public
water mains, water tanks, sewers, fire hydrants, meter boxes, stop cocks, pumps
or other mixtures of the public waterworks system or throw into such system any
bricks, earth, stone, filth or other substances. It shall also be unlawful for
any person or persons to willfully destroy, break, injure, deface or in any
other manner interfere with any house, fence, wells, street mains, sluice pipes
or gate valves, or to place advertisements or placards on any property
belonging to the waterworks or sewerage system.
§ 34-66 OBSTRUCTION OF SEWER LINES.
   It shall be unlawful to place in any water closet, or allow to enter any
soil pipe, any paper other than what is commonly known as toilet paper, or
material or substance likely to block, obstruct the flow or damage the pipeline
or sewerage system or to dispose of any flammable, noxious or chemically active
material harmful to life or property into the sewerage system.
§ 34-67 ILLEGAL RECONNECTION WHEN SERVICE IS DISCONTINUED FOR NONPAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to reconnect water or sewer service or to continue to
use such service when it has been discontinued for nonpayment of a bill for
service, until such bill has been paid in full, including a reconnection fee as
provided in §
34-81(B).
§ 34-68 PENALTIES.
   The violation of any provision of this article, unless otherwise provided,
shall be deemed a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
§§ 34-69—34-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. RATES AND CHARGES
§ 34-81 WATER AND SEWER BILLINGS.
   (A)   All meters shall be read once a month. Each monthly bill shall become
due and payable in its entirety on or before the fifteenth day of the month.
Any customer failing to pay his or her or her water bill on or before the
fifteenth day of the month shall be charged a penalty of 10% until the
twentieth day of the month, which shall be collected along with the waterworks
and sewer system bill.
   (B)   If any person or firm fails to pay his, her or their bill before the
twentieth day of each month, all water service to such user shall be
discontinued and shall remain discontinued until such user shall have paid his
or her past due bill and a reconnection fee in an amount determined from time
to time by ordinance, the water meter shall be removed and a reconnection fee
in an amount determined from time to time by ordinance will be charged if past
due bill is not paid within four days of service discontinuation.
   (C)   Each bill shall include a monthly sewer service charge, as hereinafter
provided, which shall be added to the water bill and collected as a part
thereof.
§ 34-82 FAILURE TO PAY FEES OR CHARGES.
   The right is reserved hereby to discontinue service to any premises for
failure to pay water and/or sewer charges when due and payable as set out in
this article. Service shall be reinstated as hereinafter provided.
§ 34-83 FREE WATER OR SEWER SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to furnish free water or sewer service to any person,
firm or corporation.
§ 34-84 EMPLOYEE WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   The employee residential rate for both inside and outside shall
reflect the same rates as normal inside and outside residential rates with the
exception of the minimum on the employee rates to be 10,000 gallons instead of
3,750 gallons. In addition to active employees, county fire and emergency
personnel, county sworn law enforcement officers and State Highway Patrol
officers may be included in the employee rate. Anyone who is on this rate and
not a city employee must give documentation of proof of employment to the
Finance Director on an annual basis in the month of July. If not, they will be
removed from the employee rate.
   (B)   Elected officials are excluded from receiving the water and sewer
employee rate. In addition, the city does not accept responsibility or
liability for notification or the lack thereof to potential qualified personnel
that may qualify for this special rate.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 11-1-2011; Ord. 11-05A, passed 1-3-2012)
§§ 34-85—34-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. WATER CHARGES
§ 34-101 WATER TO BE METERED.
   All water service shall be metered and computed for billing purposes on the
amount of water used, both inside and outside the corporate limits.
§ 34-102 WATER RATES.
   Monthly water rates, inside and outside the corporate limits, are as
established from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 10-01A, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 11-02A, passed 6-28-2011; Ord. 12-03A,
passed 6-26-2012; Ord. 13-06A, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2014-03A, passed 6-17-
2014; Ord. 2015-01A, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 34-103 METER DEPOSITS REQUIRED; REFUNDS.
   (A)   Each new customer obtaining a water connection shall make a deposit in
an amount as determined from time to time by ordinance to secure the payment of
bills to be rendered.
   (B)   When permanent service is discontinued, the deposit shall be returned
to the depositor, without interest, after first deducting all outstanding bills
for water and sewer service.
§ 34-104 TAP FEES REQUIRED.
   For each new water connection, the person or firm applying for water service
shall pay a tap-in or cut-in fee as is determined from time to time by
ordinance.
§ 34-105 IMPACT FEES.
   In addition to the deposit and water and sewer tap fees required herein, for
each new water connection to the system, a person, corporation or other legal
entity applying for water service shall pay an impact fee based upon the
Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) guidelines for unit
contributory loadings to wastewater treatment facilities. Charges, rates,
criteria and fees shall be as otherwise determined from time to time by
ordinance.
§§ 34-106—34-120 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. SEWERS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 34-121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words shall be construed as having the meaning defined in “Glossary Water and
Sewage Control Engineering,” published by the Water Pollution Control
Federation, Washington, D.C., or by their general usage, if undefined. A word
importing masculine gender only, shall extend and be applied to females and
firms, partnerships and corporations as well as males.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures,
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter and as further defined in
“Standard Methods.”
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of lowest horizontal piping of a drain system which
receives the discharge from soil waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet
outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Bishopville, South Carolina.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation of
cooking and dispensing of food from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid waste from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation of cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than three-eighths inch in dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance
by the municipality. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater
to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer, which carries sewage to which stormwater, surface
water and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of the devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage or industrial wastewaters.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SURCHARGE. A charge for sewer service and treatment service for wastes
having characteristics different from sanitary wastes and for which additional
charges must be assessed in order to compensate for additional expenses
incurred.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any person discharging into the public sewer
which:
      (1)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R. §
403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, as promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the city’s sewage
treatment plant;
      (3)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater, excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater; or
      (4)   Has, in the opinion of the city, a reasonable potential to
adversely affect the operation of the city’s sewage treatment plant or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6)).
   SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION. A violation of discharge limitations that meet one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations in which 66% or more of all of the measurements
taken during a six-month period exceed the limitation for the same parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violation in which 33% or more of
all of the measurements taken during a six month period, except pH, exceed
limitation by a magnitude of the TRC (TRC equals 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils
and grease; TRC equals 1.2 for all other parameters);
      (3)   Any violation of a discharge limitation which the city believes has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the exercise
of the city’s emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Any violation by 90 days or more after the scheduled date of any
compliance schedule milestone contained in the wastewater discharge permit;
      (6)   Failure to provide the required pretreatment program reports within
30 days of the due date;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the city
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the
pretreatment program.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration occurring during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater,” published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries stormwater and surface
waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
   STREET. Streets, avenues, drives, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and
viaducts and all other public highways in the sanitary area.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on a surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids which are removable by laboratory
filtering and is further defined in “Standard Methods.”
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended matter, settleable matter and dissolved
matter, both volatile and nonvolatile and as further defined in “Standard
Methods.”
   TREATMENT WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage or industrial wastewaters.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-122 FAIR USER SEWER SERVICE CHARGE REQUIRED.
   A monthly sewer service charge shall be paid with the water bill by all
users of the sanitary sewerage system of the city.
§ 34-123 SEWER RATE STRUCTURE.
   Monthly sewer rates, inside and outside the corporate limits, are as
established from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 10-01A, passed 6-23-2010; Ord. 11-02A, passed 6-28-2011; Ord. 12-03A,
passed 6-26-2012; Ord. 13-06A, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2014-03A, passed 6-17-
2014; Ord. 2015-01A, passed 6-23-2015)
§ 34-124 WHEN SEWER ONLY IS CONNECTED AND CHARGES ARE DELINQUENT.
   When no water is supplied by the City Water Department and a sewer
connection is made and the service charge becomes delinquent, necessitating a
discontinuance of service therefor, the fee to reconnect the service shall be
the same as that charged for water customers.
§ 34-125 SCAVENGER WASTE PERMIT AND FEES.
   (A)   An annual permit shall be obtained by every person, firm or
corporation operating a scavenger vehicle. An annual fee shall be paid for each
vehicle disposing of waste at the facilities. A base fee shall be charged to
cover testing and labor each time a waste is dumped. In addition, a fee shall
be paid for each 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   Any addition of chemicals to bring the pH up to an acceptable level
will be extra. All fees shall be as determined from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 01-10, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 34-126 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   The tap-in or cut-in fees and sewer permit/inspection fees, both inside and
outside the corporate limits, for each new sewer connection to the city
waterworks and sewer system, shall be as determined from time to time by
ordinance.
§ 34-127 INFILTRATION/INFLOW.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXCESSIVE INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The quantities of infiltration/inflow
which can be economically eliminated from a sewerage system by rehabilitation,
as determined by a cost effectiveness analysis that compares the costs for
correcting the infiltration/inflow conditions with the total costs for
transportation and treatment of the infiltration/inflow, subject to EPA
provisions.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewerage system, including sewer
service connections, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited
to, defective pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not
include and is distinguished from inflow.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
      INFLOW. The water discharged into the sewerage system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, sewers and
combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface run-off, street wash waters
or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished from infiltration.
   (B)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer shall maintain
said sewer in such a manner as to prevent excessive amounts of infiltration/
inflow from entering the public sewerage system. The city shall notify the
owner of any building whose sewer is not properly maintained. The owner shall
have the necessary repairs made at his or her own expense, and the city shall
determine whether a person, properly licensed, will be required to make the
repairs. Before any underground portions are covered, the owner shall notify
the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection.
§§ 34-128—34-140 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 34-141 OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-142 DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this article.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-143 PRIVY, PRIVY VAULT AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for disposal of sewage, where
public sewers are available.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-144 SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there shall be located a public
sanitary sewer of the city is hereby required at his or her expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with
the proper public sewer in accordance with provisions of this division within
60 days after written notice from the city to the property owner requiring such
property owner to make connection thereto; provided, that said public sewer
shall be within 200 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-145 ACCIDENTAL SPILL; CITY TO BE NOTIFIED.
   Persons responsible for an accidental spill or discharge of any substance
into the treatment works which may adversely affect operation of the treatment
works shall immediately notify the city of such a discharge. Failure to comply
with this requirement shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-146 DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   The discharge of wastewaters to storm sewers is, without exception,
prohibited.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§§ 34-147—34-160 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 34-161 WHEN PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under provisions of §
34-144, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-162 WRITTEN APPROVAL PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain written approval by the SCDHEC and the
city; the application for such permit shall be made in writing by the applicant
and shall include any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed
necessary by the city.
   (B)   A permit and inspection fee as described in §
34-281 shall be paid to the city at the time application for permit is filed.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-163 CITY TO INSPECT PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage system shall not become effective until
the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city. The city shall
be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for
final inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
   (B)   The inspection shall be made within a reasonable time after the
receipt of notice by the city.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-164 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage system shall
comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Health and
Environmental Control. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-165 TO OPERATE IN SANITARY MANNER.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-166 TRANSFER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
34-164, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this division, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge and filled with clean
bank-run gravel or dirt within 60 days of notification to do so by the city.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-167 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this division shall be construed to nullify any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the appropriate State or County
Health Officer.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§§ 34-168—34-180 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 34-181 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS NOT TO OPEN, ALTER AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person not authorized by the city shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-182 CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   Residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
in writing to the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the city. A permit and inspection fee for a residential, commercial building
sewer permit or an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed, as provided in §
34-282.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-183 OWNER TO PAY ALL COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer to the property line shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-184 INDEPENDENT SEWER REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Where one building stands to the rear of another on a single lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the city may grant
permission for the building sewer from the front building to be extended to the
rear building sewer, upon a showing by the applicant that it is not feasible
that the two buildings so connected will ultimately be on separate lots.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-185 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all of the
requirements of this division.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-186 CONSTRUCTION TO CONFORM TO REGULATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavation, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling and trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
appropriate specifications of the ASTM or WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9, all
installation to be subject to the expressed written approval of the city and in
no case shall the size of pipe installed be less than four inches in nominal
diameter.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-187 ELEVATION, DEPTH AND THE LIKE OF BUILDING SEWER.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement or first floor. No building sewer shall be made
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from live loads
(automobile and the like) which may be superimposed. The building sewer shall
be made at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. The
building sewer shall be constructed to such point as directed by the city.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-188 ROOF DOWNSPOUTS, EXTERIOR FOUNDATION DRAINS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall maintain or make a connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-189 INSTALLATION TO BE COMPLETED BY PROPERLY LICENSED PERSON.
   The installation and connection of the building sewer to the property line
should be completed by a person properly licensed by the city to perform such
services.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-190 CITY TO BE NOTIFIED; INSPECTION.
   Before any underground portions thereof are covered, the applicant for the
building sewer permit shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection thereof shall
be made to the public sewer by a licensed plumber and only after inspection.
The inspection thereof shall be made within two working days of the receipt of
notice by the city.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-191 EXCAVATION SITES TO HAVE BARRICADES.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-192 CITY TO KEEP RECORD.
   The city shall keep a permanent and accurate record of the location, depth
and direction of all new sewer connections, including such landmarks as may be
necessary to make an adequate description.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-193 OSHA REQUIREMENTS TO BE MET.
   All pertinent OSHA requirements must be met during the construction of any
portion of the treatment works.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-194 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this division and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the city and affording city access
thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the city or any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges; and
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this article.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-195 PERMIT NOT TO BE REASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED AND SO FORTH.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned, transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or user shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-196 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE.
   The city may develop, implement and enforce industrial discharge limitations
that are more stringent than federal or state limits in order to ensure
compliance with the POTW’s NPDES permit. In addition, revisions or adjustments
to specific discharge limitations may be made at any time to ensure NPDES
compliance, protect the receiving waters, to correct operational/maintenance
problems in the collection system and wastewater treatment plant and to protect
public health.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§§ 34-197—34-210 RESERVED.
DIVISION 5. USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 34-211 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any public sewer.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-212 WATER OR WASTE DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
waters or wastes to any public sewer (refer to §§
34-213 and
34-219):
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. Any
gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid,
solid or gas;
   (B)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes
to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process to constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, to create a public nuisance or to create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment works;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 12.0 or
having heavy concentrations of salts or having any other corrosive property
capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of
the sewage plant;
   (D)   Solids or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction in the flow of sewage or other interference to the proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
hair and fleshing or entrails, either whole or ground by garbage grinders; or
   (E)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentrated which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a
slug load have a flow rate or contain concentration or qualities of pollutants
that exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the
average 24-hour concentration, quantities or flow during normal operation.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-213 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the city, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have adverse effect on the receiving stream or
can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor in amounts which will inhibit biological
activity at the treatment plant resulting in interference or causing damage,
but in no case in such quantities that the temperature exceeds 150°F at the
city sewage system or 104°F at the treatment plant unless SCDHEC, upon request
of the city, approves alternate temperature limits;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils whether
emulsified or not in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
h.p. or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   No person shall discharge substances in excess of the amounts
established in their discharge permit;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentration exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage to
meet requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction of such discharge of the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH outside the range of 6.0 to 9.0
without special permission from the city;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, earth, lime slurries and line residues or of dissolved solids,
such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions. A spectrophotometer set at a wavelength of 254
millimeter measures the transmittance of UV light through a one-centimeter
sample as a percentage relative to deionized water set at 100%. No material,
solution or color shall be added to the wastewater stream which will cause UV
transmittance to fall below 65%;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
cannot meet the requirements of other state or federal agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through, but
in no case amounts greater than 100 mg/l;
      (12)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems; and
      (13)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the city.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 6-19-2001; Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-214 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; ACTION BY THE CITY.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
34-213, which in the judgment of the city may have a deleterious effect upon
the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving water, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to reduce the waste to an acceptable condition
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403 prior to discharge to the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
34-289.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization waste flows, the
design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city subject to the requirements of all applicable
codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-215 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. All interceptors shall be
supplied and properly maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-216 FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment for flow equalizing facilities is provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-217 MANHOLE TO BE INSTALLED.
   It shall be required by the city that the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes install a suitable control manhole.
When deemed necessary, the city may require additional waste metering devices
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate preservation,
sampling and measurement of the waste. Such manhole shall be readily accessible
for representatives of the city, safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-218 MEASUREMENTS; SAMPLING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this division shall be determined in
accordance with the latest amendments to 40 C.F.R. part 136 “Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for the Clean Water Act,” as promulgated by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for in §
34-217, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. Sampling shall
be carried out by customarily accepted methods so as to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazard of
life, limb and property. Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis
shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures approved by SCDHEC.
   (B)   In order for the city to properly evaluate the effect of the waste on
the system, an industry may be required to submit, along with the plans and the
like required in §
34-162, an industrial waste questionnaire summary describing maximum, minimum
and average wastewater characteristics.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-219 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal or state categorical pretreatment
standards for a particular industrial subcategory, that standard, if more
stringent than limitations imposed under this division for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
division. The city shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 or other requirements.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-220 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance data reporting requirements. Within 90 days following the
date for final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the
case of a new source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater
into the city sewer, any user subject to pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit to the city a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process
which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements and the average
and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user facility which are
limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state
whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user and certified to by a qualified
professional.
   (B)   Compliance schedule development. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M
will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, a schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment will be developed by the city.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for any applicable pretreatment standard. The following
conditions shall apply to this schedule.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
      (2)   No increment referred to in subsection (B)(1) above shall exceed
nine months.
      (3)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the
steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the city.
   (C)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard after the compliance
date of such pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the approving
authority during the months of March, June, September and December, unless
required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the city, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include
a record of all daily flows which, during the reporting period, exceeded the
average daily flow reported in this chapter. At the discretion of the approving
authority and in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates,
holidays, budget cycles and the like, the approving authority may agree to
alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   The approving authority shall impose mass limitations on users
which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements, or in other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are
appropriate. In such cases, the report required by subsection (C)(1) above
shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in
the effluent to the user. These reports shall contain the results of sampling
and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration or production and mass where requested by the city, of pollutants
contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards,
The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment
standard. All analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the approving authority pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and
contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test
procedures approved by the approving authority. Sampling shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques approved by the city.
   (D)   Routine self-monitoring. The wastewater of each industrial user is
subject to routine self-monitoring and reporting requirements.
      (1)   All sampling and analysis shall be in conformance with §
34-218 of this chapter.
      (2)   If any industrial user samples more frequently than required by the
city, the results of such sampling shall also be reported to the city.
      (3)   If sampling indicates a violation of this division or of any
conditions of the wastewater discharge permit, the user must notify the city
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user shall also repeat
the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the analysis to the city
within 30 days.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-221 INFORMATION TO BE MADE AVAILABLE.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the city that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user. When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this division, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, the state
disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however,
that such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any
state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Any data concerning the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the effluent shall not be considered confidential.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-222 SPILL PREVENTION AND COUNTERMEASURES.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this article. In
addition, each significant industrial user (SIU) shall develop a plan to
control spills and slug discharges. No SIU shall be permitted to introduce
pollutants into the system until such a plan has been approved by the city.
Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve
the industrial user form the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this division. The plan shall contain, at
a minimum, the following elements:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharge;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug discharges,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §
34-212, with procedures for follow-up written notification within five days;
and
      (4)   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental
spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site
run-off, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment,
measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents) and/or
measures and equipment for emergency response.
   (B)   If identified in the plan or deemed necessary by the city, facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner’s cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities
and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be approved by the
city before construction of the facility.
   (C)   In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of
the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The
notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration
and volume and corrective action. Within five days following an accidental
discharge, the user shall submit to the city a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this article or other
applicable law.
   (D)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising all employees whom to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-223 NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Each industrial user shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director and the state hazardous waste authorities in
writing of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part 261. Such
notification must include the name of the hazardous waste, as set forth in 40
C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and the type of discharge
(continuous, batch or other). If the industrial user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall
also contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the industrial user: an identification of the
hazardous constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the waste stream expected to be
discharged during that calendar-month; and an estimation of the mass of
constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged in the following 12
months. All notifications must take place within 180 days of the effective date
of this rule. Industrial users who commence discharging after the effective
date of this rule shall provide the notification no later than 180 days after
the discharge of the listed or characteristic hazardous waste. Any notification
under this paragraph need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharged. However, notifications of changed discharges must be submitted
under §
34-194(B)(9). The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of §
34-220(d).
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of this section during a
calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous
wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R.
§§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of non-acute
hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or any quantity of acute hazardous wastes
as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time
notification. Subsequent months during which the industrial user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA, being 42
U.S.C. § 6921 identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or
listing any additional substance as hazardous waste, the industrial user must
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and the
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§§ 34-224—34-240 RESERVED.
DIVISION 6. REMOVAL, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSING OF SCAVENGER WASTES
§ 34-241 SCAVENGER WASTES, WRITTEN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Persons desiring to discharge scavenger wastes into the sewage treatment
works shall be required to obtain a written permit from the city. For the
purpose of this division, SCAVENGER WASTES shall mean putrid or offensive
matter, the contents of all privies, septic tanks and cesspools. All other
materials and substances, chemicals or chemical compounds and/or industrial
wastes will not be permitted to be discharged into the public sewerage system
except as heretofore provided. Said permit shall be purchased from the city as
provided in §
34-284 and shall be valid for one year, except as hereinafter provided. The
discharge of these wastes shall be made only at a location in the sewage
treatment works as shall be designated on said permit by the city.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-242 APPROVAL BY CITY; FEES OR CHARGES.
   Scavenger wastes will be admitted into the sewerage system only by approval
of the city and subject to payment of fees or charges fixed by the city. Such a
fee or charge and shall be based upon the full capacity of each scavenger
vehicle for each discharge.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-243 PERMIT; PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The applicant shall be the owner of the vehicle for which a permit is
applied. Any false, untruthful or misleading statements in any application for
a permit or in any paper submitted in support of said application will
invalidate the permit. Such a permit may be suspended or revoked at any time by
the city for willful, continued or persistent violations of these rules and
regulations or upon such other grounds as the city may deem proper.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-244 EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES USED.
   All equipment (trucks, tanks, pumps and hose) used for the collection and/or
transportation of scavenger wastes shall be modern equipment in good repair.
When more than one vehicle is used by an applicant, each vehicle shall bear an
identifying number. The city shall refuse a permit to any person utilizing
equipment other than above.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-245 APPLICANT INFORMATION.
   All applicants for a permit shall furnish the following information with
each application:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant;
   (B)   Volume of scavenger waste for each numbered vehicle; and
   (C)   Number of scavenger vehicles in collection service.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-246 FEES TO BE PAID IN ADVANCE.
   All fees provided by this division and as defined in §§
34-284 and 34-285 shall be paid to the city in advance.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§§ 34-247—34-260 RESERVED.
DIVISION 7. POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 34-261 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT, OBSERVE AND THE LIKE.
   The city or duly authorized representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this article. The city or its representatives
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-262 COMPANY TO BE HELD HARMLESS.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
34-261, the city or duly authorized representatives of the city shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city’s
representative. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by the city’s representative and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging, sampling operations, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
34-217.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-263 EASEMENTS.
   The city or duly authorized representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the treatment works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§§ 34-264—34-280 RESERVED.
DIVISION 8. SEWER USE CHARGES
§ 34-281 PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   The permit and inspection fee required prior to the commencement of
construction of a private sewage disposal system other than a septic tank,
privy, privy vault or cesspool for a single-family dwelling as required under §
34-162 shall be as directed by ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-282 PERMIT, INSPECTION FEE FOR BUILDING SEWER.
   The permit and inspection fee required for a building sewer to serve a
residence, apartment unit or commercial establishment prescribed under §
34-182 shall be as directed by ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-283 FEES FOR ESTABLISHMENT PRODUCING INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   The permit and inspection fee required for an establishment producing
industrial waste as prescribed in §
34-182 shall be as directed by ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-284 FEE FOR DISCHARGE OF SCAVENGER WASTE.
   Persons desiring to discharge scavenger waste into the treatment works shall
be required to obtain a permit from the city. This permit shall be valid for
one year. The annual permit fee shall be as directed by ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-285 FEE FOR DISCHARGE OF SCAVENGER VEHICLE.
   In addition to the annual permit required in §
34-284, a fixed fee as directed by ordinance of Council shall be paid to the
city for each discharge of a scavenger vehicle into the city’s treatment works.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-286 SEWER TAP FEES.
   (A)   Persons desiring to connect a building sewer to the city’s treatment
works shall pay to the city a tap fee as directed by ordinance of Council for
each residence, commercial establishment or apartment unit. The fee for taps
onto the city’s treatment works for industrial wastes shall be the actual cost
to the city but shall not be less than the building sewer tap fees.
   (B)   For sewer taps outside the city, the fee for taps onto the city’s
system shall be as directed by ordinance of Council.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-287 WATER NOT SUPPLIED BY THE CITY.
   In all cases where residential, commercial or industrial premises or
facilities are connected to the city’s sewage disposal system and are not
supplied water by the city, the city shall require that the water used be
measured by a water meter acceptable to the city and that sewer service charged
be assessed against that quantity and quality of sewage flow in exactly the
same manner as if the water were being supplied by the city. The cost of the
installation and maintenance of the water meter will be borne by the customer
exclusively.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-288 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE FOR STANDARD SEWAGE.
   (A)   The sewer service charge for standard sewage waste, as defined in §
34-289, shall be as directed by ordinance of Council.
   (B)   The sewer service charge shall be paid on a monthly basis. A ceiling
shall apply for sewer service charges on single unit residential customers
based on a maximum of 12,000 gallons of water usage for the month.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-289 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   A schedule of surcharges has been established which takes into
consideration the total costs for the treatment of wastes. In this schedule, a
BOD5 concentration of 0 to 335 ppm, a total suspended solids concentration of 0
to 335 ppm and a pH in the range of six to nine units is considered to be a
standard sewage waste. Any wastewaters having a concentration in excess of the
stated limits is subject to a surcharge in accordance with a schedule set forth
by ordinance of Council. These surcharges are based on the equitable recovery
of wastewater treatment costs as required for those municipalities receiving
federal assistance for the construction of wastewater treatment facilities and
is in compliance with the regulations of 40 C.F.R. part 35. The issuance of
this surcharge schedule does not in itself permit, nor does it imply, that any
such high strength wastewater will be received by the city for treatment. In
each instance, the actual acceptance of the waste for treatment is subject to
review and evaluation by the city. In some instances pretreatment may be
required before acceptance of the wastewater for final treatment by the city.
   (B)   Capital cost surcharges will be charged to industrial users, which are
allowed limits higher than standard sewage waste. These surcharges will be
based on current replacement costs of percentage of capacity allocated. These
calculations are subject to change and may be obtained from the Utility
Department.
   (C)   O&M surcharge rates will be charged monthly based on actual discharge
concentration excess above standard limits. The rates are based on current
costs and are subject to be reviewed and amended when deemed necessary.
   (D)   Penalty surcharge rates may be applied if discharge concentration is
in excess of permit limits and gross negligence by the industry or treatment
interferences has occurred at the WWTP. These rates are as follows:
      (1)   $0.50/pound BOD over permit limits;
      (2)   $0.40/pound TSS over permit limits; and
      (3)   $0.50/pound O&G over permit limits.
   (E)   Payment of penalty surcharges does not absolve an industrial user from
permit violations. A violation occurs any time a permit limit is exceeded.
(Ord. 11, passed 12-4-1990; Ord. 60, passed 3-17-1998; Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-
2002)
§§ 34-290—34-310 RESERVED.
DIVISION 9. ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 34-311 SUSPENSION OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons or to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES permit.
   (B)   (1)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals.
      (2)   The city shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or
the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the
noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of
the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-312 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   When authorized representatives of the city find that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, authorized personnel of the city may serve upon that user a
written notice of violation.
   (B)   Within five days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the city.
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Pretreatment
Coordinator or any other authorized representative of the city to take action,
including emergency actions or any other enforcement action without first
issuing a notice of violation. Authorized representatives of the city are
indicated in the enforcement response guide section of the pretreatment
program.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-313 CONSENT ORDERS, ASSURANCES OF VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE AND THE LIKE.
   Authorized personnel may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance with a time period specified
by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
34-315 and
34-316 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-314 USER TO APPEAR BEFORE THE CITY.
   (A)   The city may order a user which has violated or continues to violate
any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before
the city and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken.
   (B)   Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for
the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a
request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 15 days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-315 COMPLIANCE ORDER.
   (A)   When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may issue
an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come
into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into
compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are
installed and properly operated.
   (B)   Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the
noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices
designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
user of any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-316 CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
   (A)   When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the
user’s past violations are likely to recur, the city may issue an order to the
user directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the
user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-317 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may fine
such user. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In
the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10%, of the unpaid balance and additional
penalties shall be added for each month thereafter, until paid. A lien against
the user’s property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the city to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within 15 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the
city may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user’s appeal is
successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be
returned to the user. The city may add the costs of preparing administrative
enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   (1)   The city shall have the authority to seek or assess minimum
penalties in at least the amount of $1,000 for each offense by any user who is
found to have violated an order of the City Council or who willfully or
negligently failed to comply with any provision of this article and the orders,
rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder. Each day on which a violation
shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover
reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees and other
expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the user found to
have violated this article or the rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-318 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any user who violates the following conditions, or applicable state
and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her permit revoked in
accordance with the procedures of Division 5 of this article:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit;
      (5)   Violations of the standards in Division 5 of this article;
      (6)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (7)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (8)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (9)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (10)   Failure to pay fines;
      (11)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (12)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (13)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (14)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (15)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this article.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
34-314 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the city shall not be a bar to, or prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-319 PENALTY.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document files
required to be maintained pursuant to this article, or wastewater contribution
permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this article, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than
six months or by both.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-320 LIST TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The city shall annually publish in the largest daily newspaper of local
distribution a list of the industrial discharger(s) which are in significant
noncompliance with any of the pretreatment requirements or standards during the
12 previous months. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement
actions taken against the industrial discharger(s) during the same 12 months.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
§ 34-321 ANNEXATION.
   As a condition precedent to the connection of sewer lines to the property of
any person, firm, corporation or organization, the following requirements shall
be agreed to by the applicant for such service prior to the installation
thereof.
   (A)   At any time, subsequent to the connection of the sewer lines, should
any part of the property to which the utility has been connected become
contiguous to the corporate limits of the city, the owners of said property
shall cause said property to be annexed as a part of the city.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service until the property
has been annexed.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall prepare a “sewer service contract” which
shall be in similar form as the attachment hereto, to effect the provisions of
this article.
§§ 34-322—34-340 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. DROUGHT RESPONSE
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 34-341 DECLARATION OF POLICY AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The objective of this drought response article is to establish
authority, policy and procedure by which the city will take the proper actions
to manage water demand during a drought-related shortage. This article
satisfies the requirements of the Drought Response Act of 2000 and has the goal
of achieving the greatest public benefit from limited supplies of water needed
for domestic water use, sanitation and fire protection and of allocating water
for other purposes in an equitable manner.
   (B)   This article outlines the actions to be taken for the conservation of
water supplied by the city. These actions are directed both towards an overall
reduction in water usage and the optimization of supply.
   (C)   To satisfy these goals, the city hereby adopts the following
regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of water. This
article is hereby declared necessary for the protection of public health,
safety and welfare and shall take effect upon its adoption by the city.
   (D)   (1)   If it becomes necessary to conserve water in its service area
due to drought, the city is authorized to issue a proclamation that existing
conditions prevent fulfillment of the usual water use demands.
      (2)   The proclamation is an attempt to prevent depleting the water
supply to the extent that water use for human consumption, sanitation, fire
protection and other essential needs becomes endangered.
   (E)   Immediately upon issuance of such a proclamation, regulations and
restrictions set forth under this article shall become effective and remain in
effect until the water supply shortage has ended and the proclamation
rescinded.
   (F)   Water uses that are regulated or prohibited under this article are
considered to be non-essential, and continuation of such uses during times of
water supply shortages is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the
offender(s) to penalties.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for local drought response ordinances, see S.C. Code § 49-23-90
§ 34-342 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The city understands the fundamental need to make efficient use of the
limited and valuable water resource under its stewardship in order to protect
the public’s health and safety and environmental integrity. The purpose of this
article is to establish a plan and procedures for managing water demand and
evaluating supply options before and during a drought-related water shortage.
The intent is to satisfy the requirements of the Drought Response Act of 2000
(S.C. Code §§ 49-23-10 et seq., as amended) with the goal of achieving the
greatest public benefit from domestic water use, sanitation and fire protection
and to provide water for other purposes in an equitable manner.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 34-343 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USE. Water use integral to the production of goods
and/or services by any establishment having profit as its primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of the
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using finished water owned or
supplied by the city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household purposes,
such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or for cleaning a
residence, business, industry or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES. There are four drought alert phases to be determined
by the Drought Response Committee for the state. The four phases are:
      (1)   Incipient drought;
      (2)   Moderate drought;
      (3)   Severe drought; and
      (4)   Extreme drought.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE COMMITTEE. A committee composed of state and local
representatives created for the purpose of coordinating responses to water
supply shortages within drought management areas and making recommendations for
action to the State Department of Natural Resources and/or the Governor. The
COMMITTEE is composed of state agency representatives from the State Emergency
Management Division of the Office of the Adjutant General, State Department of
Health and Environmental Control, State Department of Agriculture, State
Forestry Commission and State Department of Natural Resources, as well as local
committees representing counties, municipalities, public service districts,
private water suppliers, agriculture, industry, domestic users, regional
councils of government, commissions of public works, power generation
facilities, special purpose districts and soil and water conservation
districts.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE MANAGEMENT AREAS.
      (1)   There are four drought management areas corresponding to the major
river basins in the state. The four areas are:
         (a)   West or Savannah;
         (b)   Central or Santee;
         (c)   Northeast or Pee Dee; and
         (d)   Southern or Ashepoo, Combahee and Edisto.
      (2)   In order to prevent overly broad response to drought conditions,
drought response measures shall be considered within individual drought
management areas or within individual counties, as applicable.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water used specifically for firefighting, maintaining
in-stream flow requirements and to satisfy federal, state or local public
health and safety requirements.
   FINISHED WATER. Water distributed for use after treatment. The terms WATER
USE, WATER USER and WATER CUSTOMER refer to FINISHED WATER USE unless otherwise
defined.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water used by government, public and private
educational institutions, churches and places of worship, water utilities and
organizations within the public domain.
   IRRIGATION WATER USE. Water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns, shrubs,
flowers, athletic fields, rights-of-way and medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Categories of water use other than essential water
use. Examples of NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE include landscape irrigation and the
washing of buildings, parking lots, automobiles and the like.
   STATE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES. The state agency with primacy to
implement the provisions of the Drought Response Act, being S.C. Code §§ 49-23-
10 et seq.
   WATER SUPPLY SHORTAGE. Lack of adequate, available water caused by drought
to meet normal demands.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 34-344 STATUS OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall prevail and control in the event
of any inconsistency between this article and other rules and regulations of
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to invalidate or be
interpreted in a manner inconsistent with any covenants now in effect and given
as security to holders of bonds secured by revenues of the system.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§§ 34-345—34-360 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN
§ 34-361 ORGANIZATION OF DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN; ADMINISTRATION; INDICATORS;
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Introduction. To ensure that the city adequately manages its water
system during drought-related conditions, an organized plan is necessary for
system operation and reliability, proper communications, effective coordination
and ultimate allocation of water use. Prior planning will complement the city’s
ability to respond to drought conditions and to enforce the related ordinance.
   (B)   Designation of water system drought response representative.
Administrating a drought plan requires the skills needed to undertake a
comprehensive public information program and the judgment required to deal with
equity issues arising from enforcement of a mandatory program. Someone who has
these skills will be selected by the water system to manage the water system’s
program and serve as the principal contact for the news media as the water
system’s drought response representative. The drought response representative
shall be the person so designated by the City Council.
   (C)   Description of water system layout, water services, capacities and
yields. The city currently has five wells ranging in capacity from 450 GPM to
1,000 GPM. Total pumping capacity is approximately 3,150 GPM. Storage capacity
includes one 75,000-gallon and three 250,000-gallon elevated storage tanks.
Total capacity is 825,000 gallons. The water supply sources available to the
system are five groundwater wells approximately 350 feet deep. The SCDHEC total
permitted capacity of the water system operated by the city is 3,000,000
gallons per day.
   (D)   Identification of water system specific drought or water shortage
indicators. Operators must maintain historical trends that are valuable
indicators of a system’s ability to meet demand when demand begins to outpace
supply. The city has developed triggers for use during drought or demand water
shortages that describe when specific phases of the drought response ordinance
are implemented. The system triggers are as follows:
      (1)   Moderate drought phase. Aquifer levels drop five feet or more below
normal pumping or static levels;
      (2)   Severe drought phase. Aquifer levels drop ten feet or more below
normal pumping or static levels; and
      (3)   Extreme drought phase. Aquifer levels drop 15 feet or more below
normal pumping or static levels.
   (E)   Cooperative agreements and alternative water supply sources.
Successful drought management requires a comprehensive program by the water
utility. In many situations, administrative agreements are required with other
agencies to fully implement the plan. Agreements with other water purveyors may
be necessary for alternative water supply sources. Other agreements that
strengthen conservation efforts by large users may be necessary.
   (F)   Description of pre-drought planning efforts. Before the occurrence of
a water supply shortage and the need to implement the emergency provisions of
the article, it is important that certain pre-response measures be taken with
the aim of conserving the system’s source water, as well as the water
distributed to the customer. In regard to the conservation measures listed
below, the city has taken the following actions:
      (1)   Identification of all major water users of the system: South
Atlantic Canners, Lee Correctional Institute, Rexam; and
      (2)   A vigorous public education program is critical for achieving
substantial water use reductions. An effective public outreach program will
keep the public informed about the water supply situation, what actions will
mitigate drought emergency problems, and how well the public is doing in terms
of meeting the program goals. Keeping the public involved, informed and
participating in the decision-making process is key to implementing an
effective drought management plan. Efforts to develop an effective drought-
related public education program include running ads in local newspapers and
radio stations, if necessary, delivering brochures to customers and having
conservation brochures available to customers at the City Hall.
   (G)   Description of capital planning and investment for system reliability
and demand forecasting. Water utilities routinely find that capital
improvements to the system strongly enhance their ability to get through times
of drought. It is important that every water utility aggressively plan and
build for future needs. The utility must continue to provide for system
operation flexibility, improved pumping and storage capacity and new
technologies to meet the demands of tomorrow. The city added a new well to the
system in 1994. By doing so, the city did not experience any problems that so
many others had during the past five-year drought. The city will continue to
monitor the daily and peak demands and continues planning for any increase in
demand or potential shortage due to drought periods. The city is in the process
of putting the fifth well on line and has recently put the fourth elevated tank
on the system. The city should situate any new wells a distance far enough away
from existing wells so that it will not affect the static or pumping levels of
existing wells, preferably on the north or northwest side of the city.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§§ 34-362—34-380 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. DROUGHT PHASES
§ 34-381 MODERATE DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a moderate
drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon
determination by the city that a moderate water supply shortage exists based on
trigger levels, the city will seek voluntary reductions from its customers in
the use of water for all purposes and voluntary reductions on using water
during certain peak water demand periods. Specifically, the goal during this
phase is to achieve a reduction of 20% in residential water use and 15% in
other water uses such as commercial, industrial, institutional and irrigation;
and a reduction in overall water use of 15%.
   (B)   To accomplish this, the city will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to local media, the city’s
customers and to the State Department of Natural Resources drought information
center that moderate drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources drought information center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the voluntary
conservation measures that the customers are requested to follow during
moderate drought conditions, including:
         (a)   Reduce residential water use to 65 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 200 gallons per household per day;
         (b)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard-surfaced areas;
         (c)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (d)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
         (e)   Eliminate the domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars and
the like;
         (f)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
         (g)   Reduce watering of lawns, plants, trees, gardens, shrubbery and
flora on private or public property to the minimum necessary. Encourage outdoor
watering to be done during off-peak hours;
         (h)   Reduce the amount of water obtained from fire hydrants for
construction purposes, fire drills or for any purpose other than firefighting
or flushing necessary to maintain water quality; and
         (i)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers,
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.    Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational
ponds and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic
life; and
            3.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Cease to install new irrigation taps on the water system; and
      (5)   Continue to encourage and educate customers to comply with
voluntary water conservation.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 34-382 SEVERE DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a severe
drought condition is present and is expected to persist, and/or upon
determination by the city that a severe water supply shortage exists, the city
will seek voluntary reduction in the use of water for all purposes and
mandatory restrictions on non-essential usage and restrictions on times when
certain water usage is allowed. Specifically, the goal during this phase is to
achieve a reduction of 25% in residential water use, 20% in all other water use
categories and a reduction in overall water use of 20%.
   (B)   To accomplish these goals, the city will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, city’s
customers and to the State Department of Natural Resources drought information
center that severe drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources drought information center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the voluntary
conservation measures and mandatory restrictions to be placed on the use of
water supplied by the utility, including:
         (a)   Voluntary reduction of residential water use by the utility’s
customers to 55 gallons per person per day and a maximum of 170 gallons per
household or REU per day;
         (b)   Control landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers by
staggering watering times;
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities, including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard-surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   Eliminate domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars and the
like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools; and
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
         (d)   Limit use of water by commercial and individual customers,
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system;
      (5)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested;
      (6)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts and
emphasize the penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions;
and
      (7)   Provide written notification monthly to the State Department of
Natural Resources drought information center regarding the success of the
voluntary and mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 34-383 EXTREME DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that an extreme
drought condition is present and is expected to persist, and/or upon
determination by the city that an extreme water supply shortage exists based on
the trigger levels, the city will impose mandatory restrictions in the use of
water for all purposes and on the times when certain water usage is allowed.
Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of 30% in
residential water use, 25% in all other categories of water uses and a
reduction in overall water use of 25%.
   (B)   To accomplish these goals, the city will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, the city’s
customers and to the State Department of Natural Resources drought information
center that extreme drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources drought information center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the mandatory
restrictions to be placed on the use of water supplied by the utility,
including:
         (a)   Limiting residential water use to 45 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 145 gallons per household or REU per day;
         (b)   Eliminate landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers;
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities, including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard-surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   No domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars and the like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools; and
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
         (d)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers,
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of their
grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system;
      (5)   Outline other conservation measures, examples are:
         (a)   May place a moratorium on the issuance of all new water service
connections and contracts for all new water main extensions. As part of the
public information process, provide notice to developers of the moratorium;
         (b)   Encourage all residential water customers to voluntarily reduce
overall monthly water usage to 70% of the customer’s monthly average. If
voluntary reduction of usage is not successful, the city may, at its option,
implement the following excessive use rate schedule for water for residential
customers:
            1.   Tier I: Zero to 7,500 gallons, regular rate; and
            2.   Tier II: over 7,500 gallons, 50% increase above normal rate.
         (c)   If the conservation measures of the ordinance or plan prove
inadequate to mitigate the effects of the drought conditions or water supply
availability, the city may take additional actions, including, but not limited
to:
            1.   Decreasing the gallon limits in the different tiers; and
            2.   Reduction of water system pressure as needed.
      (6)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested;
      (7)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts as
conducted under the moderate and severe drought phase and emphasize the
penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions; and
      (8)   Provide written notification monthly to the State Department of
Natural Resources drought information center regarding the success of the
mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 34-384 RATIONING.
   If a drought threatens the protection of public health and safety, the city
is hereby authorized to ration water.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§§ 34-385—34-400 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. ADMINISTRATION
§ 34-401 ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   If any customer of the city fails to comply with the mandatory water
use restrictions of this article, the customer shall be given a written notice
of such failure to comply, which cites the date of said violation, and shall be
assessed surcharges in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   First violation: issue a notice to comply;
      (2)   Second violation: an additional $50 surcharge shall be added to the
customer’s water bill; and
      (3)   Third violation: the customer’s water service shall be terminated
and restored only after payment of a surcharge of $250 in addition to all
previously assessed surcharges.
   (B)   Law enforcement agencies and other authorized agencies or designated
employees in the respective jurisdiction which is being supplied water by the
city shall diligently enforce the provisions of the drought response ordinance.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
§ 34-402 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Customers who in their belief are unable to comply with the mandatory
water use restrictions of this article may petition for a variance from
restrictions by filing a petition with the city within ten working days after
the issuance of the proclamation requiring water use restrictions. All
petitions for variance shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner;
      (2)   Purpose of water usage;
      (3)   Special provision from which the petitioner is requesting relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration adversely
affects the petitioner;
      (5)   Description of the relief desired;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Economic value of the water use;
      (8)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner complies
with the article;
      (9)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
      (10)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from which
the variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
      (11)   Other information as needed.
   (B)   In order for the variance to be granted, the petitioner must
demonstrate clearly that compliance with this article cannot be technically
accomplished during the duration of the water supply shortage without having an
adverse impact upon the best interests of the community. The city is authorized
to grant the request for variance.
   (C)   In addition, the city is authorized to grant temporary variances for
existing water uses otherwise prohibited under the article if it is determined
that failure to grant such variances could cause an emergency condition
adversely affecting health, sanitation and fire protection for the public. No
such variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of this
article occurring prior to the issuance of the variance. Variances granted by
the city shall include a timetable for compliance and shall expire when the
water supply shortage no longer exists, unless the petitioner has failed to
meet specified requirements.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 6-3-2003)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Section Code Section
S.C. Code Section           Code Section
Title 5                     14-1
5-1-230                     Ch. 34
5-5-10                      Charter;
                            2-1
5-7-10 et seq.              Ch. 2;
                            Ch. 28
                            Ch. 2;
5-7-30                      16-21;
                            Ch. 30;
                            32-3
5-7-80                      16-21
5-7-110                     Ch. 18
5-7-130                     Ch. 2
5-7-160                     Ch. 2;
                            2-44
5-7-170                     2-3
5-7-190                     2-4
5-7-220                     2-131
5-7-230                     2-151
5-7-240                     2-209
5-7-250                     2-41
5-7-250(d)                  2-9
5-7-260                     2-8
5-7-270                     2-12
5-7-280                     2-10
5-7-290                     2-10
5-7-300                     Ch. 30
5-11-10 et seq.             2-1
5-11-20                     1-5;
                            2-20
5-11-40                     2-114
5-15-10 et seq.             Ch. 2;
                            2-81
5-15-50                     2-84
5-15-61                     2-82
5-15-120                    2-89
5-15-145                    2-94
5-21-50                     Ch. 2
5-21-110                    Ch. 30
5-21-120                    30-8
5-21-210 et seq.            Ch. 2
5-25-20                     Ch. 12
5-27-120                    Ch. 28
5-27-910                    Ch. 28
5-31-610                    Ch. 34
5-31-810                    Ch. 34
5-31-900                    Ch. 34
5-31-2030                   Ch. 34
Title 6                     14-1
6-1-300 et seq.             Ch. 30
6-1-330                     Ch. 2
6-1-400 et seq.             8-40
6-1-410                     8-31;
                            8-36
6-1-500 et seq.             Ch. 30
6-1-700 et seq.             Ch. 30
6-7-830                     Zoning Ordinance
6-9-60                      Ch. 6
6-9-65(B)                   Ch. 6
6-9-130                     Ch. 6
6-29-310 et seq.            Ch. 24
6-29-790                    Zoning Ordinance
6-29-870                    Zoning Ordinance
7-1-10 et seq.              Ch. 2
7-13-75                     Ch. 2
8-7-90                      Ch. 2
8-240                       Ch. 6
8-245                       Ch. 6
8-265                       Ch. 6
11-35-50                    2-236
12-21-2720(A)(1)            Ch. 8, App. A
12-21-2720(A)(2)            Ch. 8, App. A
12-21-2720(A)(3)            Ch. 8, App. A
12-21-2720(B)               Ch. 8, App. A
12-21-2728                  Ch. 8, App. A
12-21-2746                  Ch. 8, App. A
12-23-210                   Ch. 8, App. A
12-37-40                    30-3
12-49-10 through 12-49-90   Ch. 30
12-49-910 through 12-49-970 Ch. 30
12-51-40 et seq.            Ch. 30
12-51-90(B)                 30-29
14-1-150                    2-45
14-25-15(D)                 3-3
14-25-65                    20-73
15-1-320(a)                 1-5
15-43-10(a)                 20-46
16-1-40                     20-79
16-3-1020                   20-152
16-5-50                     20-73
16-5-120                    20-75
16-7-420                    20-50
16-11-600                   20-105
16-11-610                   20-105
16-11-650                   20-102
16-11-680                   20-106
16-13-340                   20-104
16-15-90                    20-42;
                            20-43
16-15-130                   20-41
16-17-520                   20-74
16-17-530                   20-72
16-19-40                    20-47
17-19-60                    Zoning Ordinance
19-445.2155                 2-236
23-9-380                    Ch. 2
23-28-10 et seq.            Ch. 18
23-31-520                   20-71
23-36-150                   Ch. 12
23-43-10                    Zoning Ordinance
30-4-10 et seq.             2-52
30-4-60                     2-52
30-4-70                     2-52
30-4-80                     2-41
31-15-10 et seq.            Ch. 6
31-21-10 et seq.            Ch. 10
31-21-40                    Ch. 10
                            8-22;
38-7                        8-31; 8-16;
                            Ch. 8, App. A
38-7-20                     8-22
                            8-22;
38-45                       8-31;
                            8-36;
                            Ch. 8, App. A
40-21                       Zoning Ordinance
40-41-310                   20-49
                            Ch. 12;
                            12-32—
40-56-1 et seq.             12-34;
                            12-36;
                            12-38;
                            12-39
44-3-10                     16-1
44-96-10 et seq.            Ch. 26
44-96-90                    Ch. 26
46-19-110                   Ch. 28
47-3-20                     Ch. 4
47-3-40                     Ch. 4
47-3-55                     Ch. 4
47-3-60                     Ch. 4
47-3-70                     Ch. 4
47-5-60                     Ch. 4;
                            4-25
47-5-80                     Ch. 4
48-53-20                    28-26
49-23-10 et seq.            34-342;
                            34-343
49-23-90                    34-341
50-9-675                    Ch. 4
51-15-20                    Ch. 22
55-9-190                    Ch. 2
Chapter 56                  32-21
56-1-20                     32-4
56-5-30                     Ch. 32
56-5-110 et seq.            32-2
56-5-710                    Ch. 32
56-5-710(A)(1)              Ch. 32
56-5-710(A)(8)              32-155
56-5-1270                   32-114
56-5-1520                   Ch. 32
56-5-1540                   Ch. 32
56-5-1890                   32-31
56-5-1960                   12-5
56-5-2510 et seq.           32-85
56-5-2530                   12-4
56-5-3120                   32-134
56-5-3850                   12-9
56-5-5810 through 56-5-5950 32-94
56-5-5850                   32-94
56-5-6120                   32-5
56-7-80                     Zoning Ordinance
                            8-22;
58-9-20                     8-31;
                            8-36
                            8-61;
58-9-2200                   8-64;
                            Ch. 8, App. A
61-56                       Ch. 34
61-57                       Ch. 34
61-58                       Ch. 34
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
88-89-4   6-6-1989    6-4
88-89-10  6-20-1989   2-3
89-90-2   9-25-1989   8-1
89-90-5   11-21-1989  24-1—
                      24-3
11        12-4-1990   34-289
14        7-16-1991   26-22
                      10-1—
                      10-4;
22        11-2-1993   10-21—
                      10-23;
                      10-41;
                      10-42
43        11-2-1993   10-42
51        5-7-1996    15.224
60        3-17-1998   34-289
99-06     9-21-1999   8-61—
                      8-64
00-04     6-20-2000   26-22
01-02     1-8-2001    6-4
01-04     6-19-2001   34-213
01-08     8-7-2001    16-52;
                      16-54
01-10     9-4-2001    34-125
                      34-121;
                      34-141—
                      34-146;
                      34-161—
                      34-167;
                      34-181—
                      34-196;
                      34-211—
02-01     5-7-2002    34-223;
                      34-241—
                      34-246;
                      34-261—
                      34-263;
                      34-281—
                      34-289;
                      34-311—
                      34-320
                      34-341—
                      34-344;
                      34-361;
03-01     6-3-2003    34-381—
                      34-384;
                      34-401;
                      34-402
03-03     8-19-2003   32-201
-         5-3-2005    28-35.1
05-05     1-10-2006   34-62
09-03     10-6-2009   34-63
09-04     12-1-2009   2-83
10-01A    6-23-2010   34-102;
                      34-123
10-01B    6-23-2010   26-22
11-01     4-5-2011    2-115
11-02A    6-28-2011   34-102;
                      34-123
11-02B    6-28-2011   26-22
11-05     11-1-2011   34-84
11-05A    1-3-2012    34-84
12-02A    3-6-2012    26-22
12-03A    6-26-2012   34-102;
                      34-123
12-03B    6-26-2012   26-22
13-04     6-18-2013   2-47
13-06A    6-18-2013   34-102;
                      34-123
13-06B    6-18-2013   26-22
                      2-231—
2013-5    7-2-2013    2-234;
                      2-236
2013-07   8-6-2013    2-42
                      6-62—
2013-8    10-1-2013   6-69;
                      32-94
-         5- -2014    Zoning Ordinance
2014-02   5-20-2014   2-41
2014-03A  6-17-2014   34-102;
                      34-123
2014-03B  6-17-2014   26-22
2014-05   10-7-2014   6-65
                      16-21—
                      16-33;
                      16-51;
2014-06   10-7-2014   16-52;
                      16-54;
                      16-71—
                      16-73
2014-07   12-2-2014   2-42
2014-08   12-2-2014   2-47
2015-01A  6-23-2015   34-102;
                      34-123
2015-01B  6-23-2015   26-22
15-02     8-4-2015    32-94
2017-02-A 6-27-2017   26-22
2019-02   9-3-2019    6-4;
                      6-70
                      3-1—
                      3-5;
2020-03   7-7-2020    3-11—
                      3-17;
                      3-21;
                      3-22
2020-06   10-21-2020  2-41
                      14-1—
                      14-10;
                      14-31;
                      14-41—
                      14-45;
21-04     4-22-2021   14-51—
                      14-56;
                      14-71—
                      14-79;
                      14-91—
                      14-93
2021-07   11-2-2021   6-4
                      8-21—
2021-08   12-7-2021   8-41;
                      Ch. 8, App. A;
                      Ch. 8, App. B
                      8-21—
2022-01   3-1-2022    8-41;
                      Ch. 8, App. A;
                      Ch. 8, App. B
2022-02   4-13-2022   2-3
                      2-87;
2022-04   2-7-2023    2-88;
                      2-94
2023-034  6-28-2023   2-20—
                      2-23
2023-05   12-13-2023  Ch. 8, App. A;
                      Ch. 8, App. B
                     
 
 
