TOWN OF CALHOUN FALLS,
SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-121, passed 12-4-2024
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
CALHOUN FALLS, SOUTH CAROLINA
TOWN COUNCIL
Mayor             Terrico Holland
Mayor Pro-Tem     Johnny Gilchrist
Member            Howard Harmon
Member            Wane Postell
Member            Sam Hill
                  
TOWN ADMINISTRATION
Clerk/Treasurer   Wendi Alewine
Mayor’s AssistanShanda Russell
Clerk of Court    Stephanie Copelan
Utilities Clerk   Jamie Willoughby
                  
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
10.01   Designation and citation
10.02   Continuation of existing ordinances
10.03   Definitions
10.04   Rules of construction
10.05   Catchlines
10.06   Severability
10.07   Effect of repeal or expiration
10.08   Amendments
10.09   Altering the code
10.10   Liability for violations
10.11   Prosecution for different penalties
10.12   Municipal uniform ordinance summons
10.13   Recording, filing, publication of ordinances
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
10.15   Supplementation of code
10.16   Certain ordinances not affected by code
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION AND CITATION.
   The ordinances embraced in this and following chapters and sections
constitute and are designated as “The Code of Ordinances of Calhoun Falls,
South Carolina”, and may be so cited. They may be cited also as the “Calhoun
Falls Town Code” or “The Town Code of Calhoun Falls”.
§ 10.02 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND or OR. The word AND may be read as OR, and the word OR may be read as
AND where the sense requires it.
   BOND. When BOND is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
   CLERK/TREASURER. The Municipal Town Clerk/Treasurer. The title may be used
interchangeably with “Clerk”, “Town Clerk” or “Clerk/Treasurer”, if one person
holds both positions.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, computed by
excluding the first day and including the last and, if the last day be Sunday
or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded. The day the act, event or default
after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included.
The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a
Saturday, Sunday or a state or federal holiday, in which event the period runs
until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday nor the
holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. A half holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
holiday.
   CORPORATE LIMITS, CORPORATION LIMITS. Whenever the words CORPORATE LIMITS,
CORPORATION LIMITS or words of similar import are used, they shall mean the
legal boundary of the Town of Calhoun Falls.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, as defined in S.C. Code § 5-
11-20.
   COUNTY. The County of Abbeville, State of South Carolina.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears in this code requiring
the manager of a department or other officer of the town to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be constructed to authorize the manager of the
department or other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates
to perform the required act or make the required inspection, unless the terms
of the provision or section designate otherwise.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire and Police Departments, ambulances
and/or emergency vehicles or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the State Department of Highways and Transportation or by the
Town Council.
   GENDER. See §
10.04(B).
   IN THE TOWN. Any territory, jurisdiction of which, for the exercise of the
town’s regulatory power, has been conferred on it by public or local law.
   INTERPRETATION. In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restriction upon the
subject matter than another more general provision imposed by the code, the
provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving joint authority to three or more persons
or offices shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
   KEEPER, PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and
partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or
employee.
   MAY. The act shall be permissive.
   MINOR. All references to MINORS in this code shall be deemed to mean persons
under the age of 18 years, except as otherwise provided in laws relating to the
sale of alcoholic beverages.
   MONTH. A calendar month, unless defined otherwise.
   MUNICIPALITY. May be used interchangeably with TOWN and shall mean the
entire area within the corporate limits.
   NAME OF OFFICIAL, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to an
official, board, commission, department and the like, by title only, it shall
be construed as though the words “of the Town of Calhoun Falls” were added.
   NONTECHNICAL and TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law shall be construed and understood according to the meaning.
   NUMBER. See §
10.04(A).
   OATH or SWEAR. SWORN shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in
those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be the equivalent to words AFFIRM
and AFFIRMED and vice versa.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or part
of the building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group as a unit, as well as an individual or individuals.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property, as
defined in this section.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. The next before and the next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. Place or places.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto
and any river or other waterway.
   REAL PROPERTY and REAL ESTATE. Lands, tenements and the hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as the person’s place of
habitation, and to which, whenever the person is absent, the person has the
intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another,
the place where the person sleeps shall be deemed the person’s RESIDENCE.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. Territory contiguous to, and including, a street not
comprising a business district when the property on the street for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with dwellings or dwellings and
buildings in use with residences.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SEAL. The town or corporate seal.
   SHALL. The act shall be mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line or the lateral lines
of a roadway where there is no curb and the adjacent property line intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. A mark, when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STATUTE REFERENCES.
      (1)   Whenever reference is made, for example, to S.C. Code § 44-1-160,
it shall be constructed to refer to the code of Laws of South Carolina, § 44-1-
160, as amended, or whatever section is to be cited.
      (2)   Whenever reference is made, for example, to Acts 1944, p.1301, it
shall be constructed to refer to page 1301 of the Acts of South Carolina 1944,
or whatever page and year is to be cited.
   STREET.
      (1)   Streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
bridges and all other public thoroughfares and shall mean the entire width
thereof between abutting property lines.
      (2)   It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or footpath, unless the
contrary is expressed or unless the construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of a building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TENSE. Words used in the past and present tense shall include the future as
well as the past and present.
   TOWN. The Town of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   WRITING. The words WRITING or WRITTEN shall include printing and any other
mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise defined.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
   (B)   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females also
and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
   (C)   All words importing the present tense shall apply to the future also.
§ 10.05 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code, printed in capital
letters, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate or emphasize the contents
of the sections, not as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so
provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the
catchlines, are ended or reenacted.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that, if any
section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall be declared
unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code since the same
would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code of any
unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, division or section.
§ 10.07 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to the adoption of this code, which
amend, repeal or, in any way, affect this code, shall be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. In the
case of repealed chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof by
subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following, but not necessarily the exact, language:
“that §               (number to be inserted) of the Town Code of the Town of
Calhoun Falls is hereby amended as follows:                              .”
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “that the Calhoun Falls Town
Code, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered §               
(number to be inserted), which section shall read as follows:              .”
The new section shall then be set out in full as enacted and the sections of
this code may be renumbered to accomplish the intention.
   (D)   All divisions, sections, chapters or provisions to be repealed shall
be specifically repealed by division, section or chapter number, as the case
may be.
§ 10.09 ALTERING THE CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the laws of the municipality to be misrepresented thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.10 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation, unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment
shall, in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation, unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation, unincorporated association or
organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where the
violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order
of any person.
§ 10.11 PROSECUTION FOR DIFFERENT PENALTIES.
   In all cases where the same offense may be created by different clauses or
sections of the ordinances of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense.
§ 10.12 MUNICIPAL UNIFORM ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the code, or any
code adopted pursuant thereto, within the corporate limits of the town, may be
issued a uniform ordinance summons.
      (2)   Issuance of the uniform ordinance summons shall vest jurisdiction
in the Municipal Court to hear and dispose of the charge for which the uniform
ordinance summons was issued and served.
      (3)   The uniform ordinance summons may be issued by any town law
enforcement officer or any other town employees designated by the Council as
code enforcement officers.
      (4)   The bond amount for violations shall be prescribed by the Chief
Municipal Court Judge. Town law enforcement or code enforcement officers are
prohibited from accepting bonds. Bonds are to be posted in the manner
prescribed in the uniform ordinance summons.
      (5)   The uniform ordinance summons shall not be used to perform a
custodial arrest.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any ordinance which regulates the use
of motor vehicles on the public roads.
§ 10.13 RECORDING, FILING, PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Council shall be recorded by the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer in proper books with indexes. The originals shall be filed in
the Clerk/Treasurer’s office and due proof of the publication of all ordinances
requiring publication, by the certificate of the publisher or printer, shall be
procured by the Clerk/Treasurer, and attached thereto, or written and attested
upon the face of the record of the ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Proof of ordinance of municipality, see S.C. Code § 19-3-10
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall take effect upon their publication, unless an ordinance
shall otherwise specify the time when it shall go into effect.
§ 10.15 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Town Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the Council or adopted by initiative and
referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into the
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this section”, “this division” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections             to             ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.16 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code, or the ordinance adopting this code, shall
affect any ordinance:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the town,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of the town’s
indebtedness or any contract or obligations assumed by the town;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Town Council not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise and establishing any rates
therefor;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the town;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes, not inconsistent with this code;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades of streets in the town;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the town or
prescribing subdivision regulations;
      (10)   Adopting, extending or contracting the boundaries of the town;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any town
officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith;
      (12)   Prescribing zoning regulations or rezoning particular property;
and
      (13)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
   (B)   All ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and
effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. The ordinances
are on file in the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty; continuing violation.
      (1)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance or resolution of the
municipality or rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency
of the municipality under authority duly vested in him, her or it, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or misdemeanor,
or the doing of any act is required, where no specific penalty is provided for
the violation thereof, the violation of any provisions of this code, ordinance,
resolution, rule, regulation or order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500 and/or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days; provided,
however, that, no penalty shall exceed the penalty provided by the state law
for similar offenses.
      (2)   Each day any violation of this code or any ordinances, rules or
regulations shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010)
   (B)   Violations of rules, regulations and orders. Except as otherwise
provided in this code, the violation of any rules, regulations or orders
promulgated by any officer or agency of the municipality under authority vested
in him or her or it by law or by the provisions of the code or any ordinance or
resolution shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.020)
   (C)   Use of ordinance summons. Any municipal law enforcement or code
enforcement officer of the town is authorized to use an ordinance summons to
cite municipal ordinance violations. The use of the ordinance summons shall
conform with S.C. Code § 56-7-80, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.030)
   (D)   Liability of corporations; agents for violations.
      (1)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation, unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment
shall, in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation,
association or organization.
      (2)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
the violation was the act or omission, the result of the act, omission or order
of any person.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.040)
(Ord. 92-14, passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   The section deals with liability of corporations by persons authorized to
act for it. The legal terminology for this is respondeat superior or vicarious
liability, which simply means that one may commit a crime through the agency of
another. State v. Johnson. 255 S.C. 14, 176 S.E.2d. 575 (1970).
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Limitation on fine and term of imprisonment, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Maximum penalties that Municipal Judge may impose, see S.C. Code § 14-25-65
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
   
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   
33.   TOWN POLICIES
   
34.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
   
35.   MUNICIPAL COURTS
   
36.   REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
30.01   Form of government
30.02   Municipal elections
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   Pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 5-11-10 through 5-11-40, the form of government for
the municipality shall be Council form.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. 04-01, passed 6-17-2004)
§ 30.02 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Town of Calhoun Falls Municipal Election Commission is hereby
abolished. All powers and duties formerly performed by the Municipal Election
Commission of the Town of Calhoun Falls shall be exercised by the Abbeville
County Registration and Elections Commission.
   (B)   The voting hours and voting place for Town of Calhoun Falls elections
shall be determined by the Abbeville County Registration and Elections
Commission. Nonpartisan, runoff, special, and at-large elections shall be
conducted by the Abbeville County Registration and Elections Commission.
   (C)   Candidates desiring entry in any nonpartisan regular or special
election shall file with the Abbeville County Registration and Elections
Commission, by delivering to such Commissions in Abbeville, South Carolina a
notice of candidacy and a filing fee, if any, the same to be so filed not
earlier than 60 days nor later than 12:00 noon 30 days prior to the date of the
election. Fees, if any, shall be payable and paid at the time of filing the
notice of candidacy. Candidates shall file expense statements as required by
law.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 9-8-2014)
CHAPTER 31: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
31.01   Composition and election of Council
31.02   Compensation of Mayor and Council
31.03   Term of Mayor and Council
31.04   Oath of Mayor and Council
31.05   Emergency powers of Mayor
31.06   Powers and duties of the Mayor
31.07   Mayor Pro Tempore
Rules of Order for Council Meetings
31.20   Meetings of Council; date, time and place
31.21   Executive sessions
31.22   Conference sessions
31.23   Minutes of meetings
31.24   Quorum and Robert’s Rules of Order
31.25   Voting requirements
31.26   Order of proceedings of Council
31.27   Appearance of citizens
31.28   Agenda
31.29   Town Attorney to attend
31.30   Town Clerk/Treasurer to attend
31.31   Special committees
Ordinances
31.45   Ordinances; for benefit of town
31.46   Style of ordinances
31.47   Ordinances; entered in book
31.48   Notation of amending or repealing ordinances
31.49   Introduction of ordinances
31.50   Introduction of resolutions
31.51   Codification of ordinances
31.52   Notice required
31.53   Enactment of ordinances
31.54   Adoption of resolutions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COMPOSITION AND ELECTION OF COUNCIL.
   The Council shall be composed of a Mayor and five, seven or nine Council
members, including the Mayor, who shall be elected at large at an election held
as provided in §
30.02 and as provided in the applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and Council shall receive salaries as fixed by Council; provided,
no increase or decrease in salary shall take effect during the term of Council
in which the change is approved; provided, further, a decrease in salary shall
take effect immediately if approved by unanimous vote of all the members of
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.020)
§ 31.03 TERM OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   (A)   The term of office for the Mayor shall be changed from two years to
four years and the term of office for the Town Council shall be changed from
two years to four-year staggered terms with the following provisions.
   (B)   No more than half of the Council and Mayor shall be elected in the
same general election.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.030) (Ord. 93-05, passed - -)
§ 31.04 OATH OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and Council, before entering upon the duties of their respective
offices, shall take the following oath, to wit:
   “As Mayor (Council member) of the Town of Calhoun Falls, I will equally,
fairly and impartially, to the best of my ability and skill, exercise the trust
reposed in me, and I will use my best endeavors to preserve the peace and carry
into effect according to law the purposes for which I have been elected. So
help me God.”
(Prior Code, § 2.08.040)
§ 31.05 EMERGENCY POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
great public crises, disaster, rioting, civil disturbance, and catastrophe or
for any other reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health,
welfare, or property.
   (B)   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the
lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the town or threatening
damage to or destruction of property, the Council is authorized and empowered
to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such a
state of emergency, and in order more effectively to protect the lives, safety,
and property of the town, to define and impose a curfew applicable to all
persons within the jurisdiction of the municipality and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from the curfew police officers, fire fighters,
doctors, nurses, and such others as may be essential to the preservation of
public order and immediately necessary to serve the needs of the people within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.1115) (Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 31.06 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Council. The Mayor
shall also be the official representative of the town in any public affairs.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be the chief administrative officer of the town and
shall have only the additional powers and duties outlined herein. Any powers
not specifically conferred upon the Mayor as outlined herein shall be retained
by Council. Council reserves the right to delegate additional powers and duties
to others in the best interests of the town. The Mayor shall be responsible to
the Council for the administration of all town affairs placed in his or her
charge by or under this chapter. He or she shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To preside at meetings of the Council and vote as other Council
members;
      (2)   To direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
officers, and agencies of the town except that Council reserves unto itself the
authority to hire, supervise, discipline, and/or discharge all department heads
and also reserves the authority to delegate to others such aforementioned
powers as to department heads that it determines are in the best interests of
the town;
      (3)   To act to insure that all laws, provisions of this chapter, and
ordinances of the Council, subject to enforcement by him or her or by offices
subject to his or her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
      (4)   To work with any administrator(s) to prepare and submit the annual
budget and capital program to the Council;
      (5)   To submit to the Council and make available to the public a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the town as of
the end of each fiscal year;
      (6)   To make such other reports as the Council may require concerning
the operations of the municipal departments, offices, and agencies subject to
his or her direction and supervision;
      (7)   To utilize a car owned by the town at the Mayor’s discretion at any
time of the day or night; and
      (8)   To review and approve on behalf of the town any competitive bid for
services from a third-party that the Mayor believes is in the town’s best
interest in an amount less than $5,000. Any bids for services above such amount
shall require approval by Town Council.
   (C)   Authority to delegate. Council may employ an Administrator to assist
the Council and the Mayor. The Council may delegate and assign powers and
duties to the Administrator as it deems appropriate.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-16-2015; Ord. - -, passed 12-9-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Town Administrator, see §
32.22
§ 31.07 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The Town Council shall, at the first meeting of the newly constituted
Council after any general election for Municipal Council, elect one of its
members as Mayor Pro Tempore for a term of two years.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.060)
RULES OF ORDER FOR COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 31.20 MEETINGS OF COUNCIL; DATE, TIME AND PLACE.
   (A)   The regular meeting of the Council shall be held at the Town Hall on
the fourth Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. unless changed by a majority vote
of members present at any regular or special meeting. The Council shall give
written public notice of regular meetings of the Council at the beginning of
each calendar year.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be held on the call of the Mayor
or a majority of the members of the Council. Notice of a special or rescheduled
meeting shall be given as early as is practicable, but not later than 24 hours
in advance of the time of the meeting by the Clerk/Treasurer. The public notice
shall include the agenda, date, time and place of the special or rescheduled
meeting and shall be given at least 24 hours in advance of the time of the
meeting to all available members of the Council by the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   All regular, special or rescheduled meetings of the Council shall be
open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -; Ord. - -, passed 1-25-2024)
§ 31.21 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   Council may hold a meeting closed to the public as permitted by the
State Freedom of Information Act, being S.C. §§ 30-4-10 et seq., and this code
at the times and in a place as may be deemed necessary and in the public
interest.
   (B)   Prior to going into executive session, the Council shall vote on the
question and, when the vote is favorable, the Mayor or presiding officer shall
announce the purpose of the executive session.
   (C)   No formal action shall be taken in executive session. The words FORMAL
ACTION mean a recorded vote committing the Council to a specific course of
action.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 31.22 CONFERENCE SESSIONS.
   Town Council may have conference sessions as permitted by the State Freedom
of Information Act and the town code at the times and in the places as may be
deemed necessary and in the public interest by the Mayor or any member of
Council. No formal vote shall be taken upon any matter under discussion at any
conference, but an informal polling of the Council may be made if desired by
any member of Council. The Town Clerk/Treasurer may, if time permits, give
notice to the news media that a conference meeting will be held pursuant to law
without stating the specific matters to be discussed. When advance notice is
not given, the Town Clerk/Treasurer may give notice of the meeting after it has
been held. No vote of Council shall be necessary to call a conference meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.030)
§ 31.23 MINUTES OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall keep the minutes of all public meetings
of Council, which shall be a matter of permanent public record. At each Council
meeting, the minutes of the previous meeting shall be presented for approval.
Minutes shall not be considered the official record of a meeting until approved
by Council.
   (B)   Any member of Council desiring to express a position on a matter voted
upon by Council in the minutes may do so by presenting the position in writing
to Council not later than the next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.040)
§ 31.24 QUORUM AND ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   A majority of the Council serving shall constitute a quorum for the conduct
of business at any meeting. The Mayor or Mayor pro tempore shall preside;
except that, in the absence of both, the members present shall elect a
presiding member. Except as otherwise required by state law or ordinance, all
proceedings of Council shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order and the
Town Attorney shall act as parliamentarian.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.050)
§ 31.25 VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All actions of Council shall be by majority vote of the members
present at a public meeting. Every member of Council present shall vote on
every question, except when required to refrain from voting by state law. The
vote on every question shall be by roll call and shall be recorded in the
Council minutes by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   No member of Council may leave the Council chamber while in public
session without permission of the presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.060)
§ 31.26 ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS OF COUNCIL.
   The order of the proceedings of the Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Reading of the minutes of the last meeting of the Council;
   (B)   Reports or communications from municipal officers;
   (C)   Unfinished business, ordinances, resolutions and the like, reports
from committees and suggestions from members;
   (D)   Reports from the various department heads as required by Council;
   (E)   Reports from special committees;
   (F)   Reports from the Board of Health if desired by Council;
   (G)   Report from treasury given with amount collected from all sources and
payments made in accordance with vouchers approved;
   (H)   Auditing and approval of bills and vouchers; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.070)
§ 31.27 APPEARANCE OF CITIZENS.
   Any citizen of the municipality shall be entitled to an appearance before
Council at any regular meeting concerning any municipal matter with the
exception of personal matters. Persons desiring to speak must notify the Town
Clerk/Treasurer on or before the Friday prior to the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.080) (Ord. - -, passed 1-25-2024)
§ 31.28 AGENDA.
   Matters to be considered by Council at a regular meeting shall be placed on
written agenda prepared by the chief administrative officer and publicly posted
by the Town Clerk/Treasurer by noon of the day preceding the meeting. Matters
not on the same agenda may be considered upon request of a member unless two
members object.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.090)
§ 31.29 TOWN ATTORNEY TO ATTEND.
   The Town Attorney shall attend all meetings of Council unless excused by
Council. He or she shall act as parliamentarian, propose ordinances and
resolutions, review all ordinances, resolutions and documents presented to
Council and give opinions upon questions of procedure, form and law to any
member of Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.100)
§ 31.30 TOWN CLERK/TREASURER TO ATTEND.
   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall be ex officio clerk of the Town Council. The
Town Clerk/Treasurer shall give notices of meetings, post the agenda, attend
regular meetings, record votes of Council, keep minutes of Council meetings and
perform other duties as may be assigned.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.110)
§ 31.31 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Council may appoint a special committee to assist in or hold a public
hearing for Council at any time for any matter pending before it.
   (B)   Minutes or reports of hearings held by special committees shall be
filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer as public records.
(Prior Code, § 2.16.120)
ORDINANCES
§ 31.45 ORDINANCES; FOR BENEFIT OF TOWN.
   It shall be the duty of the Council to pass, from time to time, ordinances
as, in its judgement, shall best promote the interest of the citizens and
property holders of the town, including:
   (A)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or abolish
any municipal department, office or agency;
   (B)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or regulation
in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
   (C)   Adopt budgets, levy taxes, except as otherwise provided with respect
to the property tax levied by adoption of a budget, pursuant to public notice;
   (D)   Grant, renew or extend franchises;
   (E)   Authorize the borrowing of money;
   (F)   Sell or lease or contract to sell or lease any lands of the town; and
   (G)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in divisions (A) through (F)
above.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.010)
§ 31.46 STYLE OF ORDINANCES.
   The style of all ordinances shall be “Be it ordered and ordained by the Town
of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina, in Council assembled and by the authority
thereof...”.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.020)
§ 31.47 ORDINANCES; ENTERED IN BOOK.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall enter in a well-bound book copies of all
ordinances passed by the Council.
   (B)   The book in which ordinances are thus entered shall be known as the
“Ordinance at Large of the Town of Calhoun Falls” and shall be indexed.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.030)
§ 31.48 NOTATION OF AMENDING OR REPEALING ORDINANCES.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall write on the first page of every ordinance if the
same has been amended or repealed, as the case may be, the words “amended” or
“repealed” with a reference to the page of the ordinance book and where the
amending or repealing ordinance can be found.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.040)
§ 31.49 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of Council. A proposed ordinance
shall be referred to the Town Attorney for approval as to form. The Town
Attorney shall render assistance in the preparation of notices and ordinances.
After an ordinance is in proper form and required notices have been given, the
Town Attorney shall send the ordinance to the Town Clerk/Treasurer to be held
for public inspection. An ordinance shall be deemed to be introduced when it
appears on an agenda for public meeting of Council and its title is read.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.050)
§ 31.50 INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   A voice motion of a member of Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution which shall require no written record other
than a notation of the Town Clerk/Treasurer in the Council minutes. A
resolution proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same manner as an
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.060)
§ 31.51 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances relating to administration, health, safety, vehicles, streets
(except franchises and encroachments), traffic, railroads, crimes and offenses,
utilities, solutions, pollution, Municipal Court, descriptions of areas annexed
to the town and any other ordinances or portions of ordinances so required by
Council shall be codified and updated annually in a looseleaf code of
ordinances. Standard codes, technical regulations and zoning ordinances may be
cited in the code by reference and copies thereof shall be made available by
the Town Clerk/Treasurer for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable
price.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.070)
§ 31.52 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Prior to the introduction of an ordinance granting a franchise, license or
right for the use of any street or public property, or for the permanent
closing of any abandoned street, the applicant for an ordinance shall publish a
notice in three issues of a newspaper having general circulation in the town
stating the nature of the street sought to be closed, and the date on which the
application is to be presented to Town Council which shall be at least one week
after the last notice. This requirement shall not apply to the temporary
closing of a public street initiated by Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.080)
§ 31.53 ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An ordinance to levy a tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds, grant a
franchise, license or right to use or occupy a public street or public property
for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is finally
passed, and in a form remain on file with the Town Clerk/Treasurer for public
inspection at least one week before final adoption.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read two times
and on two separate days with at least six days between each reading.
   (C)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on one reading without notice or
hearing by affirmative vote of two-thirds of members present. An emergency
ordinance may not levy taxes, relate to a franchise or a service rate and shall
expire automatically on the sixty-first day following enactment.
   (D)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance shall be by reading of
the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of Council.
   (E)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any member of Council or
citizen of the town interested therein may request a public hearing which may
be held at any time designated by Council prior to final adoption.
   (F)   Upon final adoption by vote of Council, an ordinance shall be signed
by the Mayor or presiding member and attested by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, who
shall file the original in the Council minutes.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.090)
§ 31.54 ADOPTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on one reading unless a public
hearing is set by a majority of the members of Council present.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.100)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
32.01   Meeting for the election of officers and employees
32.02   Vacancies in offices
32.03   Salaries
32.04   Enforcement of ordinances, laws and the like
32.05   Right of entry
32.06   Resisting or interfering with municipal officers or employees
32.07   Term of officers and removal
Specific Offices
32.20   Clerk/Treasurer
32.21   Town Attorney
32.22   Town Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEETING FOR THE ELECTION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   At the first regular meeting of the Council after the inauguration or as
soon thereafter as practicable, all municipal officers and employees provided
for in this code and any other officers deemed necessary by the Council shall
be elected by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.010)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES IN OFFICES.
   Whenever any of the officers of the municipality elected by the Council
shall be removed from office, die, resign or is incapacitated, unable to
perform the duties incident thereto any longer, a new election by the Council
to fill the vacancy during the unexpired term for which the office had been
conferred on the person so removed, dead, resigned or incapacitated shall be
held after notice to each member of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.020)
§ 32.03 SALARIES.
   Except as otherwise provided, the salary of each officer of the municipality
elected by the Council shall be fixed, designated and regulated by resolution
of the Council from time to time as the Council shall deem fit.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.030)
§ 32.04 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES, LAWS AND THE LIKE.
   All officers and employees of the municipality shall enforce obedience to
statutes, provisions of this code or any ordinances, resolutions or rules and
regulations or orders issued thereunder, as may relate to their regular duties,
and any other statutes, provisions of this code of ordinances, resolutions,
rules and regulations, or orders with whose enforcement they are properly
chargeable, by any measures provided therein, by the proper report of any
violation thereof, and by instituting proceedings as may be necessary to the
enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.040)
§ 32.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever any officer or employee of the municipality is required or
authorized by statute, the provisions of this code or any ordinance or
resolution by rules and regulations or orders issued thereunder, in order to
carry out his or her duties thereunder, to enter any premises or vehicle, the
officer or employee shall have the right to enter any premises or vehicle at
any reasonable time in pursuance of the duties.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.050)
§ 32.06 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH MUNICIPAL OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   It is unlawful for any person to resist or interfere with any member of the
Police Department, any member of the Fire Department or any municipal officer
or employee in the discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.07 TERM OF OFFICERS AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Each officer or employee of the municipality elected by the Council
shall be elected for a term as the Council may designate and shall be subject
to removal from office or employment for any cause that the Council may deem
sufficient; and each election or appointment to any office or position is made
and accepted with special reference to this section.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that,
notwithstanding any policies, memoranda or handbooks promulgated by the town or
any employment practices of the town;
      (1)   All employees of the town are employed at will and may resign or be
discharged from employment at any time;
      (2)   Only the Town Council shall have the right to enter into contracts
for other than at-will employment on the town’s behalf. Any contract, for other
than at-will employment, must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Be executed by the Town Council;
         (c)   Specify the duration of the employment; and
         (d)   Specifically state that the contract is being created pursuant
to the Town Council’s authority under this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.070) (Ord. 05-01, passed - -2005)
SPECIFIC OFFICES
§ 32.20 CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   Election; term. At the time appointed for the regular election of town
officers, there shall be elected by the Council an officer to be known as the
Clerk and Treasurer, who shall hold office for a two-year term or until his or
her successor is duly elected and qualified unless removed from office by the
Council. Notwithstanding the preceding, Council shall have the discretion to
separate the positions of Clerk and Treasurer. Moreover, Council shall have the
further discretion to elect a Clerk and to have the functions of a Treasurer
performed by an outside third party.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.010)
   (B)   Duties. The Clerk and Treasurer shall collect all claims and accounts
that may be due and payable to the municipality; give notice of meetings to
Council; keep minutes of Council proceedings; and perform other duties as are
assigned by Council; receive all moneys belonging to the municipality; issue
all licenses and badges for which provisions may be made; pay all bills owed by
the municipality when approved by the Council; deposit funds in a bank
designated by the Council; make statements of financial conditions of the
municipality as ordered by the Council; keep account of all moneys and accounts
and report to Council; give notice to all members of the Council of regular and
special meetings; and perform other duties as may be required by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.020)
   (C)   If Council separates the positions of Clerk and Treasurer, it shall
assign to each such position the duties appropriate for each. Moreover, if
Council elects to have an outside third-party perform the functions of a
Treasurer, it shall specify to such third-party what duties and
responsibilities are expected.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 32.21 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Election. There shall be elected by the Council at the time of the
regular election of officers a lawyer of good, reputable standing as Town
Attorney, who must have had at least two years of experience at the bar. The
Attorney shall hold office for two years and until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   Duties and compensation. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney
whenever called upon by the Council, or the necessity arises, to give his or
her advice and direction to the Council, or any member thereof, or to the
Clerk/Treasurer and Chief of Police on any and all legal questions which may
arise in the course of the administration of the municipal government, or in
the discharge of the duties of their respective offices; and whenever required
to do so by Council, he or she shall give his or her legal opinion in writing.
He or she shall draw or supervise the drawing or drafting of all ordinances and
other instruments of writing relative to the business of the municipality when
required to do so by the Council or any member thereof; shall, whenever
notified to do so, attend the municipal meetings and shall conduct the
correspondence on all legal subjects which it may become necessary to
investigate; and, generally, he or she shall be careful that the Council and
officers fall into no error of law in the administration and management of the
business and affairs of the municipality. The Town Attorney shall receive a
salary as fixed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.020)
§ 32.22 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment; qualifications. The Council may appoint a Town
Administrator and fix such Administrator’s compensation. The administrator
shall be appointed solely on the basis of such person's administrative
qualifications.
   (B)   Term. The Town Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of Town
Council for no definite term.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   Essential duties and responsibilities. The Town Administrator, if
any, shall be responsible to the Council for the proper administration of the
laws, ordinances, codes, policies, and affairs of the Town and, to the end,
shall have such power and authority as delegated by the Council. Such powers
may include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Direct, supervise, and coordinate administrative activities and
operations;
         (b)   Establish an internal control environment to set the tone of the
town’s government and influence the control consciousness of its employees;
         (c)   Communicate official plans, policies, and procedures to staff
and the general public and establish and maintain effective working
relationships with employees, town officials, and appointees, the general
public and other elected officials and bodies;
         (d)   Prepare a proposed annual operating budget and submit the
proposed budget to the Mayor and Council for review and consideration;
         (e)   Recommend and administer personnel policies, classification,
compensation, and evaluation for all town employees;
         (f)   Monitor the financial condition of the town and estimate present
and future financial needs;
         (g)   Prepare monthly reports on administrative activities, as
required by the Mayor and Council;
         (h)   Recommend and administer policies governing purchasing and
procedures and inventory control;
         (i)   Authorize the purchase of services, materials, supplies, and
equipment which do not require the taking of bids, provided that such items are
appropriate in the annual operating budget, capital improvements budget, or
other adopted budgets;
         (j)   Investigate complaints concerning administrative matters and
personnel performance;
         (k)   Prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council, at the end of each
fiscal year, a complete annual report on the finances and administrative
activities of the town;
         (l)   Provide the Council with information, guidance, and leadership
in matters of policy determination. In this area, the Administrator shall take
an active role in the pursuance of grants and other monies for municipal use.
      (2)   Authority to delegate. The Council may delegate to other
administrative officer(s) the authority to exercise specified duties and
responsibilities as may be considered appropriate.
   (D)   Removal from office. An Administrator may be removed from office by a
majority vote of the members of the Council. The action of the Council in
removing an Administrator shall be final.
   (E)   Communication with Mayor and Council. An Administrator shall relate to
and communicate with the Mayor and Council on all problems, situations, and
conditions, which arise concerning any department or activity of the town
which, in the opinion of the Administrator, is of significance. Except for the
purpose of inquiry, the members of the Council shall communicate directly with
the Administrator on all matters concerning any department or activity of the
town. No member of the Council shall give orders to the Administrator or any
subordinate of the Administrator, except in a case of emergency.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-16-2015)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
33.01   Personnel policy
33.02   Fraudulent checks
33.03   Rates and fees for non-utility services, penalties, taxes and licenses
33.04   Acting as claimant agent
Purchasing Procedure
33.15   Ethics
33.16   Informal purchasing and bidding procedures
33.17   Formal bidding procedures
33.18   Sole source purchasing
33.19   Emergency purchases
33.20   Filing of protest
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The Personnel Handbook is hereby created and adopted.
(Prior Code, § 2.24.010) (Ord. 05-06, passed 10-20-2005)
§ 33.02 FRAUDULENT CHECKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in his or her own name or in any other
capacity whatsoever, to obtain money or other property of any kind or nature
whatever with fraudulent intent, or to obtain credit with like intent, by means
of a check, draft or order of which the person is the maker or drawer, or
which, though he or she is not the maker or drawer, he or she, with like
intent, utters or delivers or aids or abets another to utter or deliver, or to
attempt to do so. If the check, draft or order is not paid by the drawee, the
person making, drawing or uttering the same shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
The fact that the check, draft or order was not paid by the drawee because the
maker or drawer did not have on deposit with the bank, person, firm or
corporation upon which the draft, check or order was drawn, sufficient funds to
pay the same in full when presented, and the further fact that the maker or
drawer of the check, draft or order failed to pay the amount of the same within
seven days after written notice sent to his or her last known address, shall,
as against the maker or drawer of the check, draft or order, be prima facie
evidence of fraudulent intent. The word CREDIT, as used in this section, shall
be construed to mean securing further advances of money or goods by means of a
check, draft or order given in whole or in part payment of a then existing
account.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-20-2008) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.03 RATES AND FEES FOR NON-UTILITY SERVICES, PENALTIES, TAXES AND LICENSES.
   The Council shall, from time to time, review, adjust and implement rates and
fees for returned checks, public faxes and copies, any deposits and rental of
town facilities as well as to set forth any fees for applications to Planning
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals, by way of resolution. Furthermore, the
Council shall set forth and approve all rules and conditions governing the
rental of town facilities and use of town equipment, by way of resolution.
(Res. 05-17, passed 10-2-2005; Ord. 05-07, passed 10-20-2005)
§ 33.04 ACTING AS CLAIMANT AGENT.
   (A)   The town authorizes the Town Administrator to enter into an agreement
with the Municipal Association of South Carolina for the collection of debt
owed the town.
   (B)   The town indemnifies the Municipal Association of South Carolina to
the extent permitted by law against any injuries, actions, liabilities or
proceedings arising from performance under the setoff debt provisions.
(Res. 05-19, passed 10-20-2005)
PURCHASING PROCEDURE
§ 33.15 ETHICS.
   (A)   Financial interest. Any purchase order or contract within the purview
of this subchapter in which any agent, officer or employee of the town is
financially interested, directly or indirectly, shall be void, except that
before the execution of a purchase order or contract, the Council shall have
the authority to waive compliance with this section when it finds the action to
be in the best interests of the town.
   (B)   Rebates, gifts, gratuities, kickbacks.
      (1)   Every officer and employee of the town is prohibited from accepting
directly or indirectly from any person, company, firm or corporation to which
any contract is or might be awarded any rebate, gift, money or anything of
value whatsoever, except where given for the use and benefit of the town or
where accepted with the express consent of Council.
      (2)   No person shall offer, give or agree to give any employee or
officer nor shall any employee or officer solicit, demand, accept or agree to
accept from another person a gratuity, kickback or offer of employment in
connection with any decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation,
preparation or any part of a program requirement or a purchase request,
influencing the content of any specification or purchasing standard.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 11-18-2004) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.16 INFORMAL PURCHASING AND BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purchase orders shall be used for all purchases in excess of $500.
   (B)   When the value of purchases for supplies, services, goods or
construction exceeds $500, a purchase order (PO) shall be used. The PO shall be
signed by the department head certifying that each transaction is appropriate
and ensuring that no abuse or unauthorized use has occurred and submitted to
the Town Administrator for final approval and shall be done by signature on the
PO. No other signature is required on these transactions.
   (C)   When the value of purchases for supplies, services, goods or
construction is estimated to be in excess of $500 and less than $1,500, the
Town Administrator’s signature shall be required on the standard purchase
order.
   (D)   When the value of purchases for supplies, services, goods or
construction is estimated to be in excess of $1,500 and less than $3,000, the
use of formal sealed bidding or competitive sealed proposals are not required.
Three oral or written quotes may be obtained by the department head and given
to the Town Administrator and committee chair. The names of the three vendors
and the solicited quotations shall be listed on the face of the purchase order.
The final decision on the purchases shall be made by the Town Administrator and
committee chair.
   (E)   When the value of purchases for supplies, services or construction is
estimated to be in excess of $3,000 and less than $7,500, purchases shall be
made by obtaining written competitive quotations or bids from vendors unless
the goods or services are available under state contract as awarded by the
State Budget and Control Board, Division of Material Management. All open
market purchases shall be based on at least three quotations. The names of the
vendors and the solicited quotations shall be listed on the face of the
purchase order. The recommended award, along with a copy of the purchase order,
shall be placed on the Town Council meeting agenda for Council consideration.
Council shall have the authority to award or reject the recommended award of
bid.
   (F)   All purchases and contracts and goods or services in excess of $7,500
shall be made in accordance with following competitive formal bidding
procedures, unless the goods or services are available under state contract as
awarded by the State Budget and Control Board, Division of Material Management.
All vendors and their bids shall be listed on the face of the purchase order.
The recommended award, along with a copy of the purchase order, shall be placed
on the Town Council meeting agenda for Council consideration. Council shall
have the authority to award or reject the recommended award of bid.
   (G)   The town may also obtain goods and services from an awarded bidder in
a competitive bidding process utilized within the preceding six months by
another political subdivision of the state for substantially the same goods or
services when the Town Administrator and committee has good reason to believe
that the awarded bidder is the lowest qualified bidder at the time the town
obtains the goods and services.
   (H)   The signature of the Town Administrator shall be required on all
standard purchase orders. In the event of the absence or non-availability of
one of these signers, the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tempore and the Clerk/Treasurer or
Utility Clerk shall be the designated signatures on the purchase orders.
   (I)   Purchase orders shall not be artificially divided, fragmented or
structured so as to constitute a purchase under this section or to circumvent
the requirements or intent of this section.
   (J)   No purchase shall be made until it is determined by the Town
Administrator that the funds are available for the purchase.
   (K)   No vendor shall be used more than one time within a seven-day period.
   (L)   Incomplete purchase orders will not be accepted.
   (M)   All expenditures, except emergency expenditures as determined by the
Town Administrator, shall cease as of June 30 of each fiscal year. All invoices
for all purchases must be submitted to the Clerk by June 30 of each fiscal
year. Department heads will be held accountable for any invoices not submitted
by this date.
   (N)   The Town Administrator may adopt other procedures for:
      (1)   Small purchases such as the use of petty cash;
      (2)   Charge accounts; or
      (3)   Request for payment vouchers.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 33.17 FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Advertising; bidders’ list.
      (1)   A notice inviting bids shall be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation at least five business days preceding the last
day set for the receipt of proposals. The notice shall include a general
description of the goods or services to be purchased, shall state where bid
blanks and specifications may be secured and shall specify the time and place
for opening of bids.
      (2)   (a)   The Town Administrator shall, in conjunction with department
heads, develop and update a bidders’ list which shall be limited to commodities
that are similar in character.
         (b)   All responsible, interested suppliers may be added to the
bidders’ list at their request.
         (c)   The Town Administrator shall also solicit sealed bids from all
suppliers on the bidders’ list by sending them a copy of the newspaper notice
inviting bids or other notice as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase.
      (3)   In the event that, after advertising as aforesaid, no bids are
received, the Town Administrator shall, with approval of the Council, solicit
bids by mail, telephone, newspaper or by any other reasonable manner to secure
responsible bidders.
   (B)   Bid deposits.
      (1)   When it seems necessary by the Town Administrator, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. The amount of the
deposits shall be 5% of the bids and shall be in the form of a certified check
or bond.
      (2)   Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to the return of surety
required by the Administrator within 30 calendar days after opening of bids.
      (3)   Upon the failure of a successful bidder to enter into a contract
within seven calendar days after the town tenders the proposed contract, the
bidder shall forfeit the bid deposit.
      (4)   Bids received after the bid date and time indicated on the
invitation to bid may not be considered unless the delay was due to an error of
the town.
   (C)   Submission and opening of bids.
      (1)   All bids shall be submitted to the Administrator in a sealed
condition with identification and state license number if applicable contained
on the envelope containing the bid.
      (2)   Bids shall be submitted at the designated place no later than the
time stated in the public notice inviting bids.
      (3)   Bids shall be opened at a public meeting at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (4)   A tabulation of all bids received shall be made available for
public inspection.
   (D)   Award of contract.
      (1)   The Administrator shall notify the successful bidder of the award
made by the Town Council.
      (2)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In
determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition to price, the
Administrator and the Committee shall consider such factors as:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to provide the
services required;
         (b)   The capability of the bidder to perform and the contractor to
provide the services promptly or within the time specified without delay or
interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the services;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the suppliers or
contractual services to the particular use required; and
         (h)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid by the
bidder, if any.
      (3)   When the award is not made to the lowest bidder, a full and
complete statement of the reasons for the action shall be prepared by the
Administrator and filed with the other documents relating to the transaction.
      (4)   If all bids received are for the same total amount or unit price,
quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to a bidder
whose principal place of business is within the town, or if not within the
town, within the county, if not within the county, then within the state and to
the discretion of Council.
      (5)   If no bids are received, quotations may be solicited by the Town
Administrator in the manner set forth in §
33.18.
      (6)   The Town Council may reject any or all bids, in whole or in part,
in order to protect any public interest.
   (E)   Bonds.
      (1)   To protect the interest of the town, the successful bidder for a
contract for conservation, improvements or repair shall be required to furnish
a performance bond and a payment bond in the amount of 100% on the proposed
contract if deemed necessary by the Town Administrator.
      (2)   If the bonds are not provided within ten calendar days of the award
of the bid, the award shall be void and shall be awarded to the next lowest
bidder.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 33.18 SOLE SOURCE PURCHASING.
   (A)   (1)   A contract may be awarded for supplies, services, professional
services or construction without formal competitive bidding or other
competitive purchasing in accordance with this subchapter. A contract may be
awarded under this section only when the Town Administrator determines, in
writing, that there is only one source for the required purchasing or
construction or when there is only one source which is compatible with existing
equipment, software or things of this nature. A sole source purchase may not be
made if a reasonable alternative solution exists. The written determination
must include findings which support the determination that only one source
exists.
      (2)   The authority to make the determination and findings required by
this division (A) shall not be delegated.
   (B)   The using department shall submit written evidence to support a sole
source determination. The Town Administrator may also require the submission of
cost or pricing data in connection with an award under this section.
   (C)   The department head or Town Administrator shall negotiate with the
single supplier, to the extent practicable, to obtain the most advantageous
contract to the town.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 33.19 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In the case of an emergency which threatens the public health, safety and
welfare of the town, the Administrator, subject to the approval of at least
three Council persons by communication in whatever means are available to the
Administrator, shall have the authority to suspend the formal competitive
bidding procedures herein described to the extent required to meet the
emergency. Where possible, the approval shall be in writing. If this is not
possible due to the nature of the emergency, the Town Administrator may
authorize purchase without the necessary approval of Council.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 33.20 FILING OF PROTEST.
   (A)   An interested party may protest the award of a bid, the proposed award
of a bid, or a solicitation for supplies, services, professional services or
construction by filing with the Town Administrator, within ten days of the
award of the bid or contract, the following information in writing:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the protester;
      (2)   Signature of the protester or the protester’s representative;
      (3)   Identification of the bid under protest;
      (4)   A detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds of the
protest, including copies of relevant documents; and
      (5)   The form of relief requested.
   (B)   The protest shall be placed on the agenda for Council consideration at
the next Council meeting scheduled after the protest is received.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 11-18-2004)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Sanctions. Council may impose the following sanctions of any
employee for violations of §§
33.15 through
33.20:
         (a)   Oral or written reprimand;
         (b)   Suspension; or
         (c)   Termination.
      (2)   Penalties. The value of anything transferred or received, per §
33.15, in breach of §§
33.15 through
33.20 by an employee or officer be recovered from either:
         (a)   A person who contracts for or purchases supplies, equipment,
services, professional services or construction in a manner the person knows to
be contrary to the requirements of §§
33.15 through
33.20 is liable for all costs and damages to the town arising out of the
violation.
         (b)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of §§
33.15 through
33.20 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefore,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned for a period
not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 11-18-2004)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
34.01   Police Department
34.02   Planning Commission
§ 34.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town adopts a newly revised Police Department policies and
training manual affecting employees of the Police Department of the town.
   (B)   Policy composed of Police Department Policies and Training Manual,
Sections I through VI as shown in the document attached to the ordinance
codified in this section, consisting of 27 pages, the same document pages are
made an official part of this section. Official copies of this policy shall be
filed in the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection.
   (C)   The policies adopted by divisions (A) and (B) above or as they may be
amended by Town Council, constitute the official rules affecting persons now
employed or to be hereafter employed by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.010) (Ord. 88-04, passed - -)
§ 34.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Planning Commission created. In order to guide and accomplish a
coordinated and harmonious development within the town which will, in
accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health,
safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well
as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Town Planning
Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Planning Commissions, is created and
established as authorized by S.C. Code §§ 6-7-10, 6-7-20, 6-7-210 through 6-7-
1280, as amended, and that the Planning Commission shall be organized,
empowered and governed by the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.010)
   (B)   Membership, terms, vacancies and compensation. The Planning Commission
shall consist of five members to be appointed by the Town Council; provided,
however, that, one member shall be appointed by each of the Town Council
members. All appointees must be resident electors of the town. All appointees
must be approved by full Council. The terms of office of the members shall be
for four years, except that of the five members first appointed, one shall be
appointed for a term of one year, one for two years, one for three years, and
two for four years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired
term by the Town Council which shall also have the authority to remove any
member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall
serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred
in connection with their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.020)
   (C)   Organization, meetings, rules, staff and finances. The Planning
Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among its
members. The terms of the Chairperson and other officers shall be one year with
eligibility for reelection. It shall appoint a Secretary who may be an officer
or an employee of the Town Council or of the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its recommendations, transactions, findings and determinations; and
shall meet at the call of the Chairperson and at such times as the Chairperson
or Commission may determine. All meetings of the Planning Commission at which
official action is taken shall be considered public record. The Commission may
appoint employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may make
expenditures for salaries of any employees and staff, contracts with
consultants and for the purchase of required equipment and supplies. The
expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts
appropriated for the purpose by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.030)
   (D)   General powers, duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   From and after the time when the Planning Commission shall have
organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of
procedure, then the Commission shall have all the powers, duties,
responsibilities and jurisdiction set forth in S.C. Code §§ 6-7-10, 6-7-20, 6-
7-210 through 6-7-1280, as amended.
      (2)   In general, the Planning Commission shall have the power to:
         (a)   Prepare and revise periodically a comprehensive plan and program
for the development of its jurisdiction;
         (b)   Prepare and recommend for adoption to the appropriate governing
authority or authorities as a means for implementing the plan and program:
            1.   Zoning ordinances or resolutions and maps and appropriate
revisions thereof for its jurisdiction;
            2.   Regulations for the subdivision of land and appropriate
revisions thereof within its jurisdiction and to administer the regulations
that may be adopted;
            3.   An official map and appropriate revision thereof showing the
exact location of existing or proposed public streets, highways and utility
rights-of-way and public building sites, together with regulations to control
the erection of buildings or other structures or changes in land use within the
rights-of-way, building sites or open spaces within its jurisdiction or a
specified portion thereof; and
            4.   A capital improvements program for its jurisdiction based on
the comprehensive plan and the capital improvements necessary to implement the
plan. A capital improvement program shall include an annual capital budget
based on estimates of the cost of proposed projects and the means of financing
them. The Commission shall submit the capital program, including the capital
budget, to the governing authority or authorities as directed.
         (c)   Establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
         (d)   Prepare and recommend to the Town Council for adoption
regulations, other than those previously mentioned, promoting orderly
development in accordance with the comprehensive plan;
         (e)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the Comprehensive Plan for the growth and
improvement of the area;
         (f)   Review and recommend to the Town Council any needed changes in
the zoning regulations and/or zoning maps as well as the subdivision
regulations, the official map and other codes, ordinances and controls related
to the county’s development; and
         (g)   Keep the Town Council and the general public informed and
advised as to these matters.
(Ord. 92-07, passed - -)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURTS
Section
35.01   Establishment of Municipal Court
35.02   Issuance of warrants, trials, convictions, fines and penalties and the
like
35.03   Attendance by Chief of Police
35.04   Powers of Municipal Judge regarding conduct of Court
35.05   Municipal Judge’s enforcement of attendance in Court
35.06   Power of Municipal Judge to punish anyone upsetting order of Court
35.07   Duty of police to arrest all persons guilty of disorderly conduct in
Police Court
35.08   Punishment for neglect or refusal to obey summons of Court
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   A Municipal Court is hereby established for the town. A Municipal Judge
shall be appointed by the Town Council to serve for a term set by the Council
not to exceed four years and until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. The compensation of the Municipal Judge shall be fixed by the Town
Council. Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his or her office,
the Municipal Judge shall take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by
Article VI, § 5, of the State Constitution. Vacancies and temporary absences in
the office of Municipal Judge shall be filled in the manner prescribed by S.C.
Code § 14-25-25. The powers, duties and jurisdictions of the Municipal Court
shall be as set out in S.C. Code §§ 14-25-45, 14-25-65 and 14-25-75. The Town
Council shall appoint a Clerk of the Municipal Court as required by S.C. Code
§§ 14-25-5 and 14-25-35.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 35.02 ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS, TRIALS, CONVICTIONS, FINES AND PENALTIES AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   The provisions of the criminal statutes of the state applicable and
pertaining to misdemeanors, all as set out in the S.C. Code Title 16, are
adopted and ordained as the laws governing misdemeanors and the trials thereof
in the town, along with all terms and definitions therein set out.
   (B)   The Criminal Code of the state, as to misdemeanors, shall be known and
cited as the criminal code of the town, and may be supplemented by additional
ordinances as the town may from time to time deem necessary.
   (C)   The Municipal Court of the town may try and determine criminal cases
involving violations of the provisions of the Criminal Code of the state, as
hereinabove set out, occurring within the limits of the town when the penalty
prescribed by state law for the violations does not exceed 30 days imprisonment
and/or a $500 fine. The Municipal Court may have trial jurisdiction over the
criminal cases the same as magistrates.
   (D)   The adoption of the Criminal Code of the state, as to misdemeanors,
shall not in any wise affect the administrative ordinances or resolutions of
the Town Council in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 35.03 ATTENDANCE BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or someone designated by him or
her to be in constant attendance on the Municipal Court and to take proper
measures for carrying into effect the orders of the Court, and to execute all
processes issued by the Court. The Chief of Police and police officers shall
exercise the duties prescribed by S.C. Code § 14-25-55 and shall also be
invested with the same powers and duties as are provided for magistrates’
constables.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.030)
§ 35.04 POWERS OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE REGARDING CONDUCT OF COURT.
   The Municipal Judge shall have power to make rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with the laws of the land, for the conducting of business of the
court, as may be necessary for the dispatch of the same, the preservation of
order and the furtherance of public justice.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.040) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 35.05 MUNICIPAL JUDGE’S ENFORCEMENT OF ATTENDANCE IN COURT.
   The Municipal Judge shall and may by compulsory process enforce the
attendance of persons charged with a violation of the ordinances of the town
and shall likewise enforce the attendance of witnesses who may be required to
give testimony before the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.050) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 35.06 POWER OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE TO PUNISH ANYONE UPSETTING ORDER OF COURT.
   The Municipal Judge shall and may punish, for contempt, all persons who may,
in the presence of the court, be guilty of any riotous or disorderly conduct,
and who may, in any manner, interrupt the proceedings of the court.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.060) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 35.07 DUTY OF POLICE TO ARREST ALL PERSONS GUILTY OF DISORDERLY CONDUCT IN
POLICE COURT.
   It shall be the duty of the police to arrest and commit to the jail all
persons guilty of riotous or disorderly conduct, or who may, in any manner,
interrupt the proceedings of the Municipal Court, to be dealt with according to
law, and every person so offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.070) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 35.08 PUNISHMENT FOR NEGLECT OR REFUSAL TO OBEY SUMMONS OF COURT.
   The neglect or refusal to obey the summons of the court, or any lawful order
made by it as here authorized, shall be punishable as now authorized by law for
the violation of the orders and decrees of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.080)
CHAPTER 36: REVENUE AND FINANCE
Section
Taxes
36.01   Fiscal year
36.02   Budget required
36.03   Audit required
36.04   Levy of property tax
36.05   Basis of assessments
36.06   Due date of taxes
36.07   Collection
36.08   Budget administration
Delinquent Motor Vehicle Taxes
36.20   Requirements
36.99   Penalty
TAXES
§ 36.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the town shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on
June 30 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.02 BUDGET REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Mayor shall prepare and maintain annual budgets which provide for
sufficient revenue to meet estimated expenses for each year.
   (B)   Whenever it shall happen that the ordinary expenses of the town for
any year shall exceed the income of the town, the Council shall provide for
levying a tax in the ensuing year sufficient, with other sources of income, to
pay the deficiency of the preceding year together with the estimated expenses
for the ensuing year.
   (C)   The budget ordinance, detailing revenue, to include the property tax
levy, and expense for each fiscal year, is adopted by reference and made a part
of this code as fully as if set forth herein verbatim.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.03 AUDIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all
financial records and transactions of the town and any agency funded in whole
or in part by municipal funds.
   (B)   The Council shall designate the accountant to conduct the audit no
later than 30 days after the beginning of the fiscal year for which the audit
is being conducted. The accountant shall not have personal interest, direct or
indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the town or any of its officers.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.030) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.04 LEVY OF PROPERTY TAX.
   The Council shall impose, by ordinance, an annual tax on all real estate
lying within the corporate limits and on all personal property within the
corporate limits, except such as is exempt from taxation under the constitution
and laws of the state, as will yield an amount necessary for the general fund
operating purposes and for debt service requirements of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.040) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.05 BASIS OF ASSESSMENTS.
   The amount of tax levied by the Council on property within the corporate
limits as assessed for taxation for state and county purposes, shall be levied
upon the assessed value of the property as based upon the return and assessment
for the current year in the office of the County Auditor for the purpose of
levying state and county taxes for the current year.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.050) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.06 DUE DATE OF TAXES.
   (A)   All taxes for the year shall be due and payable between October 1 and
the following January 15 after assessments in each and every year.
   (B)   January 18, penalty of 3% added; February 2, penalty of additional 10%
added; March 16, penalty of additional 15%; April 18, taxes in execution; June
1, taxpayer notified by certified mail; October 7, property sold at public
auction.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.060) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.07 COLLECTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of collecting taxes and penalties, the Council may
enforce payment against the property of defaulters to the same extent and
substantially in the same manner, as is provided by law for the collection of
state and county taxes and penalties, except that executions to enforce the
payment of taxes and penalties shall be issued under the seal of the
corporation by the Clerk/Treasurer thereof and directed to the Chief of Police
or any other officer designated by the Council for that purpose or by contract
with the county.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, Clerk/Treasurer and other properly designated
officers are invested with all the rights, powers and privileges, and they are
charged with all the duties of the officers designated for the collection of
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.070) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.08 BUDGET ADMINISTRATION.
   The Mayor and Council shall administer the budget and may authorize the
transfer of appropriated funds within and between departments as necessary to
achieve the goals of the budget.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.080)
DELINQUENT MOTOR VEHICLE TAXES
§ 36.20 REQUIREMENTS.
   Personal property taxes assessed against any motor vehicle owned by any
resident of the town shall be delinquent when same are past due and unpaid and
have gone into execution as provided for by the county or by state law.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
36.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $500
and/or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.030)
(Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
   
51.   WATER SYSTEM
   
52.   SEWERAGE SYSTEM
   
53.   CABLE TELEVISION
   
54.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
50.01   Combined utility system; composition
50.02   Combined utility system; fiscal year; operation under town
50.03   Water and sewer connections required
50.04   Application to tap water and sewer lines
50.05   Illegal use of water
50.06   Right of Public Works to turn off water; liability for water supply
50.07   Free service prohibited
50.08   Individual contracts for certain users permitted under certain
conditions
50.09   Meters required; exceptions
50.10   Monthly bills
50.11   Disconection for late payment
50.12   Liability of landlords and agents
50.13   Water, sewer and garbage utility service rules and regulations
§ 50.01 COMBINED UTILITY SYSTEM; COMPOSITION.
   The waterworks system and the sewer system, together with all improvements,
extensions and betterments thereto, are combined into one system, to be known
as the combined utility system of the town, known as the “Town of Calhoun Falls
Public Works”.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.02 COMBINED UTILITY SYSTEM; FISCAL YEAR; OPERATION UNDER TOWN.
   The combined utility system shall be operated on a fiscal year basis
commencing on July 1 in each year and ending on June 30 of the following year
and shall be operated by the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.03 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person owning a building, whether commercial or residential,
within the town shall install water and sewer connections or taps within 90
days after the property owned by the person becomes accessible to the town
water and sewer lines and all outdoor privies on the premises shall be removed
by the owners thereof after the connection with the water and sewer lines.
   (B)   Where any property owner has previously installed a private septic
tank according to specification, he or she may continue to use the same upon
approval of the Town Health Officer, but whenever any septic tank fails to meet
the requirements of the Town Health Officer, the same shall be condemned and no
repairs thereof shall be permitted if a sewer line is available for connection
thereto, and the owner shall be required to connect to the sewer line within
the time aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.030) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.04 APPLICATION TO TAP WATER AND SEWER LINES.
   (A)   Every application to tap the water or sewer main lines, whether within
or without the town, shall be made by the owner of the property to be
benefitted, or by his or her authorized agent, on a form prescribed by the
Commission of Public Works.
   (B)   Application shall be granted only upon the condition that the owner of
the property, in his or her application, will agree to pay in advance the
standard fees for water and sewer service and, upon failure to so pay, the
premises may be disconnected from the water or sewer lines.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.040) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.05 ILLEGAL USE OF WATER.
   (A)   (1)   Should any person use the town water or sewer without the
knowledge and consent of the Commission of Public Works, and it shall come to
the knowledge of the Commission that the services have been so illegally used,
a bill shall be made against the consumer for the services used.
      (2)   If, upon presentation of the bill, the consumer refuses to pay for
the water or sewer so illegally used, then it shall be the duty of the Director
of Public Works to cut-off or have cut-off the water or sewer, or both, from
the premises, and prefer charges against the illegal use of the service, before
the Municipal Judge.
      (3)   The person, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this
code and shall be liable for the payment of the bill against him or her for the
water or sewer so used, by any process or procedure that may be applicable and
adequate for the enforcement of the payment of the same; and, further, the
water or sewer connection shall be cut-off and discontinued until the bill for
the water or sewer is paid in full, with all costs incident thereto.
   (B)   No person, by the use of a false key or otherwise, shall turn the
water or sewer back on after services have been cut-off from the premises to be
supplied, except under orders from the Commission of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.050) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 RIGHT OF PUBLIC WORKS TO TURN OFF WATER; LIABILITY FOR WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or his or her proper agents may stop the
supply of water in case of emergency and shut it off for repairs or extension,
they being the sole judges of the time and the necessity therefor, reasonable
notice being given when practicable.
   (B)   Neither Public Works nor the town shall be liable for any insufficient
supply of water by the town at any time.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.060) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.07 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No service of any sort, water or sewer, shall be rendered free of charge to
any person.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.070) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.08 INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTS FOR CERTAIN USERS PERMITTED UNDER CERTAIN
CONDITIONS.
   Individual contracts may be made with large consumers of water or sewer with
rates and charges as shall be mutually agreed upon; provided, however, that, no
preferential rates shall be given to users of the same class.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.080) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.09 METERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   All water service shall be furnished upon a metered basis, except as to
public and private hydrants and automatic sprinkler systems, which shall be
upon a flat rate or rental basis if unmetered, and a separate meter shall be
installed for each dwelling, business establishment or property served with
water.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.090) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.10 MONTHLY BILLS.
   All meters shall be read and bills rendered monthly and all bills shall be
due and payable monthly at the office of the Commission of Public Works, during
the regular hours of business.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.100) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.11 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before this date, services will
be disconnected on the fifth of the month.
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $30. After hours reconnection will cost an additional $50.
(Ord. - -, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 50.12 LIABILITY OF LANDLORDS AND AGENTS.
   Landlords and agents controlling and renting property for domestic use or
rooms for lodging purposes or offices shall be liable for water consumption and
rents and shall, in every case, give the Commission of Public Works written
notice of the removal of the tenant or the discontinued use of water and shall
continue to be so liable until the notice is given of the discontinuance of the
water consumption and rents as much as is actually used.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.120) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 50.13 WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE UTILITY SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All water, sewer and garbage rates must comply with rate schedules as
adopted by Town Council.
   (B)   All rates are subject to established user fees (i.e., calculation of
usage set by approved engineering standards to rate usage relative to
comparable number of residential units as required by EPA, HUD, FHA or other
funding agreements) accepted by the Town Council.
   (C)   Each commercial or residential unit shall be metered individually. For
existing multi-unit residential or commercial customers on one meter, the
minimum for each service will be charged for each unit whether occupied, in use
or not. The multiple minimum will not affect the water rate schedule or
increase volume provided for by the minimum (i.e., one unit or ten units would
be calculated according to the rate schedule without the increased usage being
added with the minimum).
   (D)   Each utility customer in town will be required (mandatory) to pay
either residential or commercial garbage fees as established by the Town
Council, except any customers that have an approved licensed garbage service
firm providing bins or other services not available through the town. These
exceptions must be approved in advance by Town Council.
   (E)   Utility payments are prorated against all charges. Customers cannot
pay for just one service or elect not to pay for any one service. For example,
if a customer elects not to pay for sewer or garbage and makes payment on
water, his or her payment is prorated against all charges and will leave an
unpaid balance on all charges.
   (F)   All utility accounts not paid in full by the fifth of the month
following billing will be assessed an additional $10 penalty described as a
cut-off/cut-on fee. This fee is automatic and has no relation to the service
actually being cut-on or cut-off. For example, if the customer paid the
delinquent utility bill on August 6, the fee would be included in his, her or
their bill even though the service had not been disconnected. This prevents the
utility worker from being in the process of discontinuing service and a person
paying and then not wanting to pay the $10 penalty. All accounts not paid by
the fifth of the following month will be subject to disconnection.
   (G)   Partial payments will be accepted on utility bills. Partial payments
will be discouraged. Also, accounts not paid in full will be subject to late
charges and penalties and/or disconnection of service.
   (H)   Tampering with water meters shall be subject to fines and prosecution
in accordance with S.C. Code § 16-13-385. In an effort to prevent this, the
town will install wire meter tags on all operating meters and will lock all
disconnected meters.
   (I)   Garbage service does not include hauling of contracted service debris,
such as from construction sites or other contracted services, unless provided
for in accordance with
Chapter 110 of this code (the town’s business license ordinance).
   (J)   Garbage service for multiple church buildings on the same site or
adjacent site excluding the parsonage shall be charged only one garbage fee at
the residential rate. Churches are charged residential utility rates.
   (K)   Usage adjustments may only be approved by majority of the Town
Council. Usage errors or usage problems relative to the meter or meter
connection shall be adjusted by averaging the previous three-month consumption
of the customer. The customer will pay based on this average, rather than the
actual reading, if due to error or problem of the town.
   (L)   Extensions of utility service, water or sewer are not allowed outside
of town limits unless specifically authorized by the Town Council.
   (M)   Advance utility payments will be received, thus giving customers a
credit balance. Credit balances do not earn interest, but will be considered as
held in escrow until future billings remove this credit balance.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.130) (Ord. 88-05, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
51.01   Town to supply water; exceptions
51.02   Installation and protection of meter
51.03   Right of entry for inspections and reading meters
51.04   Repair of water lines
51.05   Cut-offs made at meter
51.06   Liability for cut-offs
51.07   Meters on vacated houses
51.08   Permit required for excavations; damage to water and sewer lines
51.09   Mobile home parks
51.10   Check valve or back flow preventor required
Rates and Charges
51.25   General; combined rates
51.26   Meter charges; minimum fee
51.27   Sprinklers
51.28   Service charge
51.29   Water tap charge
51.30   Rates for defective meters
51.31   Bills; application of deposit to arrears
51.32   Penalty for late payment; termination of service; reconnection
51.33   Mobile home parks
Unlawful Acts
51.45   Obstructions and interference prohibited
51.46   Use of water without a contract
51.47   Tapping water main without permit
51.48   Pollution of water
51.49   Unauthorized use of water
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TOWN TO SUPPLY WATER; EXCEPTIONS.
   The town will furnish water to residential, commercial and industrial users
within the town limits through main lines owned by the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.010) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.02 INSTALLATION AND PROTECTION OF METER.
   (A)   Before any meter is installed or water is turned on, an application
agreement must be signed and tap fee and deposit (if applicable) must be paid.
   (B)   The owner or occupant shall protect the meter from injury and shall be
liable for loss of or damage to the meter.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.020) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS AND READING METERS.
   Employees of the town shall have the right, at all reasonable hours of the
day, to have access to water pipes and meters on the premises of the customers
for the purpose of examining, repairing, reading, disconnecting, or replacing
meters or water lines.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.030) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -; Ord. - -, passed 4-24-2024)
§ 51.04 REPAIR OF WATER LINES.
   (A)   Owners or occupants shall be obligated to and liable for the expense
of all repairs, replacements and relocations necessary to water lines from the
meter to the house or building. When a leak occurs between the meter and the
house or building served, the leak shall be immediately repaired by the owner
or occupant at his or her expense.
   (B)   The owner or occupant shall be charged for all water metered, whether
used or wasted. However, should it be established that the owner or occupant
had no reasonable way of knowing of a leak, a negotiated settlement of the bill
shall be reached.
   (C)   The town shall repair any leak occurring between the meter and the
main.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.040) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.05 CUT-OFFS MADE AT METER.
   All cut-offs at the meter must be made by a town employee, except in an
emergency occurring during hours when town employees are off duty.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.050) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.06 LIABILITY FOR CUT-OFFS.
   The town shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of
water for any cause.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.060) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.07 METERS ON VACATED HOUSES.
   When a house is vacated, the meter must be read and may be removed by a town
employee. The owner of any vacant house who requests that the meter be left
intact shall be liable for no less than the minimum fee per month.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.070) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.08 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EXCAVATIONS; DAMAGE TO WATER AND SEWER LINES.
   (A)   A property owner shall obtain a permit from the Town Clerk/Treasurer
prior to any excavation or earth-moving project on his or her property.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall advise the applicant of the location of any
water and sewer lines on his or her property at the time a permit is issued. In
the event water or sewer lines are broken as a result of the excavation, the
property owner shall be held liable for repairs or replacements to the water or
sewer system.
   (C)   Any other person who is permitted to use the rights-of-way upon which
water and sewer lines are situated shall be liable for any and all expenses
incurred for repairs or replacement of any water and sewer lines which may be
damaged or destroyed as a result of his or her use of the right-of-way for any
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.080) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.09 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   The town shall run adequate water and sewer lines, where the lines are
economically feasible, to the property upon which a mobile home park shall be
operated. The owner shall continue the lines throughout the park, in a manner
and of sufficient size, as shall be approved by Town Council.
   (B)   There shall be one meter installed at each mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.090) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.10 CHECK VALVE OR BACK FLOW PREVENTOR REQUIRED.
   Any person who has a contract, agreement, license or permission, oral or
written, with or from the town for the use of water furnished by the town shall
install or have installed a check valve or back flow preventor between the
water meter and house supply. Town service pressure is susceptible to vary at
times. The purpose of this device is to protect home appliances, as well as
prevent contamination of the town water supply.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.100) (Ord. 90-06, passed - -)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.25 GENERAL; COMBINED RATES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise indicated, the fees and charges described in this
subchapter shall be in accordance with the schedule established from time to
time by the Town Council.
   (B)   There shall be no wholesale rates and no discounts.
   (C)   Water and sewer rates are combined and apply to all customers.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.110) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -; Ord. 05-05, passed 11-20-
2008)
§ 51.26 METER CHARGES; MINIMUM FEE.
   The word USER shall be interpreted to mean any family or business furnished
water for any purpose by the town through its water lines. Each user will be
charged a minimum rate for 2,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.120) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.27 SPRINKLERS.
   In addition to metered water usage, sprinklered buildings will be charged a
monthly fee per head. Owners of sprinklered buildings must submit a declaration
to the Town Clerk/Treasurer, stating the number of sprinkler heads located in
the building.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.130) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.28 SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   A service charge for water use shall be required from all water users.
   (B)   Any change in billing from owner to renter will require a service
charge from each renter and each renter’s usage must be metered.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.140) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.29 WATER TAP CHARGE.
   (A)   A tap fee shall be charged for each new water connection within the
town limits.
   (B)   New taps outside the town limits shall be made only by authority of
Council and tap fees shall be with the schedule established from time to time
by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.150) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.30 RATES FOR DEFECTIVE METERS.
   In the event a water meter becomes defective, the customer shall be charged
an amount equal to the average meter usage for the three previous months.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.160) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.31 BILLS; APPLICATION OF DEPOSIT TO ARREARS.
   Bills shall be rendered for the preceding month and shall be due on the
twentieth of the following month.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.170) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.32 PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT; TERMINATION OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Water bills not paid by the due date shall be subject to a $10 penalty
if paid by the fifth of the following month.
   (B)   If the bill is not paid by the fifth day of the month, a late charge
shall be assessed by the town and the town shall terminate service and remove
the meter.
   (C)   Before water service is reconnected, the bill must be paid in full, to
include penalty.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.180) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 51.33 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Each mobile home owner shall apply for water service, making the
required fee, and shall be billed monthly for his, her or their water and sewer
usage.
   (B)   On the basis of the meter reading, the owner of the park shall be
billed for any usage above the multiple of the minimum charge times the number
of units in use in the park for that particular month.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.190) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
UNLAWFUL ACTS
§ 51.45 OBSTRUCTIONS AND INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, damage, injure or, in any
way, tamper or interfere with any pipe, ditch, drain, filter, bed, fire
hydrant, public drinking fountain or any other appurtenances of the sewerage,
drainage or water system of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.200) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.46 USE OF WATER WITHOUT A CONTRACT.
   Any person who has no contract, agreement, license or permission with or
from the town for the use of water furnished by the town, who shall willfully
withdraw or cause to be withdrawn and appropriate water from the mains or pipes
of the town or any pipes connected therewith, for his or her own use or for the
use of any other person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.210) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.47 TAPPING WATER MAIN WITHOUT PERMIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to extend service pipes attached to the mains
and water supply on any premises within the town limits without first obtaining
written permission from the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.220) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.48 POLLUTION OF WATER.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any manner, to pollute the water supply of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.230) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.49 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER.
   (A)   Any person who has a contract, agreement, license or permission, oral
or written, with or from the town for the use of water furnished by the town,
who shall willfully and intentionally withdraw or cause to be withdrawn water
and appropriate it to his or her own use or to the use of any other person, for
purposes other than those specified, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person to whom water is furnished by means of a meter, who shall
willfully, with intent to cheat and defraud the town, alter or interfere with
the meter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall have his or
her water service immediately terminated, without notice.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.240) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
52.01   Definitions
52.02   Duty to connect to public sewer
52.03   Duty to connect to public sewer; exception
52.04   Septic tanks
52.05   Fixtures required
52.06   Notice to comply
52.07   Compliance prerequisite to occupation or use of premises
52.08   Application of chapter; exception
52.09   Disposal of human waste
52.10   Building sewer requirements
Connection to and Use of Sewer System
52.25   Procedure for connecting to sewer
52.26   Persons authorized to tap into public sewer
52.27   Separate connections
52.28   Expense of making connections
52.29   Connection of air-conditioning
52.30   Installation, inspection and approval
52.31   Maintenance
52.32   Compliance; removal and replacement
52.33   Injury, obstruction prohibited
52.34   Unaccepted waste
52.35   Deposit in manholes prohibited
52.36   Exhaust prohibited
52.37   Open gutters, cesspools and the like
52.38   Responsibility of occupants and owners of premises
52.39   Discontinuance of service
Building Inspector
52.50   Duties generally
52.51   Condemnation of unsanitary work
52.52   Right of entry; excavations
52.53   Fees
52.54   Interference with Building Inspector prohibited
52.55   Location of “Y”s used in connection with main
52.56   Discretion
Collection and Treatment of Domestic and Industrial Wastewater
52.70   Prohibited use of public sewers
52.71   Control of prohibited wastes
52.72   Permissive use of public sewers for industrial waste
52.73   Industrial discharge permit system
52.74   Maximum restrictions
52.75   Smoke testing
52.76   Private line abandonment
52.77   Private line repair
52.78   Grease control
 
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not
otherwise defined herein shall be as adopted in the latest edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater (Standard Methods),
published by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, Pub. Law
No. 92-500, also known as the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN (NH3-N). The initial product in the decomposition of
nitrogenous organic matter as measured by using standard laboratory methods, as
set out herein, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standards as published by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in
federal regulations, 40 C.F.R. part 903.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of equivalent oxygen utilized in
the chemical oxidation of organic matter as measured by standard laboratory
methods, as set out herein, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. BOD, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform bacteria,
and additional pollutants as are now or may be in the future specified and
controlled in the town’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
for its wastewater treatment system where the system has been designed and used
to reduce or remove the pollutants.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The designated official of the town or his or her duly
authorized agent or representative.
   DOMESTIC WASTES. Liquid wastes:
      (1)   From the noncommercial preparation, cooking and handling of food;
and/or
      (2)   Containing human excrement and similar matter from the sanitary
conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions.
   EXCESSIVE RADIATION DOSE. A dose of radiation in excess of the maximum
permissible dose.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   IMMEDIATE DISSOLVED OXYGEN DEMAND (IDOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized by
an industrial waste in excess of that normally attributable to sewage as
measured by using standard laboratory methods, as set out herein, expressed in
mg/l.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a “compatible pollutant”,
as defined in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The water-borne wastes resulting from the processes
employed in industrial, manufacturing, trade or business establishments, as
distinct from domestic wastes.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sanitary sewer, including sewer service
connections from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sanitary sewer including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street
washwaters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.
   MAJOR INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industry whose flow entering the town’s
wastewater treatment system exceeds 25,000 gallons per day or who is subject to
pretreatment requirements for removal of incompatible pollutants.
   MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE DOSE. A dose of radiation to any part of the body,
internal or external, or both, that in the light of present knowledge, is not
expected to cause appreciable bodily injury to a person at any time during his
or her life.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from
point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone and the oceans
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, partnership, corporation,
association, group or society, and includes the state, and agencies, districts,
commissions and political subdivisions created by or pursuant to state law.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration, and indicates the degree of acidity or alkalinity of a
substance. A pH of 7.0 is neutral, above 7.0 is alkaline and below 7.0 is acid.
   PRETREATMENT. Application of physical, chemical and/or biological processes
to reduce the amount of pollutants in or alter the nature of the pollutant
properties in a wastewater prior to discharging the wastewater into the
publicly owned wastewater treatment system.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All applicable federal rules and regulations
implementing 33 U.S.C. § 1317, as well as any nonconflicting state or local
standards. In cases of conflicting standards or regulations, the more stringent
shall be applied.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the town. This definition
includes the treatment plants and any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the town who are, by contract or agreement, users of the POTW.
   RECEIVING STREAM. A body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge of waters from the wastewater treatment system.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to receive domestic sewage and industrial
waste, except that of the type expressly prohibited by this chapter, without
the admixture of surface water and storm water.
   STANDARD METHODS. Methods of laboratory analysis as described in most
current editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, American Public Health Association; Methods for Chemical Analysis
of Water and Wastes, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Annual Book of
Standards, American Society for Testing and Materials; or any other published
methods of laboratory analyses which have the approval of the state and federal
regulatory agencies.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm or surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or immediately following any form of
natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL FIXED SOLIDS. The nonvolatile filterable and nonfilterable solids in a
wastewater sample as determined by standard laboratory procedures.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), or
other acts.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water not containing any pollutants limited or prohibited
by the effluent standards in effect, or water whose discharge will not cause
any violation of receiving water quality standards.
   USER. Any person, as heretofore defined, who discharges, causes or permits
the discharge of wastewater into the town’s wastewater treatment system.
   USER CLASSIFICATION. A classification of user based on the 1972 (or
subsequent) edition of the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Manual
prepared by the United States Office of Management and Budget.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid- and water-carried industrial or domestic waste from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the town’s wastewater treatment system.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT (PERMIT). A document issued by the town to a
major industrial user allowing discharge into the town’s wastewater treatment
system, and listing any applicable conditions (e.g., frequency of sampling,
monitoring, pretreatment requirements and the like) to the user’s permission to
discharge.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE SITE. An authorized sewer tap joining a user’s sewer
system to the town’s wastewater treatment system or, alternatively, a
designated discharge site located at the wastewater treatment plant.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. Any devices, facilities, structures, equipment
or works owned or used by the town for the purpose of the transmission,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of industrial and domestic
wastes, or necessary to recycle or reuse water at the most economical cost over
the estimated life of the system, including (but not restricted to)
intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power
and other equipment, and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements,
remodeling additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a
reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well
facilities; and any works, including site acquisition of the land that will be
an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of
residues resulting from the treatment.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.010) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.02 DUTY TO CONNECT TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner of real estate located within the
town, which is used for residential or business purposes or for other purposes
of human habitation and which is located within 300 feet of a public sewer, to
make proper connection to the sewer.
   (B)   The owners of real estate located within 300 feet of any new public
sewer, which may be laid or constructed by the town, shall make proper
connection within a reasonable time or within 90 days after notice to connect
has been issued by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.020) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.03 DUTY TO CONNECT TO PUBLIC SEWER; EXCEPTION.
   If it is shown to the Building Inspector that it is impractical to connect
to the public sewer due to insufficient fall and lack of proper drainage, or
for other good and sufficient cause, the property owner shall not be required
to connect to the public sewer, but shall be required to install a sanitary
septic tank of the type and kind designated in §
52.04.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.030) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.04 SEPTIC TANKS.
   Each owner of real estate located within the town, which is used for
residential or business purposes or for other purposes of human habitation and
which is located beyond 300 feet from a public sewer, shall install a sanitary
septic tank which shall strictly comply with and meet all requirements of the
State Department of Health and Environmental Control.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.040) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.05 FIXTURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   All premises and real estate used for residential or business purposes
or other purposes of human habitation shall be supplied with sufficient and
suitable toilets, urinals, sinks and other proper fixtures which are commonly
used in the disposal of human refuse, soiled water and any other substances
which are commonly carried away in sewers.
   (B)   Sufficient fixtures shall be installed to accommodate the number of
people residing or employed on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.050) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.06 NOTICE TO COMPLY.
   If any person shall fail or neglect to comply strictly with the provisions
of this chapter within the requisite time, the Building Inspector shall give
notice in writing to the owner, his or her agent or tenant, that the defect
must be corrected within the number of days specified in the notice, not to
exceed 15. It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the terms of
the notice.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.060) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 COMPLIANCE PREREQUISITE TO OCCUPATION OR USE OF PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person to use or occupy any premises within the town
for any purpose unless all of the requirements of this chapter are strictly
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.070) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER; EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern all work done and materials used
in installing and maintaining all plumbing in connection with the sanitary
sewerage system of the town, except in emergencies caused by leaking or
bursting water pipes.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.080) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.09 DISPOSAL OF HUMAN WASTE.
   It is unlawful for any person to dispose of human waste in any manner other
than through the public sewer or a private septic tank in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.090) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 BUILDING SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below first floor.
   (B)   No building sewer shall be made parallel to or within three feet of
any load-bearing wall which thereby might be weakened. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from live loads (automobiles and the like)
which may be superimposed. The building sewer shall be made at uniform grade
and in straight alignment insofar as possible. The building sewer shall be
constructed to a point as directed by the Commission.
   (C)   When the lowest floor of a building is at an elevation lower than one
foot above the top of the next upstream manhole in the sewer system, the
building sewer must include back flow preventors or check-values and relief
overflows.
   (D)   Prior to connection to the Commission’s sewer system, the property
owner shall be required to execute a hold harmless agreement with the
Commission, which shall be to the effect that the Commission will not be held
responsible for any damage occurring from connection to the sanitary sewer
system.
   (E)   The agreement shall be made on a form prepared by the attorney for the
Commission and provided to the property owner by the Commission. The hold
harmless agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Clerk of Court for
the county.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.100) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
CONNECTION TO AND USE OF SEWER SYSTEM
§ 52.25 PROCEDURE FOR CONNECTING TO SEWER.
   (A)   Any person, business or corporation desiring to connect to the sewer
line of the town shall make written request to the Town Clerk/Treasurer for
permission to connect an individual line to the main sewer line, prior to
commencing any work. This request shall be on a form available at the Clerk/
Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   All rights-of-way must be obtained by the applicant, at his or her
expense, prior to the start of installation.
   (C)   On advice of the town’s consulting engineer or Public Works Director,
the town shall advise the applicant of the required size, type, location and
specifications, taking into consideration the probable usage of the line in
future development.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.110) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.26 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO TAP INTO PUBLIC SEWER.
   Only licensed plumbers or persons approved by the Town Council, or its duly
authorized agent, shall be permitted to tap into the public sewer line.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.120) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.27 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   Every house or building which fronts on a street and is to be connected with
the public sewer shall be separately connected.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.130) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.28 EXPENSE OF MAKING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The town shall charge a tap fee for sewer connections to the public
sewer.
   (B)   The fee shall cover the cost to make the tap and to repair street
surface.
   (C)   However, when connections with the public sewer are made at a point
which is not at the existing trunk line or other transportation line, all
expenses incident to making the connection and laying the sewer therefrom shall
be upon the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.140) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.29 CONNECTION OF AIR-CONDITIONING.
   Air-conditioning units of three tons or more shall not be connected to the
sanitary sewer system if storm sewer facilities are available. The air-
conditioning units shall be connected by the owner to the town storm drainage
system.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.150) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.30 INSTALLATION, INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   Except as otherwise provided, the installation of all fixtures, all plumbing
work and all connections made to public sewers and the building of all septic
tanks and the drainage therefrom shall be the responsibility of the owner of
the property and shall be under the direct inspection and approval of the
Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.160) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.31 MAINTENANCE.
   All fixtures, plumbing and connections with the public sewer and septic
tanks shall be kept and maintained in a condition and repair so as to prevent
any overflow, seepage or other condition which may be injurious or obnoxious to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.170) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32 COMPLIANCE; REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   All fixtures and work referred to in this chapter shall strictly
comply with all provisions of this code and rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Upon any failure to comply, the Building Inspector shall require the
faulty or insufficient work or material to be removed and replaced with the
requisite materials, workmanship and labor.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.180) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 INJURY, OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall injure, break, remove or obstruct any portion of any
manhole, flush tank or any part of the public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.190) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34 UNACCEPTED WASTE.
   (A)   Only normally accepted wastes shall be discharged into the sanitary
sewer system. The town reserves the right to refuse acceptance into the
sanitary sewer system of any waste deemed undesirable.
   (B)   Under no circumstances shall storm sewer water be turned into the
sanitary sewer line.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit any matter or substance in
house or yard plumbing which is liable to impair the sewers or obstruct the
flow of the sewage.
   (D)   It is unlawful to deposit kitchen refuse, fruit peelings, rags, stiff
paper or like matter in toilets.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.200) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 DEPOSIT IN MANHOLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit any matter in sewer manholes.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.210) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 EXHAUST PROHIBITED.
   No exhaust steam shall be allowed into the public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.220) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 OPEN GUTTERS, CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, either directly or indirectly, connect any open gutter,
cesspool, privy vault or rain water conductors with the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.230) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 RESPONSIBILITY OF OCCUPANTS AND OWNERS OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Occupants and owners of premises connected to the sewer system shall
be held accountable for any abuse of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In all cases where stoppages are caused by abuse of the sewerage
system, the property owners shall defray the expenses of remedying the problem.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.240) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.39 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The town may prevent or discontinue any connection with the public sewers
which discharges any substance liable to injure the sewers or obstruct the flow
of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.250) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 52.50 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall enforce all the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   He or she shall:
      (1)   Issue all permits and notices;
      (2)   Keep a daily record of all notices given, applications received and
permits granted;
      (3)   Inspect all house connections during construction frequently enough
to ensure that all plumbing, drainage and sewerage work is done in accordance
with this chapter;
      (4)   As soon as possible after notification by the plumber, proceed to
inspect completed work, applying the tests as may be from time to time
prescribed and have any defects immediately remedied, under his or her
supervision; and
      (5)   Take any action necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.260) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.51 CONDEMNATION OF UNSANITARY WORK.
   The Building Inspector shall have the power to condemn all unsanitary work
and to order the work to be put in a sanitary condition within a specified
time.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.270) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.52 RIGHT OF ENTRY; EXCAVATIONS.
   The Building Inspector shall have the right, as far as may be necessary to
perform his or her duties under this chapter, to enter and to make excavations
in any premises for the purpose of locating unsanitary plumbing work.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.280) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.53 FEES.
   The Building Inspector shall collect the inspection fees as are provided by
law before first inspections are made.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.290) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.54 INTERFERENCE WITH BUILDING INSPECTOR PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with the Building Inspector in
the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.300) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.55 LOCATION OF “Y”S USED IN CONNECTION WITH MAIN.
   When the Building Inspector completes the final inspection, the plumber
doing the work shall furnish the location of the “Y”s used to connect with the
main sewer to the Building Inspector for his or her records.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.310) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.56 DISCRETION.
   The Building Inspector shall have discretion over all matters pertaining to
sanitary plumbing not covered by this chapter and, further, to authorize
deviations from its provisions which are in accordance with or constitute
improvement in sanitary conditions.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.320) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
COLLECTION AND TREATMENT OF DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER
§ 52.70 PROHIBITED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Prohibitions on wastewater discharges. No person shall discharge,
deposit or cause or allow any waste to be discharged or deposited into the
wastewater treatment system, except at an approved wastewater discharge site.
In addition, no person shall discharge or deposit or cause or allow to be
discharged or deposited into the wastewater treatment system any wastewater
which contains the following:
      (1)   Oils and grease. Total fat, wax, grease or oil (exclusive of
petroleum substances) of concentrations of more than 100 mg/l, whether
emulsified or not, or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between 0° and 65°C at the point of discharge into the
system;
      (2)   Petroleum substances. Viscous, hydrocarbon mixtures such as
gasoline, asphalt waste, lubricating oil and/or grease;
      (3)   Explosive mixtures. Liquids, solids or gases, which, by reason of
their nature or quantity, are, or may be, sufficient, either alone or by
interaction with other substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious
in any other way to the sewerage facilities or to the operation of the system.
At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the
point of discharge into the wastewater treatment system, be more than 5%, nor
any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the explosive
substance. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides
and sulfides;
      (4)   Properly shredded garbage. Garbage that has not been ground or
comminuted to a degree that all particles will be carried freely in suspension
under flow conditions normally prevailing in the sanitary sewers, with no
particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (5)   Noxious material. Noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or gases,
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of
creating a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are or may be sufficient to
prevent entry into a sewer for its maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Radioactive wastes. Radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life
or concentration that they do not comply with regulations or orders issued by
the appropriate authority having control over their use and which will or may
cause damage or hazards to the wastewater treatment system or personnel
operating the system;
      (7)   Solid or viscous wastes. Solid or viscous wastes which will or may
cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer, or otherwise interfere with the
proper operation of the wastewater treatment system. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to, grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, egg shells, spent lime, stone or marble dust,
metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops,
waste paper, wood, plastic, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil and similar substances;
      (8)   Excessive discharge rate. Any wastewater, including oxygen-
demanding pollutants (BOD and the like), released at a flow and/or pollutant
concentration which a user knows or has reason to know will cause interference
to the POTW. In no case shall a slug load have a flow rate that exceeds for any
time period longer than 15 minutes more than one and one-half times the average
seven-day 29-hour flow. Neither shall any wastewater with a concentration or
quantity of pollutants exceed for any time period longer than 15 minutes more
than five times the average seven-day 29-hour concentration or quantity of
pollutants. Periods of wastewater flow, concentration or quantities of four
hours’ duration at less than 75% of the seven-day 29-hour average are
considered excessive by standards of organic and/or hydraulic loading on the
plant;
      (9)   Toxic substances. Any toxic substances in amounts exceeding
standards promulgated by the Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) of the Act, and chemical
elements or compounds, phenols or other taste- or odor-producing substances or
any other substances which are not susceptible to treatment or which may
interfere with the biological processes or efficiency of the wastewater
treatment system or that will pass through the system to the receiving stream,
untreated;
      (10)   Unpolluted waters. Any unpolluted water which does not require
treatment before discharge to the stream which will increase the hydraulic load
on the treatment system;
      (11)   Corrosive wastes. Any waste which will cause corrosion or
deterioration of the treatment system. All wastes discharged to the public
sewer system must have a pH value in the range of 6.0 to 9.0 standard units.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, acids, sulfides,
concentrated chloride and fluoride compounds and substances which will react
with water to form acidic and/or alkaline products;
      (12)   Fibers. Any clothing, rags, textile remnants or waste, cloth,
scraps or fibers; except fibers or scraps that will pass through a one-quarter
inch screen or its equivalent in screening ability. When necessary to protect
the wastewater treatment system, additional screening may be required;
      (13)   Temperature. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
60°C (190°F), but in no case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction
into the POTW treatment plant which exceeds 90°C (190°F);
      (14)   Excessive substances. Any materials which form excessive amounts
of scum or foam that may interfere with the operation of the wastewater
treatment system or any substances that may cause undue additional labor in
connection with its operation; and/or
      (15)   Specific pollutant limitations.
         (a)   The following criteria form the protection limits for the POTW
wastewater treatment plants. No person shall discharge wastewater containing
amounts which would exceed these influent concentrations.
300 mg/l   Suspended solids
300 mg/l   BPD
800 mg/l   COD
5.0 mg/l   Immediate dissolved oxygen demand
15.0 mg/l  Ammonia nitrogen
1.0 mg/l   Antimony
1.0 mg/l   Arsenic
1.0 mg/l   Cadmium
1.0 mg/l   Copper
0.8 mg/l   Cyanide (total)
0.6 mg/l   Lead
0.001 mg/l Mercury
1.0 mg/l   Nickel
1.0 mg/l   Silver
1.0 mg/l   Total chromium
1.0 mg/l   Zinc
9.0 mg/l   Total metals (sum of concentrations of all metals)
1.0 mg/l   Identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons
9.0 mg/l   Phenolic compounds
 
         (b)   The protection criteria establish limits at levels which will
protect the biological activity of the plant, protect the receiving stream by
limiting the total load of pollutants allowed to pass through the plant, and
limit the sludge concentrations for land application.
   (B)   Conditional prohibitions for wastewater discharges. No person shall
discharge or convey, or permit or allow to be discharged or conveyed, to the
wastewater treatment system any wastewater containing pollutants of a character
or quantity that may:
      (1)   Interfere with the process or efficiency of the treatment system,
or not be susceptible to treatment;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to human or animal life or to the stream or
watercourse receiving the treatment plant effluent;
      (3)   Violate pretreatment standards, as promulgated by the state or the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, in 40 C.F.R. part 903 and
subsequent provisions related thereto; or
      (4)   Cause the treatment plant to violate its NPDES permit or applicable
receiving water standards.
   (C)   Prohibitions on extraneous water discharges. No person shall discharge
or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff or subsurface drainage into any sanitary sewer. No person shall connect,
or cause to be connected, to a sanitary sewer any pipe or conduit which will
allow the discharge of the aforelisted inflow source into a sanitary sewer.
   (D)   Special agreements. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the Superintendent and
any user of the wastewater treatment system whereby wastewater of unusual
strength or characteristic is accepted into the system and specially treated
subject to any payments or user charges as may be applicable.
   (E)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation of
the federal categorical pretreatment standard for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed
under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall supersede the
limitations imposed under this chapter. The control authority shall notify all
affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. §
903.12.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.330) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.71 CONTROL OF PROHIBITED WASTES.
   (A)   Regulatory actions. If wastewaters containing any substance described
in §
52.70 are discharged or proposed to be discharged into the wastewater treatment
system of the town or to any wastewater treatment system tributary thereto, the
Town Council may take any action necessary to:
      (1)   Prohibit the discharge of the wastewater;
      (2)   Require a user to demonstrate that in-plant modifications will
reduce or eliminate the discharge of the substances in conformity with this
chapter;
      (3)   Require pretreatment, including storage facilities, and/or flow
equalization necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable
characteristics, and/or substances so that the discharge will not violate this
subchapter;
      (4)   Require the user making, causing or allowing the discharge to pay
any additional cost or expense incurred by the town for handling and treating
excess loads and/or conditions imposed on the treatment system; and
      (5)   Take other remedial action as may be deemed to be desirable or
necessary to achieve the purpose of this subchapter.
   (B)   Submission of plans. Where pretreatment or equalization of wastewater
flows prior to discharge into any part of the wastewater treatment system is
required, plans, specifications and other pertinent data or information
relating to the pretreatment or flow-control facilities shall be submitted to
the State DHEC for review and approval before construction begins. The approval
shall not exempt the discharge of the facilities from compliance with any
applicable code, ordinance, rule, regulation or order of any governmental
authority. Any subsequent alterations or additions to the pretreatment or flow
control facilities shall not be made without due notice to and prior approval
of the Public Works Director and Town Council with final approval by State
DHEC.
   (C)   Pretreatment facilities operation. If pretreatment or control of waste
flows is required, the facilities shall be maintained in good working order and
operated by the user at his or her own cost and expense, subject to the
requirements of this chapter and all other applicable codes, ordinances and
laws whether municipal, state or federal.
   (D)   Admission to property.
      (1)   Whenever it shall be necessary for the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, the Public Works Director, upon the presentation of
credentials, may enter upon any property or premises at reasonable times for
the purpose of:
         (a)   Copying any records required to be kept under the provisions of
this chapter;
         (b)   Inspecting any monitoring equipment or method; and
         (c)   Sampling any discharge of wastewater to the treatment works.
      (2)   The Public Works Director may enter the property at any hour under
emergency circumstances. If the request is denied, it will be considered
grounds for discontinuing service.
   (E)   Protection from accidental discharge. Each user shall provide
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the user’s own
expense. Plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this
protection shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review and shall be
approved by him or her before construction of the facility. Review and approval
of the plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the
responsibility to modify his or her facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Reporting of accidental discharge. If, for any reason, a user does not
or will be unable to comply with any prohibition or limitation of this chapter,
he or she shall immediately notify the Public Works Director so that corrective
action may be taken to protect the wastewater treatment system. In addition, a
written report addressed to the Public Works Director detailing the date, time
and cause of the accidental discharge, the quantity and characteristics of the
discharge and corrective action taken to prevent future discharges, shall be
filed by the responsible user within 30 days of the occurrence of the
noncomplying discharge.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.340) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.72 PERMISSIVE USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permit (permit). Any major industrial user who
shall hereafter discharge any industrial wastes into the town’s wastewater
treatment system or who desires to discharge any industrial waste into the
wastewater treatment system shall make application to the State DHEC for a
wastewater discharge permit into the wastewater treatment system. Approval will
be granted the applicants and a permit issued for a period specified by State
DHEC if evidence is submitted by the applicant that the discharge of wastes
will comply with this chapter and applicable state and federal lawful
requirements, subject to any special agreements allowed by the Superintendent
as stated in the permit. When an industrial user has operated within the terms
and conditions of the permit and where no changes in the discharge are planned,
extension of the permit for another two-year period shall be granted upon
written request by letter.
   (B)   Equalization basin. In order to equalize flows over a seven-day 29-
hour period, each user discharging waste into the town’s sanitary sewers in
sufficient volume to interfere with the normal and proper treatment and
disposal of sewage at the town’s wastewater treatment system, shall construct
and maintain, at his or her own expense, a suitable equalization basin. The
basin shall have a capacity adequate to control the flow rate in accordance
with §
52.70 and an outlet to the sewer controlled by a waterworks-type rate
controller, or other approved device, the setting of which shall be approved by
the Superintendent.
   (C)   Control manhole. Any person discharging industrial wastes into the
town’s sanitary sewer shall construct and maintain a suitable control manhole
to facilitate observation, measurements and sampling of all wastes including
domestic sewage from the user. The manhole shall be installed by the user
discharging the wastes, at his or her own expense, and shall be maintained by
the user so as to be safe, accessible and in proper operating condition at all
times.
   (D)   Measuring device. Where an equalization basin is not required, the
control manhole may, at the industry’s option, be equipped with a measuring
device and/or flow meter. If selected, the measuring device shall be a
permanent type, volume-measuring device, approved by the Superintendent,
installed by the user discharging the wastes at his or her own expense, and
shall be maintained by the user so as to be safe, accessible and in proper
operating condition at all times.
   (E)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be required when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that, the interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be maintained by the user, at his or
her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (F)   Plans. Plans for the construction of equalization basins, control
manholes and measuring devices and grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
approved by the Superintendent prior to the beginning of construction.
   (G)   Special agreement. Any waters or wastes discharged by any major
industrial user, which have characteristics prohibited in §
52.70, may be admitted into the sanitary sewers when the discharge is approved
by the Superintendent within the wastewater discharge permit as a special
agreement. The discharges will be subject to a surcharge, as defined herein.
   (H)   Surcharge. When the concentration of BOD in the industrial waste
discharged into the town’s wastewater treatment system exceeds the limits
prescribed in §
52.70, a monthly surcharge shall be imposed. Charges will be made for poundages
of BOD and flow discharge rate.
   (I)   Surcharge billing. The surcharge for each parameter shall be applied
in addition to the existing regular sewer service charge. All surcharges shall
be applied on monthly utility billing and during subsequent months during the
calendar year in which the major industrial user exceeds permissible limits.
   (J)   Surcharge determination. The surcharges shall reflect the total cost
of treating the pollutant pounds of industrial waste. The method used to
determine the surcharge amount shall consist of dividing the total budget cost
for operating each unit process of the town’s wastewater treatment system which
is affected by BOD by the total poundage of BOD discharged to the wastewater
treatment system during the preceding fiscal year. The rates may be adjusted
more frequently if, in the opinion of the town, a more frequent adjustment is
warranted.
   (K)   Determination of character and concentration of waste. The industrial
waste of each user discharging the wastes into the town’s wastewater treatment
system shall be subject to periodic inspection, and a determination of
character and concentration of the wastes shall be made as often as may be
deemed necessary by the Superintendent or his or her authorized representative.
The inspection and tests shall also be made immediately after any process
change which may affect the quantity or quality of the wastes discharged.
   (L)   Monitoring and testing or procedures. Samples shall be collected in a
manner as to be representative of the actual quality of the waste. Laboratory
methods used in the examination of the waste shall be those set forth in
Standard Methods, copies of which are on file with the Water and Sewer
Utilities Department for inspection by any interested parties.
   (M)   Authority. The determination of the character and concentration of the
industrial wastewater by the Superintendent or his or her authorized
representative shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (N)   Cost.
      (1)   Total costs incident to the supervision, inspection, sampling and
analyzing of wastes, as well as administrative costs, shall be included in the
surcharge made to persons discharging wastewater containing BOD into the town’s
wastewater treatment system.
      (2)   For any user required to meet pretreatment standards as promulgated
by the state or federal government, the total costs incident to the
supervision, inspection, sampling and analyzing of wastes shall be billed to
the user in addition to any other charges for use of the wastewater treatment
system.
      (3)   Total costs incident to any wastewater sampling and/or analyses
performed by the town at the user’s request will be billed to the user.
   (O)   Alteration of normal industrial operations. Notice shall be given the
Superintendent when normal industrial operation will not be available for
discharge, or when a change of process is contemplated, or malfunction of the
pretreatment facility occurs or is anticipated, which will alter demands on the
town’s wastewater treatment system. Normal operations shall include allowance
for legal holidays and other announced plant shutdowns.
   (P)   By-passing of pretreatment facilities. Where preliminary treatment or
holding facilities are required for any purpose, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the user at his or her
expense. There shall be no direct discharge of wastes requiring pretreatment to
the town’s sanitary or storm sewers, without first notifying and obtaining
approval from the Superintendent for the bypassing of the pretreatment
facility.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.350) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.73 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits required. All major industrial users
proposing to connect to or to discharge into any part of the wastewater
treatment system must first obtain a permit. No major industrial user shall
discharge without a valid permit or the express written permission of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   Users seeking a wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file
with the Superintendent an application on the prescribed form and accompanied
by the applicable fee. In support of this application, the user shall submit
the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and standard industrial classification number of
applicant;
         (b)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those set forth in §
52.70, as determined by a reliable and certified analytical laboratory licensed
by the state;
         (d)   Time and duration of discharge;
         (e)   Average and 15-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and season variations, if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans and plumbing plans to show location of
water and sewer lines, location of wet and dry processes and location of
chemical storage facilities;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all chemicals, materials and types of materials which are,
or could be, discharged;
         (h)   Number of employees and hours of operation; and
         (i)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Superintendent to
be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject
to terms and conditions provided herein.
   (C)   Permit conditions. Permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other regulations, user charges and fees
established by the town. The conditions of permits shall be uniformly enforced
in accordance with this chapter and applicable state and federal regulations.
Permit conditions shall include the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater treatment system;
      (2)   The average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge and/or requirements for flow
regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation of inspection and sampling facilities
and specifications for monitoring programs;
      (5)   Requirements for maintaining and submitting monitoring reports and
plant records relating to wastewater discharges;
      (6)   Daily average and daily maximum discharge rates, or other
appropriate conditions, when pollutants subject to limitations and prohibitions
are proposed or present in the user’s wastewater discharge;
      (7)   Compliance schedules and parameter monitoring frequency; and
      (8)   Other conditions to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Discharge monitoring report. Every major industrial user shall file a
discharge monitoring report at intervals as are designated on the user’s
permit. The discharge report shall be filed on forms supplied by the town.
   (E)   Records and monitoring.
      (1)   All major industrial users who discharge or propose to discharge
wastewaters to the wastewater treatment system shall maintain the records of
production, effluent flows and pollutant amounts or concentrations as are
necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
any applicable state or federal pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   The records shall be made available upon request by the
Superintendent. All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available to officials of the regulating authorities upon demand.
      (3)   All major industrial users shall be required to provide the
Superintendent with yearly updated chemical inventory listings, plant process
descriptions and plumbing diagrams.
      (4)   The user of any premises or facility discharging industrial wastes
into the system shall install, at his or her own cost and expense, suitable
monitoring equipment to facilitate the accurate observation, sampling and
measurement of wastewater. The equipment shall be maintained in proper working
order and kept safe and accessible at all times.
      (5)   Necessary monitoring equipment shall be located and maintained on
the industrial user’s premises at a location approved by the Superintendent.
      (6)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the Superintendent’s
requirements and all applicable construction standards and specifications.
      (7)   When more than one user can discharge into a common sewer, the
Superintendent may require installation of separate monitoring equipment for
each user. When there is a significant difference in wastewater constituents
and characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the
Superintendent may require that separate monitoring facilities be installed for
each separate discharge.
   (F)   Duration of permits. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed two years. The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification and change by the Superintendent during the life of the
permit, as limitations or requirements are modified and changed. The user shall
be informed of any proposed changes in his or her permit 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (G)   Transfer of permit. Permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation. The Superintendent shall be notified in writing 30 days
prior to a change of ownership or operation by any user, and a new wastewater
discharge permit application must be submitted to the Superintendent.
   (H)   Revocation of permit. Any user who violates the conditions of his or
her permit, this chapter or applicable state and federal regulations, may have
his or her permit revoked. Upon revocation of the wastewater discharge permit,
the user shall cease any discharge into the town’s wastewater treatment system
and shall reapply to the Superintendent for issuance of a new valid permit.
Violations subjecting a user to possible revocation of his or her permit
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.360) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.74 MAXIMUM RESTRICTIONS.
   In the event the effluent standards and limitations contained in this
chapter conflict with the most nearly applicable state or federal effluent
standards and limitations, then the more stringent shall be applied.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.370) (Ord. 90-02, passed - -)
§ 52.75 SMOKE TESTING.
   The town reserves the right to conduct smoke testing on any portion of the
sewer system. Typically, smoke will originate from a main line owned by the
town. If, for any reason, a town employee needs to investigate on private
property in order to assess possible line breaks, line locations, etc., the
employee shall do so. Due to the nature of smoke testing, the town reserves the
right to access private property without permission, however, in most cases
will make an attempt to contact the private owner. Town employees will not
enter private dwellings during smoke testing unless authorized by the owner.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 52.76 PRIVATE LINE ABANDONMENT.
   If, for any reason, a building such as a mobile home is relocated, the
remaining open sewer line shall be capped to completely prevent sewage from
escaping the line and rainwater or surface runoff water from entering the line.
Also, the owner of any structure connected to the town's sewer system that is
demolished, destroyed, or relocated, shall cap the line. Plugging the line with
concrete or other substances is prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 52.77 PRIVATE LINE REPAIR.
   If any portion of a private service line is discovered to be cracked,
broken, misaligned, etc., so as to allow for an overflow of sewage or inflow
from rainfall or surface runoff, the owner must immediately have the portion of
line repaired.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 52.78 GREASE CONTROL.
   This grease control policy has been developed in order to insure an
effective means of regulating the collection of fats, oils, and grease
(referred to as grease). The intent is to provide a comprehensive policy for
the town personnel regarding the appropriate means of collection,
transportation, and disposal and to provide information to persons who are
subject to this policy.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this grease control policy is to provide for
the regulation of the collection and transportation of non-hazardous fats,
oils, and grease of animal or vegetable origin retained in commercial grease
traps in order to eliminate the deleterious impact of grease on the wastewater
collection and treatment facilities. Ultimately, the chances of sanitary sewer
overflows (SSOs) are lessened, thus reducing the chances of impact to the
environment and/or human health. This policy also contains guidelines on proper
sizing of grease traps, permitting, maintenance, inspection, reporting, and
record keeping.
   (B)   Duties. The Director of Public Utilities will enforce compliance with
permits and regulations. The Director is also responsible for implementing
these grease control requirements. The Director shall be responsible for all
administrative actions such as inspections, plan review, and records
maintenance.
   (C)   Applicability. Upon the effective date of this revised sewer use
ordinance, new users including restaurants, cafeterias, hospitals, rest homes,
butchering facilities, churches, and school kitchen operations shall provide
approved grease traps as required by the Director of Public Utilities for the
removal of grease. Additionally, any existing automobile repair facility or
machining shop with floor drains which are located in the same building near a
source of petroleum products, solvents, parts washing stations, antifreeze
storage, or any other chemical use or storage area and are connected to the
town's sewer system shall plug each floor drain so as not to be connected with
the town's sewer system. Users with an existing grease trap(s) will be allowed
to continue using the trap; however, the following guidelines regarding
maintenance, cleaning, etc. shall apply. Current applicable users (as earlier
defined in this section) with no grease trap in place will be required to
install at a minimum an under-sink grease trap within one year of the effective
date of this document. Furthermore, future users as defined in this section
shall also install an approved grease trap before their establishment becomes
operable except that of bakeries and other non-“eat-in” type facility in which
food is served and eaten on the premises. New non-“eat-in” facilities shall be
required to install an under-sink type grease trap in which grease is
collected, cleaned and disposed of by the user.
   (D)   Generator requirements. Persons required to install grease traps shall
submit to the Director of Public Utilities a plan of the proposed grease trap
indicating the location of the building drain. Approval to discharge shall be
obtained by the Director. Grease traps for food service establishments shall be
based on a minimum capacity of 20 gallons per seat (or bed, in the case of
hospitals, rest homes, or other care facilities) except that no grease trap
shall be smaller than 1,000 gallons unless approved by the Pretreatment
manager. No single chamber of a grease trap shall exceed 3,000 gallons in
capacity, and food service establishments requiring traps exceeding 3,000
gallons shall install multiple units in parallel to comply with these
requirements. Upon obtaining prior approval from the Pretreatment Manager, the
generator may use approved EPA or SCDHEC methodology for sizing grease traps in
lieu of the above criteria. As indicated above, establishments requiring traps
exceeding 3,000 gallons shall install multiple units. Users that meet the
definition of SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER shall comply with the applicable
provisions of the sewer use and pretreatment regulation.
   (E)   Routine maintenance. All grease traps shall be purchased, installed,
and maintained at the user' s expense. Maintenance shall include the sufficient
removal of all contents including floating materials, wastewater, slugs, and
solids at a frequency of once every six months or more frequently, if needed,
to assure proper operation of the grease trap. Before cleaning, the owner shall
contact the Director of Public Utilities to notify him when the cleaning
contractor is scheduled to clean the grease trap. This ensures an opportunity
for the Director of Public Utilities, or another representative from the town,
to observe and evaluate the user's cleaning schedule. The town reserves the
right to inspect grease traps during cleaning and requiring more frequent
cleaning if the grease trap is suspected to be allowing the discharge of grease
into the sewer system. During cleaning, the entire contents of the grease trap
shall be removed. Upon written request from the generator, the Director of
Public Utilities may allow a less frequent schedule of maintenance when
assurance of proper operation of the grease trap can be demonstrated. Decanting
or discharging any of the contents removed grease trap back into the same
grease trap or into any other grease trap is prohibited unless the grease
portion of the grease trap contents can be separated and visually observed by
the pumping contractor to have been separated and a high degree of reliability
that no grease is re-entering the grease trap is achieved.
   (F)   Substitutions prohibited. The use of any biological or chemical
additives as a substitute for the use of grease traps or the proper maintenance
of grease traps is prohibited. Chemical additives, such as solvents, are
strictly prohibited from use in all cases. However, the use of biological
additives as a supplement to maintenance may be authorized by the Director of
Public Utilities. Proper documentation of approval shall be obtained by the
user in writing from the Director.
   (G)   Transporter requirements. Transporters shall maintain a current
license from the SCDHEC Division of Onsite Wastewater Systems to maintain
grease traps and haul grease waste. Transporters shall use approved disposal
sites and methods specified in the license. The city will not accept grease
trap waste, therefore, it is the transporter's responsibility to use
appropriate disposal sites for grease trap wastes. The town reserves the right
to conduct inspections of grease traps during the cleaning process and to
communicate with transporter concerning time of cleaning, condition of the
grease trap, etc. the owner of the grease trap shall be required to document
grease trap' cleaning in a log-book maintained at the owner's facility which
includes date of pumping, volume pumped, signature of the licensed transporter
and the treatment facility to which the grease waste will be taken.
   (H)   Design specifications. Infrequently used floor drains whose traps have
the tendency to “dry out” and produce odor shall not be connected to a grease
trap. Showers, toilets, washing machines, bath tubs, or sinks which are used
only for vegetable washing, shall not be connected to a grease trap. The vent
line from the sample port riser on the, interceptor outlet line shall be
connected to the building waste vent piping.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of
this chapter relating to the pretreatment, disposition or discharge of wastes;
and each violation thereof, and each day on which there is a failure to comply
with the terms hereof shall be a distinct and separate offense and punishable
as such.
   (B)   Notification of violation. Whenever the superintendent finds that any
user has violated or is violating this chapter, or any prohibition, limitation
or requirement contained herein, he may serve upon such user a written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time, not to
exceed 30 days, for the satisfactory correction thereof.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   If the violation is not corrected by timely compliance, the
superintendent may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to show cause before the council why service should not be terminated
or penalties assessed. A notice shall be served on the offending party,
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the council regarding
the violation and directing the offending party to show cause before council
why an order should not be made directing the termination of service or the
assessment of penalties. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally
or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation or business establishment.
      (2)   After the Council has reviewed the evidence presented at the show
cause hearing, if may issue an order directing that in a specified period of
time anyone or combination of the following actions be taken:
         (a)   Revoke the user's permit;
         (b)   Order the cessation of all discharge into the town's wastewater
treatment system by the user;
         (c)   Impose on the user a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000 for each
violation; and/or
         (d)   Require the user to reimburse the town, upon demand, for any
expenses, loss or damage actually sustained by the town to its wastewater
treatment system, treatment plant, treatment processes, or receiving waters as
a result of such violation and for the amount of any fine or penalty imposed
upon the town by any state or federal regulatory agency as a result of such
violation.
   (D)   Disconnection of service.
      (1)   If any user shall disregard the Council's order following a show
cause hearing, the Council may order termination of such user's connection with
the town water system. The connection shall be resumed thereafter only at such
user's expense and only with the approval of the superintendent based upon a
satisfactory rectification of all past violations of this chapter and an
assurance that no future violations will take place. Alternatively, the council
may order the superintendent to cause the user's connection with the town's
wastewater treatment system to be severed. Such connection shall be resumed
only under the conditions outlined above for the resumption of a disconnected
water service.
      (2)   In the case of any user discharging a waste which places the
wastewater treatment system in imminent danger, the superintendent may exercise
his authority to immediately sever the user's connection with either the town's
water system or the town's wastewater system without the prior, approval of the
Council. Such connection shall be resumed only under the conditions outlined in
division (D)(1) of this section; and the superintendent shall order the user to
show cause before the Council why penalties prescribed in this section should
not be assessed.
      (3)   In any case of disconnection of service, the user shall receive
prior notification in writing.
   (E)   Damage to town property. It is unlawful for any person willfully to
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any equipment or materials
belonging to the town and used, or intended to be used, for the purposes of
taking samples or making measurements, tests, examinations or repairs to the
sewer system or water system of the town. Violators shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.380) (Ord. 90-02, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2019-02, passed 7-
22-2019)
CHAPTER 53: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
53.01   Definitions
53.02   Initial review of basic cable rates
53.03   Review or request for increase in basic cable rates
53.04   Cable operator information
53.05   Automatic rate adjustments
53.06   Enforcement
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels and all
domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. A per-channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in a cable system;
or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
or similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that the benchmark rate of the price cap is not sufficient to allow the
cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier
and to continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the town notifies the cable operator of the town’s qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, education or
governmental use and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the town, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per-channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any nonlocal broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.010) (Ord. 93-08, passed - -)
§ 53.02 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter
and the certification of the town by the FCC, the town shall immediately notify
all cable operators in the town, by certified mail, return receipt requested,
that the town intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic
service tier and associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992,
being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
town, a cable operator shall file with the town, its current rates for basic
service tier and associated equipment and any supporting material concerning
the reasonableness of its rates.
   (C)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the Town Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark, the Town Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its basic cable rates with the town.
      (2)   If the Town Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its basic rates with the town, the proposed rates will
continue in effect.
   (D)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the Town Council is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the Town
Council shall, within 30 days from the date the cable operator filed its basic
cable rates with the town and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the Town Council needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable
benchmark.
      (2)   If the Town Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period, the Town Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts
are paid.
   (E)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the Town Council shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (F)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic rate may submit the objection in writing any time
before the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made
part of the record, the objector must provide the Town Clerk/Treasurer with the
objector’s name and address.
   (G)   Benchmark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rate schedule as being in compliance with the FCC’s reasonable rate
standard, the Town Council shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis
in accordance with the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the Town
Council’s findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as
follows.
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator’s rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator’s per-channel rate on 9-30-1992,
reduced by 10%, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and any
change in the number occurring between 9-30-1992 and the initial date of
regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator’s per-channel rate was below the benchmark on 9-30-1992, the
initial basic cable rate shall be the benchmark, adjusted for inflation.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the permitted level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to justify initial basic
cable rates above the FCC’s reasonable rate standard. The Town Council will
review a cost-of-service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The Town Council may approve initial basic cable rates above
the benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a
cost-of-service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below
the cable operator’s 9-30-1992 rates minus 10%, will prescribe the cable
operator’s new rates.
   (I)   Decision.
      (1)   By formal resolution. After completion of its review of the cable
operator’s proposed rates, the Town Council shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The decision shall include one of the following:
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the Town Council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the Town Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If the Town Council determines that the
initial basic cable rates submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or that
the cable operator’s cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the Town
Council may order the rates reduced in accordance with divisions (G) or (H)
above, as applicable. In addition, the Town Council may order the cable
operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the excessive portion of the rates
with interest (computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue
Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to 9-1-1993.
The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in accordance
with FCC regulations as directed in the Town Council’s decision resolution.
      (3)   Statement of reasons for decision and public notice. If rates
proposed by cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there
were objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution
must state the reasons for the decision and the Town Council must give the
public notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement
once in a newspaper of general circulation in the town.
   (J)   Appeal. The Town Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.020) (Ord. 93-08, passed - -)
§ 53.03 REVIEW OR REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the town who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the town and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the cable operator
desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more often
than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of the
initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the Town Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
Town Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the town.
      (2)   If the Town Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the town, the proposed rates will go
into effect.
   (C)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the Town Council is unable to determine whether the rate
increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the Town
Council shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following
additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the Town Council needs more time to ensure that
the requested increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard as
determined by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   One hundred fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
      (3)   If the Town Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period, the Town Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the Town Council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (E)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may submit the objection in writing any time before
the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the Town Clerk/Treasurer with the
objector’s name and address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the Town Council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the Town Council later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   (G)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC’s price cap, the Town Council
shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the
standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the Town Council’s findings, the
basic cable rates shall be established as follows.
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the Town Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
the Town Council will review the submission pursuant to the FCC standards for
cost-of-service review. The Town Council may approve a rate increase above the
price cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-
of-service determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the
cable operator’s then current rate will prescribe the cable operator’s new
rate.
   (I)   Decision. The Town Council’s decision concerning the requested rate
increase shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person in writing at any time before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   The Town Council may order refunds of subscribers’ rate payments
with interest if:
         (a)   The Town Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in division (C) above;
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The Town Council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the Town Council
disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the Town Council’s decision
resolution.
   (K)   Appeal. The Town Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.030) (Ord. 93-08, passed - -)
§ 53.04 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   Town may require.
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the Town
Council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the Town Council may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator’s rates are in accord with the
standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality.
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the Town Council may
request, in writing, that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      (3)   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      (4)   Casual requests which do not comply with the requirements of this
division (B) shall not be considered.
   (C)   Town Council action. Requests which comply with the requirements of
division (B) above will be acted upon by the Town Council. The Town Council
will grant the request if the cable operator presents by a preponderance of the
evidence, a case for nondisclosure consistent with applicable federal
regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be placed in a public
file in lieu of the information withheld from public inspection. If the request
does not present a case for nondisclosure and the Town Council denies the
request, the Town Council shall take one of the following actions.
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the town, the cable operator may request that the town return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the town will comply with
this request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest so
requires, will the information be available for public inspection.
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the Town
Council, the information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   Appeal. If the town denies the request for confidentiality, the cable
operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five working days
of the Town Council decision, and the release of the information will be stayed
pending review.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.040) (Ord. 93-08, passed - -)
§ 53.05 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual inflation adjustment. In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per-channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI.
   (B)   Other external costs.
      (1)   The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PI. The factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per-channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per-channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation on 2-28-
1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per-channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before 10-6-1994.
   (C)   Notification and review. The cable operator shall notify the town at
least 30 days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment
items. The town shall review the increase to determine whether the item or
items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the town makes no objection within
30 days of receiving notice of the increase, the increase may go into effect.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.050) (Ord. 93-08, passed - -)
§ 53.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Refunds. The town may order the cable operator to refund to
subscribers a portion of previously paid rates under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be
in excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment;
or
      (2)   The cable operator has failed to comply with the valid rate order
issued by the town.
   (B)   Fines. If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or
refund order, the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each
day the cable operator fails to comply.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.060) (Ord. 93-08, passed - -)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE
Section
54.01   Properly securing garbage
Cross-reference:
   Garbage utility service rules and regulations, see §
50.13
§ 54.01 PROPERLY SECURING GARBAGE.
   Every customer shall properly secure household garbage in a plastic bag,
securely fastened to avoid the spill of contents and placed in a proper
container.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 5-17-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC LAWS
   
71.   BICYCLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC LAWS
Section
70.01   Uniform Act Regulating Traffic
70.02   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court for traffic
70.03   Restrictions of Uniform Act Regulating Traffic
70.04   Manner of driving
70.05   Riding or parking vehicle on sidewalk
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The provisions of the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on the highways
of the state, S.C. Code Ch. 56-5, are adopted and ordained as the laws
governing traffic on the streets and roadways in the town, along with all terms
and definitions therein set out.
   (B)   The Uniform Act Regulating Traffic, as aforesaid, shall be known and
cited as the “Traffic Ordinances of the Town of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina”.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.010)
§ 70.02 JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT FOR TRAFFIC.
   The Municipal Court of the town may try and determine criminal cases
involving violations of the provisions of this chapter or provisions of S.C.
Code Ch. 56-5 occurring within the limits of the town when the penalty
prescribed by state law for the violations does not exceed 30 days imprisonment
and/or $500 fine. The Municipal Court may have trial jurisdiction over the
criminal cases the same as magistrates.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 70.03 RESTRICTIONS OF UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The adoption of the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic shall not, in any
way, affect the administrative ordinances or resolutions of the Town Council in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of the Traffic Act.
   (B)   The traffic ordinances shall, in no way, affect or relate to the
opening, relocating, naming, closing or altering of streets and alleys or any
ordinances of the town affecting zoning.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.030)
§ 70.04 MANNER OF DRIVING.
   Manner of driving generally. Every person operating a vehicle within the
town shall drive the vehicle in a careful and prudent manner, having regard for
the width, grade, curves, corners, traffic and use of these streets and all
other attending circumstances, so as not to endanger the life, limb or property
of any person.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.040) (Ord. 95-06, passed - -; Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-
2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 RIDING OR PARKING VEHICLE ON SIDEWALK.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride, propel or park any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle upon any sidewalk, except as may be necessary in
entering or leaving a premises or building.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.050) (Ord. 95-07, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)    A manner of driving offense, per §
70.04, shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $80, nor greater than
$225.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.040)
   (C)    Any person violating §
70.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a penalty of not
less than $50, nor greater than $175.
(Prior Code, § 10.04.050)
(Ord. 95-06, passed - -; Ord. 95-07, passed - -; Ord. 2017-06, passed 4-24-
2017)
CHAPTER 71: BICYCLES
Section
71.01   Operation within the town limits
71.02   Operation on sidewalk or pedestrian walkway within the town limits
71.03   Operation at night
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 OPERATION WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle crosswise or curving
to and fro or to ride without having control of the bicycle on any street in
the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OPERATION ON SIDEWALK OR PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon any sidewalk or
pedestrian walkway in the town. It is also unlawful for any person to ride a
bicycle on any street, alley or highway in the town without having his or her
hands upon the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 OPERATION AT NIGHT.
   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly
in front of the lawful upper beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.030) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any violator of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.12.040)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   PUBLIC SAFETY; FIRE PREVENTION
   
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
93.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
   
94.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
   
95.   LITTERING; LOT CLEANLINESS
   
96.   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
90.01   Cruelty to animals
90.02   Abandoning animals
90.03   Nuisance conditions
Domesticated Animals
90.15   Domesticated animals running at large
90.16   Ownership
90.17   Rabies permit
90.18   Domesticated animals in season running at large
90.19   Detainer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to inflict unnecessary cruelty upon any
animal, or to ride, drive or work it when sick or unfit for work; to override,
overwork, overload or ride it when overworked; to torture, torment or to beat
or cruelly whip any animal; and it is unlawful for any person owning or having
charge of any animal to fail to provide it with proper food, drink, shelter or
protection from the weather.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to abandon or dispose of any animal in the
town. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any fowl or animal which, by sound, odor or sight, materially
interferes with, or affects, the health, comfort, peace or quiet of the people
is declared to be a nuisance. For the purpose of this section, ANY FOWL OR
ANIMAL includes horses, mules, cows, dogs, livestock, poultry, birds and other
animals or pets and has reference also to the having, maintaining, keeping and
the like of any barn, pen, stable, enclosure, poultry yard or feeding lot.
   (B)   Areas of confinement, lots, pens and enclosures shall be of adequate
size (minimum of 20,000 square feet for each) shall be located at least 50 feet
from other residences or places of business, and shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition at all times. Not more than two of any kind of animal, fowl,
bird and the like shall be allowed in pens, enclosures and the like unless they
are located 500 feet or more from residences or places of business other than
those of owner or custodian. Exceptions may be made for one litter of puppies
and the like after birth and not to exceed 60 days, when weaning should be
complete.
   (C)   The possession of any animals and fowl in any situation which is not
excepted from this section shall constitute a prima facie nuisance. The grounds
for investigation or prosecution therefor of violations of this section shall
be the personal knowledge of the conditions by the accuser or person initiating
appropriate legal action or a complaint in writing signed by the offended
party.
   (D)   Any who shall fail or refuse to take action or do things as will abate
the nuisance when requested in writing to do so by the Chief of Police shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6.08.030) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOMESTICATED ANIMALS
§ 90.15 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person who owns or keeps a domesticated animal to
permit the domesticated animal to run at large or to be at large within the
town limits.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.010) (Ord. 92-11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 OWNERSHIP.
   Any domesticated animal unlawfully running at large or being at large within
the town limits shall not be deemed to be property and no owner or keeper of a
domesticated animal shall have any property right or right of ownership in the
domesticated animal.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.020) (Ord. 92-11, passed - -)
§ 90.17 RABIES PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns a domesticated animal or keeps
a domesticated animal in his or her possession to do so unless a written permit
for the domesticated animal has been granted and issued to the owner or keeper
by the Board of Health of the county, certifying that the domesticated animal
has been inoculated against rabies.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.030) (Ord. 92-11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS IN SEASON RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to allow any domesticated animal in
season to run at large on the streets. The Chief of Police and his or her
assistants, or persons designated, shall take up the domesticated animal and
shall not deliver the same to the owner until the fine levied by the town is
paid and, in default, the domesticated animal shall be disposed of as provided
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.040) (Ord. 92-11, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.19 DETAINER.
   Any domesticated animal found at large within the town limits in violation
of the terms of this chapter may be caught and detained by the town authorities
and, if not redeemed as herein required and provided within not more than five
days, may be by the town authorities thereafter humanely killed.
(Prior Code, § 6.04.050) (Ord. 92-11, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC SAFETY; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
91.01   Fireworks
91.02   Guns and firearms
91.03   Noise control
Fire Protection Generally
91.15   Regulations for Town Fire Department equipment and vehicles
91.16   False fire alarms
91.17   Fire hydrants and waterlines
91.18   Driving over fire hose
91.19   Tampering with fire equipment
Fire Prevention
91.30   Definitions
91.31   Interfering with firefighters
91.32   Modifications
91.33   Appeals
91.34   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits
Open Burning
91.45   Prohibition
91.46   Notice of violation
91.47   Repeated violation
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junked Motor Vehicles, see
Chapter 94
   Littering; Lot Cleanliness, see
Chapter 95
   Offenses Against Peace, see
Chapter 132
   Public Works, see Title V
   Town Policies, see
Chapter 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The town adopts in their entirety all provisions of the state law
pertaining to the sale and use of fireworks, with particular reference to S.C.
Code §§ 23-35-10 to 23-35-170 and its supplements, and the further regulations
herein prescribed shall not conflict in any way with the state laws and shall
be cumulative thereto and additions thereto.
   (B)   The regulations and laws herein prescribed are supplemental to the
previous ordinances and laws providing for regulations of the sale and use of
fireworks previously adopted by the Town Council.
   (C)   It is unlawful to light and shoot fireworks of all types within 200
feet of any business firm or place of business within the town limits at any
time.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 GUNS AND FIREARMS.
   (A)   Any person who shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
firearms, cracker, skyrocket or explosive and noisy substance or thing,
calculated to injure persons or property within the corporate limits of the
town shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any gun, pistol or other small arms so discharged by any minor or
disorderly person, having no ostensible property to pay the penalty levied by
the courts, may be seized by the Mayor or any one of the Council members or
police who shall see the person so offending and, in case the person so
offending shall not, within ten days after conviction, pay the penalty imposed
and the costs of the prosecution, the gun, pistol or other small arms shall be
sold to discharge the penalty and costs; provided that, nothing herein
contained shall extend to prohibit or restrain military parades, police duty or
any other duty enjoined by law, the shooting of any mad dog or other dangerous
animal.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   The creation and continuation of any loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises is prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to cause, make or
contribute to creating any loud or disturbing noise of any character, intensity
or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any citizen.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
annoying and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Blowing horns. The sounding or blowing of any horn or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, motor bus or other vehicle, except as a danger
signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in
motion only as a danger signal; the creation by means of any signal device of
any loud or harsh noise; and the sounding of the device for any unnecessary
period of time;
      (2)   Radios, phonographs, television and the like. The playing of any
radio, phonograph, piccolo, television or any musical instrument in a manner or
with a volume as to annoy or disturb any person, or the playing of the
instruments in a manner as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any person in any dwelling, hotel or other residence;
      (3)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent
or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in
the vicinity;
      (4)   Use of vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded or used or repaired in a manner as to create loud or
unnecessary noises, particularly grating, grinding, rattling, riveting or other
disturbing noises;
      (5)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or
as a warning of danger;
      (6)   Exhaust discharge. To discharge into the open air the exhaust from
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat engine or
motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom; and
      (7)   Loudspeakers or amplifiers on vehicles. The use of any mechanical
loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks, airplanes or other vehicles for
advertising or other purposes, except by special permission of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.40.010) (Ord. 89-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PROTECTION GENERALLY
§ 91.15 REGULATIONS FOR TOWN FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES.
   No person, except bona fide members of the Fire Department, shall be
permitted to ride on the engines or apparatus of the Fire Department in going
to or coming from fires.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given a false alarm of
fire, or to pull the slide of any signal box, except in case of fire, or to
injure, destroy or, in any manner, interfere with the electric fire alarm of
the town, or with the batteries, boxes, stations, wires or other apparatus used
in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 FIRE HYDRANTS AND WATERLINES.
   It is unlawful for any person, except any authorized town officer or
employee or a person expressly authorized by the Department of Public Works, to
open or otherwise tamper with any fire hydrant or waterlines.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle of any description
over or across a fire hose stretched or laid upon the ground for use at a fire,
for practice of the firefighters or for any other proper purpose of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The state traffic law prohibiting following or parking near fire
apparatus (S.C. Code § 56-5-1960) is incorporated by reference in this section
as is S.C. Code § 56-5-2530, which prohibits parking near fire stations and
hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 TAMPERING WITH FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to use, borrow or tamper
with any equipment of the Fire Department without the express consent of the
Fire Department.
   (B)   EQUIPMENT means all vehicles, firefighting apparatus, supplies,
facilities or other material belonging to the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION. The inspector, under immediate
supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   CORPORATE COUNSEL. The attorney for the town.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.010)
§ 91.31 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to hinder or obstruct any firefighter or other
authorized person while the person is answering a fire call or any other
emergency call, or to hinder or obstruct a person who is attempting to
extinguish a fire or remedy any emergency while acting in an official capacity.
   (B)   The failure to obey any lawful order of any official of the Fire or
Police Department at the scene of any emergency shall constitute a violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall have power to modify
any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing
by the owner, lessee or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
code; provided that, the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of the modification, when granted or allowed, and the
decision of the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention thereon shall be entered
upon the records of the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.030)
§ 91.33 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Mayor and Council within 30
days from the date of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.040)
§ 91.34 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The Mayor and Town Council, the Chief of the Fire Department and the Chief
of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall act as a committee to determine and
specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to
those now enumerated in the code. The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
shall post the list in a conspicuous place in his or her office and distribute
copies thereof to interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.050) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.45 PROHIBITION.
   Open burning is prohibited, except as provided below:
   (A)   Open burning of leaves, tree branches or yard trimmings originating on
the premises of private residences or dwellings of four families or less, and
burned on those premises;
   (B)   Open burning in connection with the preparation of food for immediate
consumption;
   (C)   Campfires and fires used solely for recreational purposes or for
ceremonial occasions;
   (D)   Fires purposely set to forest lands for specific management practices
in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Department. The practices shall
include:
      (1)   Prescribed burning under existing standards for various management
objectives; and
      (2)   Site preparation burning for purposes of clearing an area for
regeneration.
   (E)   Fires purposely set for agricultural control of diseases, weeds, pests
and for other specific agricultural purposes in accordance with practices
acceptable to the Department of Health and Environmental Control;
   (F)   Open burning of trees, brush, grass and other vegetable matter for
game management purposes in accordance with practices acceptable to the
Department of Health and Environmental Control;
   (G)   Open burning in other than predominantly residential areas for the
purpose of land clearing or right-of-way maintenance. This will be exempt only
if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Prevailing winds at the time of the burning are away from any city
or town, the ambient air of which may be significantly affected by smoke from
the burning;
      (2)   The location of the burning is at least 1,000 feet from all
residential, commercial and industrial facilities other than a dwelling or
structure located on the property on which the burning is conducted;
      (3)   The amount of dirt on the material being burned is minimized;
      (4)   Heavy oils, asphaltic materials, items containing natural or
synthetic rubber or any materials other than plant growth which produce smoke
in excess of 40% opacity are not a part of the material burned;
      (5)   The initial burning may be commenced only between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 3:00 p.m.; no combustible material is added to the fire between 3:00
p.m. of one day and 9:00 a.m. the following day;
      (6)   No more than one pile 60 feet by 60 feet, or equivalent, will be
burned within a six-acre area at one time; and
      (7)   In the case of land clearing, all salvageable timber and pulpwood
must be removed.
   (H)   Fires set for the purposes of training public firefighting personnel
when authorized by the appropriate governmental entity and fires set by a
private industry as a part of an organized program of drills for the training
of firefighting personnel. These will be exempt only if the drills are solely
for the purpose of firefighting training and the duration of the burning held
to the minimum required for those purposes;
   (I)   Open burning of rubbish and garbage on the premises of and originating
from private residences or dwellings of four families or less where services
for the disposal of the materials are not available; and open burning on the
property where it occurs of trade waste from building and construction
operations will be exempt only if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The location of the burning is at least 500 feet from any dwelling
located in a predominantly residential area other than a dwelling or structure
located on the property on which the burning is conducted;
      (2)   Heavy oils, asphaltic materials, items containing natural or
synthetic rubber or any other trade waste which produces amounts of smoke in
excess of 40% opacity are not burned; and
      (3)   The initial burning is commenced only between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 3:00 p.m.; no additional fuel shall be added before 9:00 a.m. of the
following day.
   (J)   Open burning, in remote or specified areas:
      (1)   Of trade waste as constitutes rubbish, as defined in this section;
provided, smoke in excess of 40% opacity is not emitted except for a reasonable
period to get the fire started, and the burning is conducted in accordance with
division (G) above. The burning must be of a nonrecurring nature;
      (2)   Of highly explosive or other dangerous material for which there is
no other feasible method of disposal;
      (3)   For nonrecurring unusual circumstances; and
      (4)   For experimental burning for purposes of data gathering and
research. However, a written permit for these types of burning (in this
division (J)) must be obtained in advance from the Department.
   (K)   As to the burning permit in division (J) above, a written permit must
be obtained from the Department of Health and Environmental Control prior to
this burning.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see State Code of Laws Volume 24-A, Regulations of State
Department of Health and Environmental Control, R61-62.2; 1984 amendment; as
further amended by the town (7-29-1986)
§ 91.46 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Upon receipt of a notice of violation of this section, the Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall send written notice to the violator of the section and the
possible penalties.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 91.47 REPEATED VIOLATION.
   Following receipt of the written notice, should a further violation occur at
the same or different site, a warrant shall be issued by the Chief of Police
for violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.030) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of §
91.01 shall be a misdemeanor and punishment by fine of not more than $500 and/
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010)
   (C)   A violation of any provisions of §
91.03 shall be a misdemeanor and punishment by fine of not more than $500 and/
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 8.40.020)
   (D)   Any violation of §§
91.15 through
91.19 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060)
   (E)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.34, or fail to comply therewith, who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with an order as affirmed or modified by the
Mayor and Town Council, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the
time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
not less than $10, nor more than $100, or by imprisonment for not more than 30
days, or by both the fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for
any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all
persons shall be required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within
a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.060)
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
91.45 through
91.47 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction, shall be subject to
a fine not exceeding $500 and/or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days for each
offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8.24.040)
(Ord. 89-05, passed - -; Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
92.01   Approval of names of new streets; change of name
92.02   Street and roadway acceptance
92.03   Breaking, removing street lights
92.04   Blocking sidewalks or streets
92.05   Repair of fences
92.06   Burning matter on streets or sidewalks
Excavations and Obstructions
92.20   Excavation permit required
92.21   Danger signals required at excavations
92.22   Obstructions prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 APPROVAL OF NAMES OF NEW STREETS; CHANGE OF NAME.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to lay out any new street within the
town without first procuring from the Council approval of the name to be
assigned to the new street.
   (B)   No person shall change the name of any street, except upon consent of
Council as indicated by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 STREET AND ROADWAY ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   No street or roadway shall be accepted until the same has been paved
or surface-treated in a manner acceptable to the town.
   (B)   Before acceptance, all roadway or street rights-of-way must be deeded
to the town in a width of 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 92.03 BREAKING, REMOVING STREET LIGHTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to break any lamp or electric light or to
remove any electric light bulb or otherwise tamper with any street light.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.030) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 BLOCKING SIDEWALKS OR STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person or group of persons to congregate upon the
streets or sidewalks in a manner as to impede the free flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.040) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 REPAIR OF FENCES.
   All owners of lands or lots of lands within the corporate limits shall keep
all fences adjacent to any street or alley in good repair and all dilapidated
fences adjacent to the street or alley are declared a nuisance and may be
removed by the Chief of Police by order of the Council and the owner shall be
billed for any costs of removal incurred by the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.050) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 92.06 BURNING MATTER ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to burn leaves or other matter on the streets or
sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.060) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 92.20 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to dig up, mutilate or make an excavation in
any street or sidewalk for any purpose without a permit from the Public Works
Department.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21 DANGER SIGNALS REQUIRED AT EXCAVATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to allow any trench, ditch or excavation in
any street, sidewalk or public place to remain open between sunset and sunrise,
unless the trench, ditch or excavation has a sufficient number of lights
properly displayed around it as danger signals to prevent accidents to persons
or property.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.020) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to place any obstruction upon or cause to be
obstructed in any manner any street, sidewalk or public way or part thereof, so
as to render the passage of persons, vehicles or other travel thereon
difficult, inconvenient, dangerous or impossible except as otherwise provided
in this subchapter; provided that, this section shall not apply to any employee
of the town, county or state while the employee is immediately and actively
engaged in the maintenance, improvement or construction of any street, sidewalk
or public way in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.030) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
93.01   Permit required for parades, gatherings, assemblies, demonstrations and
funeral processions and the like
93.02   Permit must be applied for within time limit
93.03   Permit issued for each parade, gathering, assembly, demonstration,
funeral procession and the like
§ 93.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PARADES, GATHERINGS, ASSEMBLIES, DEMONSTRATIONS AND
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any persons, organizations, societies, associations,
groups or for any agents, members or representatives thereof, to aid, abet or
organize directly or indirectly any parades, gatherings, assemblies,
demonstrations and funeral processions, or to march in same, in the town, or to
march upon the streets of the town in any groups of persons numbering more than
five, occupying, marching or proceeding along any street or roadway in the
town, or across any property in the town, without a permit issued by the Chief
of Police of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 PERMIT MUST BE APPLIED FOR WITHIN TIME LIMIT.
   This permit must be applied for by any group or organization at least ten
hours prior to the anticipated holding of any parade, gathering, assembly,
demonstration and funeral procession. For the application, a written permit
must be filed with the Chief of Police, setting out the name of the
organization applying for the permit, its state of origin, its purpose, the
name of the person or persons who will be in charge and any other pertinent
information that might be required of the applicant in order to protect the
public welfare of the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.020)
§ 93.03 PERMIT ISSUED FOR EACH PARADE, GATHERING, ASSEMBLY, DEMONSTRATION,
FUNERAL PROCESSION AND THE LIKE.
   Each permit so issued shall be for one parade, gathering, assembly,
demonstration or funeral procession.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.030)
CHAPTER 94: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
94.01   Definitions
94.02   Prohibited storage
94.03   Permitted storage
94.04   Investigation of premises
94.05   Notice of removal
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is partially dismantled or
wrecked and which cannot safely or legally be operated.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled land vehicle which can be used for towing
or transporting people or materials, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, buses, motor homes, motorized campers, motorcycles, motor
scooters, tractors, snowmobiles, dune buggies and other off-the-road vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESSORIES. Any part or parts of any motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property not owned by the federal government,
state, county, town school board or other public subdivisions.
   REMOVAL. The physical relocation of a motor vehicle to an authorized
location.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.010)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITED STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning or having custody of any
junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories to store or permit any
vehicle or accessories to remain on any private property within the town for a
period of more than 30 days after the receipt of a notice requiring the
removal, and it is furthermore unlawful for any person owning any private
property in the town to store or to permit to remain any vehicles or
accessories on his or her property for more than a like period.
      (2)   The storage is declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated
or removed and penalties imposed as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, after notification has been given to
remove any junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories from any private
property, to move the same to any other private property upon which storage is
not permitted or onto any public highway or other public property for purposes
of storage.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PERMITTED STORAGE.
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle or motor vehicle
accessories stored within an enclosed building, or on the premises of a
business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of the business enterprise, in a storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner, or seasonal use vehicles such as
snowmobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters and non-motorized campers. The
business enterprises shall include auto junk yards, auto repair and auto body
shops, but shall not include automobile service stations, tire, battery or
accessory sales stores.
   (B)   Each property owner will be permitted storage of one vehicle, subject
to state licensing which does not display a current license plate to be parked
or stored in a carport/shed or enclosed building.
   (C)   In the event the property owner possesses in excess of one vehicle,
the vehicles shall be stored in an enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.030)
§ 94.04 INVESTIGATION OF PREMISES.
   The Police Chief, on routine inspection or upon receipt of a complaint, may
investigate a suspected junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories and
record the make, model, style and identification numbers and its situation.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.040)
§ 94.05 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Chief or any member of his or her Department finds
or is notified that any junked motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories have
been stored or permitted to be stored in a manner which is inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter, the Police Chief shall send, by certified mail,
a notice to the owner of the private property, as shown on the tax assessment
records of the town, on which the same is located to remove the junked motor
vehicle or motor vehicle accessories within 30 days.
   (B)   The notice shall also contain the following additional information:
      (1)   Nature of complaint;
      (2)   Description and location of the motor vehicle and/or motor vehicle
accessories;
      (3)   Statement that the motor vehicle or motor vehicle accessories will
be removed from the premises no later than 30 days from date of notification;
      (4)   Statement that removal from the location specified in the
notification to another location upon which the storage is not permitted, is
prohibited and shall subject the person to additional penalties;
      (5)   Statement that if removal is made within the time limits specified,
notification shall be given in writing to the Police Chief; and
      (6)   Statement of the penalties provided for noncompliance with the
notice.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.050) (Ord. 89-08, passed - -)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person(s) in violation of this chapter shall be notified in writing by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and will have 15 days to remove the
vehicle. Any violations between 15 days and 30 days will be imposed a fine of a
minimum of $100 up to a maximum of $500. All violations over 30 days shall be
removed by agents of the town at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 8.28.030)
CHAPTER 95: LITTERING; LOT CLEANLINESS
Section
Littering
95.01   Definitions
95.02   Littering prohibited
95.03   Prevention of scattering
95.04   Upsetting or tampering with receptacles
95.05   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter
95.06   Owner to maintain private premises
95.07   Littering from vehicles
95.08   Litter in parks
95.09   Posting notices prohibited
95.10   Construction sites
95.11   Loading and unloading docks
95.12   Parking lots
95.13   Police Chief may enforce rules
95.14   Clearing of litter from open private property by town
Lot Cleanliness
95.25   Definitions
95.26   Weeds, brush and the like; declared nuisance; removal or abatement
required
95.27   Removal by town authorized; collection of costs
95.28   Notice to owner to remove
95.29   Work may be done by town upon request
95.30   Cleanliness and sanitation of premises
 
95.99   Penalty
LITTERING
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the use of the
property by the owner, without either the intention of transferring rights to
the property to another or of resuming the use of the property.
   ANIMAL, DEAD. See DEAD ANIMAL.
   APPLIANCES. Those mechanical devices used in households and/or commercial
establishments to perform various tasks including, but not limited to, washing
clothes, drying clothes, washing eating and cooking utensils, refrigerating
foodstuffs, freezing foodstuffs, cleaning or vacuuming flooring materials or
cooking foodstuffs.
   BIODEGRADABLE. Material capable of being converted from its current form to
an elemental form by the actions of microorganisms.
   COLLECTOR. Any person, firm, co-partner, association, business entity or
corporation engaged in the collection or transportation of solid waste within
town or any governmental unit, political subdivision or agency thereof engaging
in the collection or transportation of solid waste within town.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any handbill that promotes, offers for sale, seeks
funds for or solicits the exchange of anything of value for another item with
value.
   COMMON NUISANCE. A condition or occurrence prejudicial to the health,
comfort, safety, property, sense of decency or morals of a reasonable person
resulting either from an act not warranted by law or the neglect of a duty
imposed by law.
   CONSTRUCTION, DEMOLITION AND LAND-CLEARING WASTE. Any type of solid waste
resulting from land clearing operations, any improvement to real or personal
property or the destruction, demolition or removal of any structure,
improvement or building on/to real or personal property.
   DEAD ANIMAL. Any non-human creature whose life-sustaining biological
functions are no longer detectable through customary and ordinary means. This
shall include, but is not limited to, livestock, dogs, cats, horses, any
creature maintained as a household pet, birds, chickens, turkeys, fowl, wild
beasts and waterfowl.
   DHEC. The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   GARBAGE. All organic or inorganic material remaining as a result of the
consumption or use of products or natural resources, manufacturing processes,
or the preparation, storage or handling of food. It shall also include
household solid waste materials, tree cuttings, leaves, garden vegetation or
other types of trash. It shall not include human or animal feces.
   HANDBILL. Any printed, copied or written information placed upon material,
distributed to the public through any means of dissemination and that
advocates, promotes, endorses, informs, sells, draws attention to, encourages
participation in, advertises or in any manner encourages the belief in,
participation in, donation to, sale of or position of any idea, expression,
belief, product, manufactured good, item for consumption, invention, artifact,
service, benefit, gathering, assembly, meeting, viewpoint, position, concert,
open-air assembly, gift, donation or any other purpose.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any waste, combination of wastes or residue resulting
from a manufacturing or product preparation process consisting of solid,
liquid, contained gaseous or semisolid form which, due to its quantity,
concentration physical, chemical or biological characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or
otherwise managed. Such wastes may include, but are not limited to, those which
are persistent in nature, assimilated or concentrated in tissue or which
generate pressure through decomposition, heat or other means of chemical or
physical breakdown. The term does not include solid or dissolved in sewage or
solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial
discharges which are origination point sources subject to state or federal
permits.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, gaseous, solid or other waste substance, or a
combination thereof, resulting from any process of industry, manufacturing,
trade or business or from the development of any natural resource.
   JUNK. Any material appliance, vehicle, non-consumable household item that is
discarded or is in a state of disrepair precluding further use of the item in
its normal and ordinary application.
   JUNKYARD. Real property that is used to store junk, as defined herein, and
includes, but is not limited to, storage of scrap metals, vehicles, parts of
vehicles and parts of vehicles for resale.
   LITTER. All waste material, including but not limited to, disposable
packaging or containers, trash, garbage or refuse, generated as a result of
logging, forest product production or farming, which are improperly disposed of
and exposed to public view.
   NON-COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any handbill not a commercial handbill.
   PERSON. A citizen, resident or visitor to town who is a natural being or any
entity created by a state or nation and is recognized at law as state-created
entity.
   PREMISES. A defined portion of real estate including buildings, portions of
buildings, appurtenances, fixtures thereon.
   PRIVATE INDUSTRY. Any individual, operation, business entity or organization
involved in a manufacturing activity, whether such activity is performed by
hand or with machinery.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real property whose fee simple absolute interest is held
by an individual, business entity or some entity recognized at law as capable
of maintaining a fee simple absolute interest in real property and is not a
political subdivision or entity of The United States of America, The State of
South Carolina, town or the municipalities located in town. This shall include,
but is not limited to, yards, grounds, walkways, driveways, entrances and
passageways, parking areas, working areas, storage areas, and vacant lots,
bodies of water or recreational facilities.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Real property whose fee simple absolute interest is held by
a political subdivision or entity of The United States of America, The State of
South Carolina, town or the municipalities located in town. This shall include,
but is not limited to, streets, roads, rights-of-way, medians, sidewalks,
alleys and other public ways, public parking lots, parks, grounds, lots,
recreation facilities, waterways, beaches, rivers, bodies of water, or drainage
systems.
   RECEPTACLE. A watertight container made of any material of equal or greater
strength than metal or heavy duty plastic with a tight fitting covering capable
of containing the contents from being carried away or deposited by the elements
of nature upon any public or private property and used for the storage or
disposal of solid waste.
   REFUSE. All putrefaction or non-putrescible solid waste (except human or
animal body waste) including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, residue
collected as a result of street cleaning, dead animals, yard clippings or
commercial or industrial solid waste.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid was, consisting of both combustible and non-
combustible waste including, but not limited to, paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, bricks, glass, bedding, crockery, automobiles, household appliances or
litter of any other kind.
   SALVAGE. Something saved from destruction or waste, including, but not
limited to, discarded or damaged materials which is to be put to any further
end use.
   SALVAGE YARD. Real property used to store materials saved from destruction
or waste, including, but not limited to, discarded or damaged materials, which
is to be put to further end use.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of solid waste on land without
creating environmental damage, nuisance or a hazard to public health and
safety.
   SCAVENGE. Uncontrolled or unauthorized recovery of discarded solid waste
materials.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, litter, rubbish or any other waste resulting
from industrial, commercial, agricultural or household activities not
disposable by means of a sewage system operated in accordance with state and
federal regulations.
   TRASH. Any non-putrescible, combustible or noncombustible item of solid
waste that will not fit properly into an approved garbage container.
   UNAUTHORIZED ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE. The storage or accumulation on any
premises of solid wastes, as defined herein, in such a manner as to create
unsanitary conditions, fire hazards, offensive or obnoxious odors, insect
breeding places, harboring places for rodents, be a nuisance to the public or
in any other way adversely affect the health, safety, sanitation or welfare of
the public.
   UNSIGHTLY GROWTH. This includes any growth of grass, weeds, or herbaceous or
woody plant growth, other than trees or shrubs, that is uncultivated and
exceeds 12 inches in length.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.010) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 10-22-2018)
§ 95.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the town, except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.020) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in a manner as to prevent litter from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.030) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 UPSETTING OR TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.040) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.050) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.060) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partially loaded truck or other
vehicle within the town unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited
upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person drive or move
any vehicle or truck within the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto
or deposit in any public place or private premises mud, dirt, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.070) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 LITTER IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the town, except in
receptacles and in a manner that the litter shall be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises.
   (B)   Where receptacles are not provided, all litter shall be removed from
the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of
elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.080) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public place, except
as may be authorized or required by law. No person, except the owner or tenant,
shall post any notice on private property, without the permission of the owner
or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.090) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.100) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place
or other private premises.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.110) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. The premises shall include, but
not be limited to, such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide,
in an easily accessible location, a minimum of one refuse container for every
50 parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use the litter receptacles, as herein above
provided, for the purposes intended and it is unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit upon any parking lot any litter.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.120) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 POLICE CHIEF MAY ENFORCE RULES.
   The Police Chief is authorized to investigate any complaints or violations
of this section and is empowered to enforce federal, state and local standards
regarding fire prevention, pollution control, public safety and health.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.130)
§ 95.14 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY TOWN.
   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense thereof as a lien upon the property to be collected shall
be in accordance with the state statutes. The Police Chief shall be responsible
for the implementation of this enforcement program.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.140)
LOT CLEANLINESS
§ 95.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRUSH. All trees and shrubs under seven feet in height which are not
cultivated and cared for by the person(s) owning or controlling the premises.
   RUBBISH. All refuse, rejected tin cans, old vessels of all sorts, useless
litter, discarded clothing and textiles and all other things naturally included
in the term.
   WEEDS. All rank or uncultivated vegetable growth or matter which is grown to
more than one foot in height or which may give rise to unpleasant odors or
noxious vapors, or which is liable to become an unwholesome or decaying mass or
a breeding place for mosquitos or vermin.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.010) (Ord. 90-01, passed - -)
§ 95.26 WEEDS, BRUSH AND THE LIKE; DECLARED NUISANCE; REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT
REQUIRED.
   Whenever weeds, brush, rubbish or trash shall cover or partly cover the
surface of any lot or premises, whether improved or unimproved, situated in the
town, the weeds, brush or trash, or any of them, shall constitute a public
nuisance, the prompt abatement of which is declared to be a public necessity.
Person(s) owning or controlling the property shall prevent the nuisances or
cause prompt removal or abatement of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.020) (Ord. 90-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 REMOVAL BY TOWN AUTHORIZED; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   In the event that the owner of any property shall fail to remove therefrom
all weeds, brush, rubbish or trash, after notice given as provided in this
chapter, the town may clean the property and place the same in a safe and
presentable condition at the expense of the owner and assess the cost for such
as a lien against the property by filing a statement of cost incurred with the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and thereafter proceed with the collection of the
cost under the lien in the same manner as now provided for the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.030) (Ord. 90-01, passed - -)
§ 95.28 NOTICE TO OWNER TO REMOVE.
   (A)   When any nuisance described in §
95.26 comes to the knowledge of the Police Chief or his or her designated
officer, he or she shall forthwith issue a written order identifying the lot,
block or premises in question and require the owner of the property or the
person in charge of the same to abate the nuisance by clearing the property of
weeds, brush, rubbish or trash within ten days after the date of service of the
order. The order shall further give notice that the town may, upon the failure
of the owner to act, clean the premises as provided in §
95.27, and that the cost of the cleaning, if done by the town, shall become a
lien upon the property pursuant to §
95.27. The order giving the notice shall further provide that the owner may, in
writing, request a hearing before the Municipal Judge as to why a lien should
not be placed against the property. The request for a hearing must come not
later than 15 days after the service of the order.
   (B)   Each order shall be delivered by the Chief of Police or his or her
designated officer of the town to the addressee of the order in person if he or
she can be found, but if the addressee can not be found after a diligent
search, or if any person owning or controlling the property be a nonresident of
the town, then it shall be sufficient service on and notice to each owner of
the property for the police officer to cause the order to be published three
consecutive times in any newspaper of general circulation published in the
town, or it shall in any case be sufficient service of the order on the owner
of the property if the order be forwarded by registered mail to the owner, and
a return receipt from the owner be received and filed by the police officer.
The personal service of the written order on any resident, agent of any
nonresident or absent owner of the property, where the agent collects rentals
or has control of the property, shall constitute service of the order on the
owner as well as the agent. Service of the order on a part owner of any
property shall constitute notice to all owners.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.040) (Ord. 90-01, passed - -)
§ 95.29 WORK MAY BE DONE BY TOWN UPON REQUEST.
   Upon the written request by the owner or person in control of any lot or
parcel of land within the town limits which in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter, he or she may enter upon an agreement with the town to have
the town clear the lot(s) for owners, the charge of services to be paid by the
property owner into the town treasury.
   (A)   Land clearing of trees, stumps, brush, stones and other obstacles
(building structures etc.) from the owner or person in control of any lot or
parcel of land within the town limits
   (B)   The rate basic rate will be set by the Council that would be paid
prior to service.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.050) (Ord. 90-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-03, passed 10-22-
2018)
§ 95.30 CLEANLINESS AND SANITATION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Responsibility for litter; generally. The responsibility for the
removal of litter from property or collection receptacles shall be upon the
owner and/or occupier of the property where the receptacle is located. Where
litter has traveled onto property of another through the forces of nature, the
owner and or occupier of property of origin is responsible if the violator of
this section who is responsible for such litter is known and subject to county
jurisdiction.
      (1)   Grass clippings, leaves and limbs (limbs/branches should not be
longer than six feet and no tree trunks will be removed).
         (a)   Place your grass clippings and or leaves into lawn bags and
placed them at least three feet away from other obstacles (such as mailboxes,
utility poles, and automobiles) placed on your property near the sidewalk or
curbing. DO NOT block street traffic or sidewalk traffic.
         (b)   Limbs should be separated from leaves.
      (2)   Yard waste should NOT be placed in the street, gutter, ditch,
sidewalk, nor on properties other than the premises of the depositor.
      (3)   Remodeling/home repair. All building material, refuse or debris
resulting from home repairs, remodeling, or any kind of construction shall be
moved by the hired contractor, owner of the property, or person completing the
work.
      (4)   Grass clippings, leaves and limbs service will be weekly, a
schedule will be determined by the Council in a resolution.
      (5)   Work order are require for grass clippings, leaves and limbs to be
picked up.
      (6)   Littering citation issuance if street traffic or sidewalk is
blocked with the grass clippings, leaves or limbs.
      (7)   Grass clippings, leaves or limbs to be picked up by the town, a
basic rate will be set by the Council in a resolution.
   (B)   Bulk waste removal.
      (1)   Items include: furniture, carpeting, small appliances, large toys,
mattresses, box springs or other large items that do not fit into your garbage
cart.
      (2)   Other collection items "white goods" include: large metal
appliances such as washers, dryers, stoves, refrigerators, etc.
      (3)   We DO NOT accept compressed gas containers such as propane tanks or
bottles.
      (4)   We DO NOT accept any fluid liquid container such as gas, oil cans/
drums, or paint.
      (5)   For the safety of children, please remove doors from all items
before placing items at curb.
      (6)   Bulk waste removal to be picked up by the town, a basic rate will
be set by the Council in a resolution.
   (C)   Penalties. The penalties for violation of this section shall be
punishable under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 10-22-2018)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or entity including but not limited to, firm or
corporation, violating any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.14 shall be fined not more than $500 each day and/or imprisoned not to
exceed 30 days for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8.32.150)
   (C)   Any owner, lessee or occupant whether a natural person or corporation,
and any agent, servant or representative, or employee of the owner, lessee or
occupant, including every person having ownership or control of any lot or
block, or any part of interest in the same, who shall allow or permit to remain
any weeds, brush, rubbish or trash on any property, as per §§
95.25 through
95.29, and who shall fail and refuse to clear the premises of the weeds, brush,
rubbish or trash within ten days after the issuance of personal service on him
or her of the order as herein provided, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day of 24 hours subsequent to the limit specified in this
section during which the failure or refusal continues shall be deemed and taken
as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.36.060)
(Ord. 90-01, passed - -; Ord. 96-03, passed - -; Ord. - -, passed - -)
CHAPTER 96: RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Section
96.01   Hours closed to the public
96.02   Unlawful acts
96.03   Exceptions
96.04   Effective date
§ 96.01 HOURS CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, all city parks, playgrounds,
recreation centers, ball diamonds, tennis courts, athletic or recreational
facilities, greenbelts or an other areas, real property or other premises
designated for public recreational use by the city (recreational facilities)
shall be closed daily to the general public from one hour after the official
sunset to official sunrise. OFFICIAL SUNRISE and SUNSET as defined by the
National Weather Service for Calhoun Falls, South Carolina and published by
local newspapers.
   (B)   The Chief of Police for the town shall cause notice to be placed at
the main entrances of recreational facilities notifying the general public of
the hours that the recreational facility is open for use by the general public.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 9-16-2010)
§ 96.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain upon the premises of any
recreational facility during the hours that such are closed to the public after
being warned to leave by an officer of the Calhoun Falls Police Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the premises of any
recreational facility during the hours that such are closed to the public after
having been warned to leave any recreational facility within six months
preceding the date of the offense.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 9-16-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply to:
   (A)   Persons whose presence is authorized by town contract, agreement,
lease of otherwise or by a permit issued by the Director of Parks and
Recreation, or his or her designee, in compliance with all other town
ordinances, rules or regulations.
   (B)   Persons remaining in the recreational facility after the time for
closing who are participating in or attending events, activities or programs
previously scheduled or authorized by the Parks and Recreation Department
because the event, activity or program has not concluded.
   (C)   Persons making use of any public way located through a recreational
facility; however, such persons must confine themselves to the limits of the
public way.
   (D)   Persons who are actually engaged at such time in the official business
of any city, county, state or the United States or any agency or department
thereof.
   (E)   Instructional events or town functions scheduled through Town Hall.
The town reserves the right to refuse events or functions which may lead to
physical violence or confrontation.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 9-16-2010)
§ 96.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon second and final reading by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 9-16-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
   
111.   PAWNBROKERS, JUNK SHOPS, SECOND-HAND GOODS
   
112.   TAXICABS
   
113.   FOOD AND FOOD PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
110.01   License required
110.02   Definitions
110.03   Purpose and duration
110.04   Business license tax; refund
110.05   Registration required
110.06   Deductions, exemptions, and charitable organizations
110.07   False application unlawful
110.08   Display and transfer
110.09   Administration of chapter
110.10   Inspection and audits
110.11   Assessments; payment under protest; appeal
110.12   Delinquent license taxes; partial payment
110.13   Notices
110.14   Denial of license
110.15   Suspension or revocation of license
110.16   Appeals to Council or its designee
110.17   Consent, franchise, or license required for use of streets
110.18   Confidentiality
110.19   Violations
110.20   Severability
110.21   Classification and rates
Appendix A:   Business License Rate Schedule
Appendix B:   2021 Business License Class Schedule by NAICS Code
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession, or activity engaged in with the object of gain,
benefit, or advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of the Town of
Calhoun Falls, South Carolina, is required to pay an annual license tax for the
privilege of doing business and obtain a business license as herein provided.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meaning ascribed herein. Defined terms are not capitalized when used
in this chapter unless the context otherwise requires.
   BUSINESS. Any business, calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged
in with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)
(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose that does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer, officer,
director, trustee, or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. That division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Calhoun Falls.
   DOMICILE. A principal place from which the trade or business of a licensee
is conducted, directed, or managed. For purposes of this chapter, a licensee
may be deemed to have more than one DOMICILE.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued, for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a domicile within
the municipality, business done within the municipality shall include all gross
receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If the licensee does
not have a domicile within the municipality, business done within the
municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received or accrued
within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a business license
tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee’s gross income for the
purpose of computing the tax within the municipality must be reduced by the
amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or municipality and
fully reported to the municipality. Gross income for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds, or funds that are the property of a third party. The value of bartered
goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in gross income. The gross
receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by
inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the
South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina Department of
Insurance, or other government agencies. In calculating gross income for
certain businesses, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Gross income for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered gross income.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code § 38-7-20, gross
income for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   Gross income for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of (a) gross
revenues or receipts received or accrued from business done at the location,
(b) the amount of income allocated and apportioned to that location by the
business for purposes of the business’s state income tax return, or (c) the
amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost center of the
business. Licensees reporting gross income under this provision shall have the
burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by satisfactory
records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting a
manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this chapter.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary license official, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate license officials to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under S.C. Code Title
58, Ch. 9, Art. 20 and S.C. Code Title 38, Ch. 7 and Ch. 45.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina.
   NAICS. The North American Industry Classification System for the United
States published under the auspices of the Federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company, cooperative non-profit membership, corporation,
joint venture, association, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
holding company, or other group or combination acting as a unit, in the
singular or plural, and the agent or employee having charge or control of a
business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this chapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege
tax. Except as set forth below for business licenses issued to contractors with
respect to specific construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued
for the 12-month period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for a
construction contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to expire
at the completion of the construction project; provided, any such business
license may require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount. The provisions of
this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from year to year as
amended by the Council.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.04 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX; REFUND.
   (A)   The required business license tax shall be paid for each business
subject hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
due date of April 30 in each year, except for those businesses in Rate Class 8
for which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in §
110.12 hereof, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1
without penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee’s gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee’s 12-month fiscal year preceding the due date, or on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one year. The business license tax for a new business must be
computed on the estimated probable gross income for the balance of the license
year. A business license related to construction contract projects may be
issued on a per-project basis, at the option of the taxpayer. No refund shall
be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before the June 1 immediately following the April
30 on which the payment was due and must be supported by adequate documentation
supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or deny the
refund request, and if approved shall issue the refund to the business, within
30 days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.05 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent, or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the
annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of
the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol, beer, or
wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of the
business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this chapter by the license official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property, and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation, and
payment of business license taxes through the business license tax portal
hosted and managed by the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office,
subject to the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal
availability or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from
existing business license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.06 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS, AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the ordinance by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The license official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this chapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if (1) any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization as
defined in this chapter, or (2) any net proceeds of operation, after necessary
expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose
as defined in this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond
fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee, or
person with ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a
necessary expense of operation.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.07 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.08 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the license official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his person or in a vehicle used in the business
readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the license official within
ten days after removal of the business to a new location and the license will
be valid at the new address upon written notification by the license official
and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the approval
of the license official for a change of address shall invalidate the license
and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a license. A
business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of controlling
interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and the
establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on old
business income.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The license official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect business license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations
and audits to ensure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the municipal attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.10 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
license official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections and to examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful
for any such person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
business license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided
herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of business license tax
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The license official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with the ordinance. Financial
information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed public
records, and the license official shall not release the amount of business
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.11 ASSESSMENTS; PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST; APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest, and appeals of assessment shall
be allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing an assessment, the license official
may examine such records of the business or any other available records as may
be appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical surveys as the
license official may deem appropriate to assess a business license tax and
penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The license official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for adjustment
of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided that for
particular types of business licenses, including without limitation for
business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under
S.C. Code Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20 and S.C. Code Title 38, Ch. 7 and Ch. 45,
the municipality, by separate ordinance, may establish a different procedure
and may delegate one or more rights, duties, and functions hereunder to the
Municipal Association of South Carolina.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.12 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES; PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct business license
tax, the license official shall impose and collect a late penalty of 5% of the
unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid.
Penalties shall not be waived. If any business license tax remains unpaid for
60 days after its due date, the license official shall report it to the
municipal attorney for appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the license official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.13 NOTICES.
   The license official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.14 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license official may deny a license to an applicant when the
license official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation,
false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has been convicted within the previous ten years of an offense
under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving dishonest
conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a business, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
      (6)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
      (7)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied,
suspended, or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the license official shall be subject to appeal as
herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the license official determines:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud,
misrepresentation, a false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression
of a material fact in the license application;
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any
tax or fee;
the license official may give written notice to the licensee or the person in
control of the business within the municipality by personal service or mail
that the license is suspended pending a single hearing before Council or its
designee for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should be upheld
and the license should be revoked.
   (B)   The written notice of suspension and proposed revocation shall state
the time and place at which the hearing is to be held, and shall contain a
brief statement of the reasons for the suspension and proposed revocation and a
copy of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.16 APPEALS TO COUNCIL OR ITS DESIGNEE.
   (A)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
110.11 hereof, which are governed by S.C. Code § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved
by a determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the license official may appeal the decision to the Council or its
designee by written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the
license official within ten days after service by mail or personal service of
the notice of determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation.
   (B)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial or other determination of
the license official and a hearing on a suspension and proposed revocation
shall be held by the Council or its designee within ten business days after
receipt of a request for appeal or service of a notice of suspension and
proposed revocation. The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular
or special meeting of the Council, or, if by designee of the Council, at a
hearing to be scheduled by the designee. The hearing may be continued to
another date by agreement of all parties. At the hearing, all parties shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to present testimony and evidence,
and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings shall be recorded and
transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting. The rules of evidence
and procedure prescribed by Council or its designee shall govern the hearing.
Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members present, or
the designee of Council if the hearing is held by the designee, shall render a
written decision based on findings of fact and conclusions on application of
the standards herein. The written decision shall be served, by personal service
or by mail, upon all parties or their representatives and shall constitute the
final decision of the municipality.
   (C)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council or its designee does not
effectuate a stay of that decision. The decision of the Council or its designee
shall be binding and enforceable unless overturned by an applicable appellate
court after a due and timely appeal.
   (D)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under S.C. Code Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20, and S.C. Code Title 38, Ch. 7
and Ch. 45, the municipality may establish a different procedure by ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.17 CONSENT, FRANCHISE, OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain,
or operate in, on, above, or under any street or public place under control of
the municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure, or facility for
utilities, communications, cablevision, or other purposes without a consent
agreement or franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that
prescribes the term, fees, and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.18 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.19 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs provided for
in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.20 SEVERABILITY.
   A determination that any portion of this chapter is invalid or unenforceable
shall not affect the remaining portions. To the extent of any conflict between
the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the South Carolina
Business License Tax Standardization Act, as codified at S.C. Code §§ 6-1-400
et seq., the standardization act shall control.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
§ 110.21 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
chapter shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule, designated as
Appendix A to this chapter, which may be amended from time to time by the
Council.
   (B)   The current business license class schedule is attached hereto as
Appendix B. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd year, the
municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized business
license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of South
Carolina and adopted by the Director of the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal
Affairs Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised business license
class schedule shall then be appended to this chapter as a replacement
Appendix B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, sub-sector, group, or industry. The business license class
schedule (
Appendix B) is a tool for classification and not a limitation on businesses
subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most recent
version of the business license class schedule adopted by the Council that most
specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the business.
The license official shall have the authority to make the determination of the
classification most specifically applicable to a subject business.
   (D)   A copy of the class schedule and rate schedule shall be filed in the
office of the municipal clerk.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE RATE SCHEDULE
Rate Class Income: $0 - $2,000 Base Rate Income Over $2,000
                                         Rate per $1,000 or Fraction Thereof
Rate Class Income: $0 - $2,000 Base Rate Income Over $2,000
                                         Rate per $1,000 or Fraction Thereof
1          $35                           $1.20
2          $40                           $1.25
3          $45                           $1.30
4          $50                           $1.35
5          $55                           $1.40
6          $60                           $1.45
7          $65                           $1.50
8.1        $35                           $1.10
8.2        Set by state statute
8.3        MASC Telecommunications
8.4        MASC Insurance
8.51       $12.50 + $12.50 per machine (See Class 8.51 description)
8.52       $12.50 + $180 per machine (See Class 8.51 description)
8.6        $5 -OR- $12.50 per table (See Class 8.6 description)
 
NON-RESIDENT RATES
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all taxes and rates shall be doubled
for nonresidents and itinerants having no fixed principal place of business
within the municipality.
DECLINING RATES
   Declining rates apply in all classes for gross income in excess of
$1,000,000, unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter.
 
Gross Income in $ Millions Percent of Class Rate for Each Additional $1,000
0 - 1                      100%
1 - 2                      90%
2 - 3                      80%
3 - 4                      70%
Over 4                     60%
 
CLASS 8 RATES
   Each NAICS number designates a separate subclassification. The businesses in
this section are treated as separate and individual subclasses due to
provisions of state law, regulatory requirements, service burdens, tax
equalization considerations, and other factors that are deemed sufficient to
require individually determined rates. In accordance with state law, the
municipality also may provide for reasonable subclassifications for rates,
described by an NAICS sector, subsector, or industry, that are based on
particularized considerations as needed for economic stimulus or for the
enhanced or disproportionate demands on municipal services or infrastructure.
   Non-resident rates do not apply except where indicated.
8.1   NAICS 230000 – Contractors, Construction, All Types [Non-resident rates
do not apply].
   Resident rates, for contractors having a permanent place of business within
the municipality:
      Minimum on first $2,000     $30, plus
      Each additional 1,000     $0.35
   Non-resident rates do not apply to contractors that do not have a permanent
place of business within the municipality. A trailer at the construction site
or structure in which the contractor temporarily resides is not a permanent
place of business under this chapter.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all state and
municipal qualification examination and trade license requirements have been
met. Each contractor shall post a sign in plain view on each job identifying
the contractor with the job.
   Sub-contractors shall be licensed on the same basis as general or prime
contractors for the same job. No deductions shall be made by a general or prime
contractor for value of work performed by a sub-contractor.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all performance and
indemnity bonds required by the Building Code have been filed and approved.
Zoning permits must be obtained when required by the Zoning Ordinance.
   Each prime contractor shall file with the License Official a list of sub-
contractors furnishing labor or materials for each project.
   For licenses issued on a per-job basis, the total tax for the full amount of
the contract shall be paid prior to commencement of work and shall entitle the
contractor to complete the job without regard to the normal license expiration
date. An amended report shall be filed for each new job and the appropriate
additional license fee per $1,000 of the contract amount shall be paid prior to
commencement of new work. Only one base tax shall be paid in a license year.
Licensees holding a per-job license shall file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount.
8.2   NAICS 482 – Railroad Companies (See S.C. Code § 12-23-210).
8.3   NAICS 517311, 517312 – Telephone Companies.
   With respect to “retail telecommunications services” as defined in S.C. Code
§ 58-9-2200, the municipality participates in a collections program
administered by the Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality
has approved participation in the collections program by separate ordinance
(the “Telecommunications Collections Ordinance”). The rates, terms, conditions,
dates, penalties, appeals process, and other details of the business license
applicable to retail telecommunications services are set forth in the
Telecommunications Collections Ordinance.
8.4   NAICS 5241 and 5242 – Insurance Companies and Brokers.
   Independent agents, brokers, and their employees are subject to a business
license tax based on their natural class. With respect to insurers subject to
license fees and taxes under S.C. Code Chapter 7 of Title 38 and to brokers
under S.C. Code Chapter 45 of Title 38, the municipality participates in a
collections program administered by the Municipal Association of South
Carolina. The municipality has approved participation in the collections
program by separate ordinance (the “Insurers and Brokers Collections
Ordinance”). The rates, terms, conditions, dates, penalties, appeals process,
and other details of the business license applicable to insurers and brokers
are set forth in the Insurers and Brokers Collections Ordinance.
8.51   NAICS 713120 – Amusement Machines, coin operated (except gambling).
Music machines, juke boxes, kiddy rides, video games, pin tables with levers,
and other amusement machines with or without free play feature licensed by S.C.
Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code §12-21-2720(A)(1) and (A)(2) [Type
I and Type II].
   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code
§12-21-2746:
      Per machine      $12.50, plus
      Business license     $12.50
   Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by the state
as an operator pursuant to § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass 8.51.
8.52   NAICS 713290 – Amusement Machines, coin operated, non-payout. Amusement
machines of the non-payout type or in-line pin game licensed by S.C. Department
of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(3) [Type III].
   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-21-2720(B):
      Per machine      $180, plus
      Business license   $12.50
   Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by the state
as an operator pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass
8.52.
8.6   NAICS 713990 – Billiard or Pool Rooms, all types. (A) Pursuant to S.C.
Code § 12-21-2746, license tax of $5 per table measuring less than 3½ feet wide
and 7 feet long, and $12.50 per table longer than that; plus, (B) with respect
to gross income from the entire business in addition to the tax authorized by
state law for each table, the town shall charge the tax rate on gross income
applicable to the business based on the business license classification
schedule in
Appendix B.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
APPENDIX B: 2021 BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
NAICS Sector/Subsector Industry Sector Class
NAICS Sector/Subsector Industry Sector                                  Class
11                     Agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing       2.00
21                     Mining                                           4.00
23                     Construction                                     8.10
31-33                  Manufacturing                                    2.00
42                     Wholesale trade                                  1.00
44-45                  Retail trade                                     1.00
48-49                  Transportation and warehousing                   2.00
482                    Rail transportation                              8.20
51                     Information                                      4.00
517311                 Wired telecommunications carriers                8.30
517312                 Wireless telecommunications carriers (except     8.30
                       satellite)
52                     Finance and insurance                            7.00
5241                   Insurance carriers                               8.40
5242                   Insurance brokers for non-admitted insurance     8.40
                       carriers
53                     Real estate and rental and leasing               7.00
54                     Professional, scientific, and technical services 5.00
55                     Management of companies                          7.00
56                     Administrative and support and waste management  4.00
                       and remediation services
61                     Educational services                             4.00
62                     Health care and social assistance                4.00
71                     Arts, entertainment, and recreation              3.00
713120                 Amusement parks and arcades (per machine)        8.51
713290                 Nonpayout amusement machines (per machine)       8.52
713990                 All other amusement and recreational industries  8.60
                       (pool tables)
721                    Accommodation                                    3.00
722                    Food services and drinking places                1.00
81                     Other services                                   5.00
 
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 11-22-2021)
CHAPTER 111: PAWNBROKERS, JUNK SHOPS, SECOND-HAND GOODS
Section
111.01   Licensing and regulation
111.02   Records open to inspection by authorized persons
111.03   Records of second-hand dealers
111.04   License required to operate
111.05   Bond required by licensee
111.06   Restrictions regarding dealing
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSING AND REGULATION.
   (A)   The provisions of the state law dealing with pawn brokers, with
particular reference to S.C. Code §§ 40-39-10 to 40-39-130, and the provisions
hereinafter adopted are cumulative to state laws and, if there is any conflict
therein, the state law shall prevail.
   (B)   Every person who shall obtain a pawn broker’s license shall place a
sign over the entrance to his or her shop, showing that he or she is licensed
and showing his or her name. Every person shall keep a book in which shall be
fairly written, at the time of any loan, an account and description of the
goods, articles or things pawned or pledged, the amount of money loaned
thereon, the time of pledging them, the charges or the rate of interest to be
paid on the loan and the name and residence of the person pawning or pledging
the goods, articles or things.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010)
§ 111.02 RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION BY AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   The books and records of the pawn shop shall, at all times, be open to the
inspection of the Mayor of the town and the Chief of Police of the town or to
any person that they may authorize to inspect the books.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.020)
§ 111.03 RECORDS OF SECOND-HAND DEALERS.
   Every person dealing in the purchase and sale of second-hand clothes and
second-hand jewelry shall keep a list of the articles purchased and sold and
the list shall be available to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.030)
§ 111.04 LICENSE REQUIRED TO OPERATE.
   The keeper of every shop shall obtain from the town a public license to do
so and the same shall not be transferable. The cost of the license shall be
pursuant to §
110.32.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.040)
§ 111.05 BOND REQUIRED BY LICENSEE.
   The person applying for license to operate such a shop, as described in this
chapter, shall deposit with the Town Clerk/Treasurer the price of the license
and, upon the license being granted, shall execute a bond in the penal sum of
$1,000, with two sureties, to be approved by Council, condition for the
faithful observation of this chapter and other laws.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.050)
§ 111.06 RESTRICTIONS REGARDING DEALING.
   No pawn broker shall deal with any minor, in any manner, without the written
permission of the parents of the minor.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.060) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person, having obtained a license, who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, as shall every
person keeping a shop and carrying on business therein, without having first
obtained a license to do so.
   (B)   On conviction of any violation of any of the regulations of this
chapter by any employee or owner of any pawn shop, junk shop or dealers in
second-hand articles, the license of the shop shall be revoked. The Police
Department of the town shall close the shop temporarily, from the time of any
alleged violation, until a hearing shall be had on same.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.070)
CHAPTER 112: TAXICABS
Section
112.01   License required to operate
112.02   Jurisdiction of Town Council
112.03   Inspection by authorized person
112.04   Owner must show proof of insurance; filing proof
112.05   Restrictions for issuance of license
112.06   Markings
112.07   Conditions
112.08   Designated stands
112.09   Rates
112.10   Passenger restrictions
112.11   Driver restrictions
112.12   Age limits for applicants
112.13   Revocation of license
112.14   License fee
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED TO OPERATE.
   No taxicab shall be licensed to do business in or use the streets of the
town unless there shall first have been obtained from the Town Council a
certificate of public convenience and necessity therefor.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.010)
§ 112.02 JURISDICTION OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council may, when, in its judgment, the public interest and
safety requires it, issue or refuse to issue to any applicant a certificate of
public convenience and necessity or, upon notice and after hearing, may for
like cause revoke any certificate theretofore issued.
   (B)   No person shall be licensed to operate a taxicab, or be issued a
license for the operation of a taxicab business, unless the applicant be of
good moral character.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.020)
§ 112.03 INSPECTION BY AUTHORIZED PERSON.
   No taxicab shall be operated on or over the streets or public ways of the
town until it has been inspected and approved for licensing by the Chief of
Police or his or her designated assistant.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 OWNER MUST SHOW PROOF OF INSURANCE; FILING PROOF.
   (A)   Any owner, before any license is issued for the operation of a
taxicab, must file with the Town Council an insurance policy covering the
operation of each vehicle in some indemnity or casualty company authorized to
write the insurance and doing business in the state in the amount of $10,000,
covering injuries to a single person, with $50,000 total coverage and $5,000
property damage at Council discretion.
   (B)   A certified copy of the policy shall meet this requirement, and the
policy shall be for a period of not less than one year, and shall contain the
provision that the same shall not be canceled by the insurer until after five-
days’ written notice of the intention to cancel is given to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (C)   No taxicab shall be operated on the streets of the town without the
insurance.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.040)
§ 112.05 RESTRICTIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license to operate a taxicab shall be granted to any person other
than the bona fide owner of the vehicle and the certificate of title must be
exhibited to the Town Clerk/Treasurer before a license can be issued, and every
taxicab business under the provision of this law shall be carried on by the
person to whom the license is issued, and by the person in whose name the
contract of insurance required is written.
   (B)   No license to operate a taxicab shall be transferable or assignable.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person other than for the full-time
operation of a taxicab business.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.050)
§ 112.06 MARKINGS.
   Taxicabs shall be designated as “TAXI” in some place on the taxicab, with
the name of the owner appearing thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Every taxicab operated in the town shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition and shall be swept and dusted at least once a day.
   (B)   Every taxicab operated in the town shall be kept in a state of repair
as may be necessary to provide for the safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 DESIGNATED STANDS.
   The Town Council may designate stands for taxicabs.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.080)
§ 112.09 RATES.
   The rates to be charged for taxi service shall be as established by the Town
Council and the rates may be changed by the Town Council when this is deemed
advisable.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.090)
§ 112.10 PASSENGER RESTRICTIONS.
   No driver of a taxicab shall convey a person for the purpose of committing a
crime or for the purpose of committing an immoral act.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 DRIVER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to act as a driver of a taxicab, as herein
defined, or to be in charge of any taxicab without having a permit therefor
issued by the Police Department; also, the driver of a taxicab must be licensed
by the state.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 AGE LIMITS FOR APPLICANTS.
   Every applicant for a permit must be at least 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any driver’s permit granted under the terms of this chapter may be revoked
by the Chief of Police for violation of the provisions of any law after notice
to the permittee in writing citing him or her to appear before the Chief of
Police and show cause why his or her permit should not be revoked. That his or
her driver’s license has been revoked by the state; that he or she has wilfully
or persistently violated the provisions of the ordinances of the town; or that
it has been determined by the medical profession to be unfit physically or
morally to operate a taxicab in the town shall be deemed sufficient reason for
revocation of permit.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.130)
§ 112.14 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee to operate a taxicab shall be as set out in §
110.32.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.140)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD AND FOOD PRODUCTS
Section
113.01   Regulations for the operation of a restaurant
113.02   Application procedure
113.03   Inspection and issuance of permit
113.04   Transferability of permit
113.05   Revocation
§ 113.01 REGULATIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF A RESTAURANT.
   No person shall operate a restaurant within the corporate limits of the town
without having first obtained a permit as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Any person desiring to conduct or operate a restaurant shall make
application to the Health Officer for a permit. The application shall be made
on a printed form to be furnished by the Board of Health and shall set forth
the name of the applicant and the location of the building to be used as a
restaurant.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.020)
§ 113.03 INSPECTION AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon the filing of any application for a permit, as provided for in §
113.02, the place therein described shall be inspected by the Health Officer or
a Health Inspector and, if found in a sanitary condition and suitable for the
purpose for which it is to be used, the Health Officer shall register the
applicant in a proper record to be kept for the purpose and issue to him or her
a permit.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.030)
§ 113.04 TRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT.
   The permit required by this chapter shall not be transferable. Should it be
desired to move the restaurant from the original location, the consent of the
Board of Health must be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 REVOCATION.
   All permits granted pursuant to this chapter may, at any time, be revoked by
the Board of Health for the persistent, repeated or willful violation of any
provision of this code or other law or ordinance governing the operation of
restaurants.
(Prior Code, § 8.04.050)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
131.   AMUSEMENTS
   
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
CHAPTER 130: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
130.01   Retail beer, ale, porter and wine establishments
130.02   Sale of beer, ale, porter and wine
130.03   Consumption of alcoholic beverages
130.04   Sale and manufacture of alcoholic beverages
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RETAIL BEER, ALE, PORTER AND WINE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The town adopts, in their entirety, all provisions of state law
pertaining to the sale of beer, ale, porter and wine, with particular reference
to S.C. Code Ch. 61-6, as amended; and, the further regulations herein
prescribed shall not conflict, in any way, with the state laws and shall be
cumulative thereto and additions thereto.
   (B)   The regulations and laws herein prescribed are supplemental to the
previous ordinances and laws providing for regulations of retail beer
establishments previously adopted by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -)
§ 130.02 SALE OF BEER, ALE, PORTER AND WINE.
   No sales of beer, ale, porter and wine shall be made between the hours of
12:00 a.m. Saturday and the sunrise Monday morning, between the hours of 1:00
a.m. Tuesday and the sunrise Tuesday morning, between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
Wednesday and the sunrise Wednesday morning and the same for Thursday and
Friday and that all establishments within the town limits selling beer, ale,
porter and wine shall prohibit any consumption of the beverages during the
prescribed hours; and, that the establishments shall close and make no sales of
any beer, ale, porter and wine during the prohibited hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It is unlawful for any person to drink any beer or carry open containers of
beer or other intoxicating beverages on any public street, school property,
recreational property, property owned or operated by the town or any public
property, or in any public place unless the place is licensed for the sale of
beer and then only inside of the place or in parked cars on the grounds of the
public place.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.030) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 SALE AND MANUFACTURE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful within the town for any person to manufacture for sale,
store for sale, keep for sale, receive for sale, have in possession for sale,
transport for sale or to sell, barter or exchange any alcoholic liquors other
than a dealer duly licensed for those purposes by the state.
   (B)   It is unlawful within the town for any person to manufacture, store,
keep, receive, have in possession, transport, sell, barter or exchange any
alcoholic liquors in a bottle or other package without having affixed thereto
the revenue stamps required by the state.
   (C)   It is unlawful within the town for any person to purchase or otherwise
procure any alcoholic liquors in a bottle or other package without having
affixed thereto the revenue stamps required by the state.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.040) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished pursuant to
the South Carolina state code.
CHAPTER 131: AMUSEMENTS
Section
131.01   Billiards or pocket billiards; minors
131.02   Gambling, maintaining faro banks, game tables and the like
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 BILLIARDS OR POCKET BILLIARDS; MINORS.
   (A)   Each and every minor desiring to visit or play billiards or pool in
any billiard room or pocket billiard room in the town must have the consent of
his or her parent or guardian to do so, which shall be accomplished by the
parent or guardian, along with the minor, going to the Town Hall and signing a
record book of permission, in addition to a card setting out the permission of
the parent or guardian for the minor to play billiards or pocket billiard
games. The book shall be retained at Town Hall and the card shall be delivered
to the proprietor of the billiard room or billiard rooms. The card shall be
returned to the minor by the proprietor, when requested.
   (B)   If any minor enters a billiard room or pool room accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian and the parent or guardian has not filed written
permission with the town, as aforesaid, then in that event the minor may only
remain in the billiard room so long as his or her parent or guardian remains
there.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 GAMBLING, MAINTAINING FARO BANKS, GAME TABLES AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person within the town to pay for money or other
things of value in any tavern or store or in any house used as a place of
gaming or in any barn, kitchen, stable, outhouse, street, highway, woods, field
or open place, at any game with cards or dice, or any gaming table, faro bank
or bank of the same or like kind, or other device for gambling by whatsoever
name it may be called nor shall anyone bet on any of the sides or hands of the
game.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.080) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating§
131.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.100)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE
Section
132.01   Disturbing schools; injuring school property
132.02   Disturbing or destroying town property
132.03   Loitering
132.04   Use of bows and arrows, slingshots and the like
132.05   Resisting or interfering with police officer
132.06   Handbills, signs and the like
132.07   Disorderly conduct
§ 132.01 DISTURBING SCHOOLS; INJURING SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person, at or near any schoolhouse or institution of
learning in the town, to engage or attract by conversation, signals, signs,
sounds, loitering in the neighborhood during school hours, or in any other
manner, the attention of any of the pupils or teachers of the schools or
institutions, to the disturbance of the same, or to the detriment of the
discipline thereof, or at any time to mutilate or disfigure by marking,
writing, cutting or otherwise, the fences and buildings of the schools or
institutions, or to post advertising matter of any kind whatsoever thereon.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 DISTURBING OR DESTROYING TOWN PROPERTY.
   Whoever shall maliciously, willfully or negligently cut, mutilate, deface or
otherwise injure any real or personal property belonging to the town, or used
for any public purpose and not belonging to the town, shall be held guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator's conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if
it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
§ 132.04 USE OF BOWS AND ARROWS, SLINGSHOTS AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person to shoot bows and arrows, or use slingshots or
any other device for throwing missiles, in any of the streets of the town and
the same shall be declared to be a nuisance, and any person offending herein
shall, on conviction before the Recorder, be liable to a fine or imprisonment
for each and every offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH POLICE OFFICER.
   Any person who shall resist or interfere with any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 HANDBILLS, SIGNS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to distribute, place, spread or scatter,
or cause to be distributed, placed, spread or scattered, any handbills,
posters, advertisements or any other paper or card or scraps of paper upon the
sidewalks, streets, front yards or gardens of the town or in the town.
   (B)   All signs to be erected or displayed in the town shall be erected only
after application has been made to the Town Clerk/Treasurer and approved.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to place, put up, attach to any building
or erect any cloth sign within the limits of the town without first applying
for and obtaining permission so to do from the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful to conduct oneself in a disorderly manner with the
purpose to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm or recklessly
creating a risk thereof by:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or threatening or in violent or tumultuous
behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture or display or addresses of abusive language to any person present; and/
or
      (3)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC means affecting or likely to
affect any person or persons in a place to which the public or a substantial
group has access; among the places included are highways, transport facilities,
schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or entertainment,
governmental buildings or any neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.080) (Ord. 96-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
   
151.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
150.01   Building Codes
150.02   Standards of construction
150.03   Improper maintenance of buildings or structures
150.04   Mobile homes
150.05   Building numbering
150.06   Vested rights to develop property
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   Codes adopted. The town adopts, by reference, the International
Building Code, 2006 Edition; National Electrical Code, 1987 Edition; Standard
Plumbing Code, 1988 Edition; Standard Mechanical Code, 1988 Edition; Standard
Gas Code, 1988 Edition; Standard Housing Code, 1988 Edition; Standard Unsafe
Building Abatement Code, 1985 Edition; Standard Fire Prevention Code, 1988
Edition; International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition; and all
appendices thereto to the above listed codes.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.010)
   (B)   Regulations and provisions for enforcement. Regulations and provisions
for enforcement, composed of Articles A through I, as attached to the ordinance
codified in this section and as kept on file in the office of the Clerk/
Treasurer, shall constitute the procedures for enforcement of these codes.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.020)
(Ord. 89-04, passed - -; Ord. 05-01, passed 3-20-2008)
§ 150.02 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to construct or improve any building in the
town at a cost in excess of $100 unless an application has been filed with, and
a permit granted, by the town. It is further unlawful for any person in the
town to bore, drill or dig any well for the purpose of using water therefrom.
No permit shall be issued for such a purpose; nothing herein, however, shall
prevent Town Council, by special order, from granting a permit by unanimous
vote. Permit fee is $5.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 IMPROPER MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMITTEE. The Mayor and Town Council.
      DWELLING. Any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used. The word DWELLING includes an
outhouse and appurtenances belonging thereto not usually enjoined therewith.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building or that portion of a building arrangement,
designed or constructed for the use of one family as a dwelling place.
      OWNER. The record holder of the title.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, corporations and
others, including mortgagees, who have interests of record in a dwelling or
dwelling unit and any who are in possession of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any authority or any officer of any department of the
town, county or state relating to health, fire or building regulations or to
other activities concerning dwellings or dwelling units in the town.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.010)
   (B)   Intent. The Town Council finds and declares that there exist within
the corporate limits of the town, dwellings and dwelling units which are unfit
for human habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of
fire, accident or other calamities, lack of ventilation, rendering the
dwellings and dwelling units unsafe or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the
residents of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.020)
   (C)   Duties of Committee generally. The duties of the Committee shall be:
      (1)   To formulate policies for the effectuation of this section;
      (2)   To administer oaths and examine witnesses; and
      (3)   To hear testimony, make findings and issue orders thereon in all
cases of disagreement between the owner, or his or her duly authorized agent,
and the rehabilitation director.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.030)
   (D)   Other powers of Committee generally. The Committee, in addition to the
powers and duties elsewhere prescribed by the terms of this section, shall have
the following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in order to
determine which dwellings or dwelling units therein are unfit for human
habitation; and
      (2)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination;
provided that, the entries shall be made in a manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession. (Prior Code, § 15.12.040)
   (E)   Procedure upon filing of complaint. Whenever a petition is filed with
the Committee by a public authority or by at least five residents of the town
charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, the
Committee shall, if its preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the
charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and all parties in
interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges in
that respect and containing a notice that, if requested by the owner, a hearing
will be held before the Committee at a place therein fixed, not less than ten
days, nor more than 30 days, after the serving of the complaint. The owner and
parties in interest are given the right to file an answer to the complaint and
to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony at the place and time
fixed. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.050)
   (F)   Orders to repair, demolish and the like, generally. If, after a
hearing, the Committee determines that the dwelling unit under consideration is
unfit for human habitation, it shall state, in writing, its findings of fact in
support of the determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner an order requiring him or her, within the time specified in the order, to
repair, alter or improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to render it fit for
human habitation or to vacate, close for human habitation or demolish the
dwelling or dwelling unit. In cases where no hearing is had, an order shall be
prepared and served on the owner by the Committee.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.060)
   (G)   Service and posting of complaints, orders and the like. Complaints
issued by the Committee and orders and findings issued by the Committee
pursuant to this section shall be served upon the required persons either
personally or by registered mail, but if the whereabouts of the persons is
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Committee in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, and the Committee shall make an affidavit to that effect,
then the serving of the complaint or order upon the persons may be made by
publishing the same once a week for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the town. A copy of the complaint or order shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or
order.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.070)
   (H)   Closing of building by Committee upon noncompliance with order;
placarding. If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter,
improve, vacate, close or demolish the dwelling or dwelling unit, the Committee
shall close the dwelling or dwelling unit and cause to be posted on the main
entrance of the dwelling or dwelling unit a placard with the following
inscription:
   “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this
building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
(Prior Code, § 15.12.080)
   (I)   Conditions essential for fitness for human habitation. The following
conditions are declared essential to make a dwelling unit fit for human
habitation:
      (1)   Inside running water connected to a kitchen sink, to a lavatory or
laundry sink, to a bathtub or shower, and to a toilet, all connected to the
public sewer or other disposal approved by the Board of Health, if public sewer
and water lines are available within the required number of feet of the
dwelling or dwelling unit;
      (2)   Adequate glass panes for all doors and windows;
      (3)   Fireplaces, flues or other provisions for heating to afford
reasonable comfort;
      (4)   Electrical wiring system connected and installed in accordance with
the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the town relative to
electricity; and
      (5)   Privacy for toilet and tub and/or shower, effectively ventilated.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.090)
   (J)   Nuisances. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair or
limit, in any way, the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise. The
measures and procedures herein provided for do not supersede, and this section
does not repeal, any other measures or procedures which are provided by
ordinance or state law for the elimination, repair or correction of the
conditions referred to herein, but the measures and procedures herein provided
for shall be in addition to the same.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.100)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   The following requirements are to be met for all mobile homes prior to
their location within the town limits.
      (1)   Individual mobile homes shall be allowed; provided, they are
located on lots measuring at least 75 feet in width and 100 feet in depth.
      (2)   All mobile homes must comply with Southern Congress Building Code
as it pertains to trailer securing and comply with the International Property
Maintenance Code as it pertains to mobile home maintenance.
   (B)   The Town Building Inspector shall be tasked with oversight and
enforcement of this section.
   (C)   These requirements shall not be applicable to mobile homes existing
prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in this section. However, should
a mobile home be moved and replaced by a different mobile home, the provisions
of the ordinance codified in this section should apply.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.010) (Ord. 90-05, passed - -; Ord. - -, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 BUILDING NUMBERING.
   The following requirements are to be met for all buildings and residences
within the town limits.
   (A)   The owner of any building or residence shall affix conspicuously on
the front thereof numbers as may be assigned to the buildings and residences by
the town. The town shall assign numbers to buildings and residences in
cooperation with the postal service in accordance with the plat on file in the
town office.
   (B)   Numbers shall be located where they can be readily identified without
having to search for them. They shall be at least four inches high and made in
contrast to their surroundings.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.010) (Ord. 92-08, passed - -)
§ 150.06 VESTED RIGHTS TO DEVELOP PROPERTY.
   (A)   Scope and title. All applicable ordinances, municipal code sections
and regulations relating to zoning, planning and land development within the
municipality are subject to this section, which shall be known as the “Vested
Rights to Develop Property Ordinance”.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as hereinafter set forth, the words, terms and
phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meaning as set forth in S.C.
Code § 6-29-1520, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. In addition and as a supplement to the
definition set forth in S.C. Code § 6-29-1520, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004,
is further defined to mean those documents that comprise a complete application
for a zoning permit, certificate of zoning compliance, variance, special
exception, planned unit development, sketch plat or sketch plan or other
similar approval that authorizes the landowner to proceed with investment in
grading, installation of utilities, streets and other infrastructure, and to
undertake other significant expenditures necessary to prepare for application
for a building permit.
   (C)   Establishment and conditions of vested rights.
      (1)   A vested right to develop property in accord with a site specific
development plan is triggered upon the final approval of the site specific
development plan by the final official or body of the municipality authorized
to approve a site specific development plan and the payment to the municipality
of all applicable established fees.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter set forth, a vested right established by this
section is subject to the conditions and limitations as set out in S.C. Code §§
6-29-1540 and 6-29-1550, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      (3)   A vested right for an approved site specific development plan
expires two years after the date of final approval by the final official or
body authorized to approve a site specific development plan.
      (4)   No vested rights are established for phased development plans,
including approved or conditionally approved phased development plans and
including phased development plans applicable to property proposed for
annexation. An approved or conditionally approved site specific development
plan is required prior to approval with respect to each phase of a phased
development plan.
      (5)   A vested site specific development plan may be amended if the
amendment conforms to, or does not cause greater nonconformity with, the then
current provisions of the municipal zoning, planning and land development
ordinances, municipal code sections or regulations. Approval or conditional
approval of an amendment does not re-set or re-start the expiration period of a
vested right.
      (6)   No sooner than three months, and no later than 45 days prior to the
expiration of the two-year vested right period for an approved site specific
development plan, the landowner of property with a vested right in a site
specific development plan may apply to the authorized official or body for an
annual extension of the vested right. The authorized official or body must
approve an application for an annual extension of the vested right unless an
amendment to the land development ordinances or regulations have been adopted
that prohibits approval. No more than five annual extensions of the vested
right may be approved.
(Ord. 05-02, passed - -2005)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of any of §
150.02 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.020)
   (C)   The owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit unfit for human habitation
under §
150.03 who shall fail to comply with any notice or order to repair, vacate or
demolish the dwelling issued by any person authorized by §
150.03 to issue the notice or order, shall, upon conviction thereof, before the
Mayor and Town Clerk/Treasurer, be fined not exceeding $500 and/or imprisoned
not more than 30 days for each offense and each day of 24 hours of continued
noncompliance shall constitute a separate offense. Any person removing or
defacing any notice posted on any dwelling or dwelling unit by any authorized
officer under the terms of §
150.03 shall be similarly tried and punished if convicted; and further any
person, individually or as the representative of any person, firm or
corporation who otherwise violates any of the terms or provisions of §
150.03 or interferes, in any way, with the enforcement thereof, or who shall
receive rentals after the expiration of the time limit set forth in any notice
or order issued by the Committee, or who shall damage, mutilate or remove or
who shall cause to be damaged, mutilated or removed from or in a dwelling unit
any of the facilities referred to in §
150.03(I) shall be similarly prosecuted and punished upon conviction.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.110)
   (D)   Any person or persons violating §
150.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to a fine not exceeding $500 and/or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.010)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
151.001   Authority and enactment clause
151.002   Short title
151.003   Amendments
151.004   Definitions
151.005   Conflict with other laws
151.006   Validity
151.007   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
151.008   Effective date
Establishment of Zoning Districts; Rules for the Interpretation of District
Boundaries
151.020   Establishment of districts
151.021   District boundaries
151.022   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
151.023   Additions or reductions in total land area included within the
jurisdiction of chapter
Application of District Boundaries
151.035   Generally
151.036   Use of land or structures
151.037   Lot reduction prohibited
151.038   Use of substandard lots of record
Requirements by Districts
151.050   CP Conservation-Preservation District
151.051   FC Forest Conservation District
151.052   R-8 One-Family Residential District
151.053   GR General Residential District
151.054   GC General Commercial District
151.055   CC Core Commercial District
151.056   LI Light Industrial District
151.057   BI Basic Industrial District
151.058   MH Mobile Home District
151.059   FA Forest Agriculture District
151.060   SHD Scenic Highway Protection District
151.061   PMD Planned Mixed Development District
151.062   HLD Historic Landmarks District
Aesthetic Regulations
151.075   Landscaping requirements
151.076   Commercial development appearance review
Signs
151.090   Types of signs and standards
151.091   Types of illumination
151.092   Conformance with Southern Standard Building Code
151.093   Building permits
151.094   Noted exceptions
151.095   Construction and upkeep
151.096   Prohibited signs
151.097   Temporary signs
151.098   Measurement of display sign area
151.099   Measurement of height of sign
151.100   Side yard for ground signs
151.101   Projection signs and marquee signs over public right-of-way
151.102   Signs permitted in Conservation-Preservation Districts
151.103   Signs permitted in Forest-Agricultural Districts
151.104   Signs permitted in Residential and Rural Development Districts
151.105   Signs permitted in Commercial and Industrial Districts
151.106   Signs permitted in Mobile Home Districts
151.107   Signs permitted in Scenic Highway and Historic Districts
General Regulations
151.120   Street access
151.121   Classification of streets
151.122   Corner lots
151.123   Location of buildings on lots and residential limitations
151.124   Double frontage lots
151.125   Special front yard requirements in developed areas
151.126   Measurements of front, side, rear yards; determination of building
area
151.127   Nonconforming buildings or uses
151.128   Nonconforming building or use discontinuance
151.129   Home occupation
151.130   Accessory uses
151.131   Setback and other yard requirements for accessory uses
151.132   Off-street parking
151.133   Parking space area requirements
151.134   Location on other property
151.135   Common off-street parking areas
151.136   Use of public rights-of-way for maneuvering
151.137   Extension of parking space into a residential district
151.138   Off-street loading and unloading spaces
151.139   Visibility at street intersections
151.140   Visibility at private drives and entrances intersecting with streets
151.141   Exceptions to height limits
151.142   Parking, storage or use of campers or other major recreational
equipment
151.143   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
151.144   Curb cuts and access points
151.145   Water and air pollution
Administration, Enforcement, Appeal, Complaints and Remedies
151.160   Administration and enforcement
151.161   Building and sign zoning permits required
151.162   Application for building and zoning permit
151.163   Certificates of occupancy for new, altered or nonconforming uses
151.164   Conditional and temporary use
151.165   Expiration of building permit
151.166   Complaints, regarding violations and remedies
151.167   Remedies
151.168   Appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator
Zoning Board of Appeals
151.180   Establishment of Zoning Board of Appeals
151.181   Proceedings of the Zoning Board of Appeals
151.182   Decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals
151.183   Appeals, hearing and notice
151.184   Powers and duties of the Zoning Board of Appeals
151.185   Appeals from decisions of Board of Appeals
151.999   Penalty
Appendix A:   Planning and Zoning Commission Rules of Procedure
Appendix B:   Official Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE.
   In pursuance of authority conferred by the S.C. Code § 5-23-10, as amended,
and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the town; lessening congestion in the streets; securing safety from fire;
providing adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding
undue concentration of population; facilitating the adequate provision of
transportation water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public improvements,
protecting historical sites and scenic areas, protecting areas of environmental
and ecological significance; protecting areas subject to periodic flooding
against improper development; and guiding the development in accordance with
the town’s Comprehensive Plan, the Town Council does ordain and enact into law
the following subchapters and sections.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Development Ordinance
of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina”.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.003 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter, including the Official Zoning Map, may be
amended from time to time by the Town Council, as herein specified, but no
amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall
first have been submitted to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation. The Planning Commission shall have 30 days within which to
submit its report. If the Planning Commission fails to submit a report within
the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment.
   (B)   Requirements for change. When the public necessity, convenience,
general welfare or good zoning practice justifies the action, and after the
required review and report by the Planning Commission, the Town Council may
undertake the necessary steps to amend this chapter.
   (C)   Procedure for amendments. A proposed amendment to this chapter shall
be processed in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Initiation of amendments. A proposed amendment to this chapter may
be initiated by the Planning Commission or by application filed with the Clerk
of Court by the owner or owners of the property proposed to be changed or the
holder of an option on the property.
      (2)   Application procedure. Application forms for amendment requests
shall be obtained from the Clerk/Treasurer. Completed forms, together with an
application fee to cover administrative costs, plus any additional information
the applicant feels to be pertinent, will be filed with the Clerk/Treasurer.
Any communication purporting to be an application for the amendment shall be
regarded as mere notice to seek relief until it is made in the form required.
Applications for amendments must be submitted, in proper form, at least two
weeks prior to a Planning Commission meeting in order to be heard at that
meeting. Application fees shall be forwarded by the Clerk/Treasurer to the
Zoning Administrator who shall supervise the application of same to the costs
of advertising and other administrative expenses.
      (3)   Hearing by the Planning Commission. All papers and other data
submitted by the applicant on behalf of the amendment request shall be
transmitted to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission, at regular
meetings, shall review staff reports and prepare a report including its
recommendation, for transmittal to the Town Council. All meetings of the
Planning Commission shall be open to the public. At a meeting, any party may
appear in person, by agent or by attorney. No member of the Planning Commission
shall participate in a matter in which he or she has any pecuniary or special
interest. Following action by the Planning Commission, all papers and data
pertinent to the application shall be transmitted to the Town Council for final
action.
      (4)   Public hearing by the Town Council. Before enacting an amendment to
this chapter, the Town Council shall hold a public hearing thereon; notice of
the time and place of which shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town at least 15 days in advance of the scheduled hearing
date.
      (5)   Changes in the Zoning Map. Following final action by the Town
Council, any necessary changes shall be made in the Zoning Map. A written
record of the type and date of the change shall be maintained by the Clerk/
Treasurer. Until the change is made, no action by the Town Council on
amendments to this chapter shall be considered official, unless the Clerk of
Court fails to make the change within seven days after formal action by the
Council. In the latter event, action by the Town Council shall be considered
official seven days after the date of the action, even if the Clerk has failed
to make the appropriate change.
      (6)   Reconsideration of proposed amendments. The Town Council shall not
reconsider a proposed amendment to the Zoning Map if the amendment requests a
change to the same zoning classification for the same lot, parcel or portion
thereof, for a period of one year from the date of final determination of the
prior request unless the Planning Commission recommends to the Town Council
that the reconsideration be given after the Planning Commission has found that
either:
         (a)   There has been substantial change in the character of the area;
or
         (b)   Evidence or factors or conditions exist which were not
considered by the Planning Commission or the Board in previous deliberations
which might substantially alter the basis upon which the previous determination
was reached.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the
plural include the singular.
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory.
   (D)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (E)   The word “structure” includes the word “building”.
   (F)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
   (G)   The word “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building shall
be construed to include the words intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied.
   (H)   The words “map”, “Zoning Map” or “Official Zoning Map” shall mean the
Official Zoning Map of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina, and refers to all maps so
titled and bearing the seal of the town together with the signature of the
Mayor, as well as the date of adoption of this chapter, including applicable
FIA Flood Hazard Boundary Maps for the town.
   (I)   The term “Planning Commission” refers to the Calhoun Falls Planning
Commission.
   (J)   The terms “Town Council” or “Council” refers to the Town Council of
Calhoun Falls, South Carolina.
   (K)   The term “Tax Assessor” refers to the Tax Assessor of Abbeville
County.
   (L)   The term “county” refers to the Council or administration of Calhoun
Falls, South Carolina.
   (M)   The term “Clerk/Treasurer” refers to the Clerk/Treasurer of Council
for the Calhoun Falls Town Council.
   (N)   The term “Regional Council” refers to the Upper Savannah Regional
Council of Governments and its staff.
   (O)   The term “Zoning Administrator” refers to the person subsequently and
specifically designated by the Town Council and so employed and empowered as
the Zoning Administrator for the town.
   (P)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY. A use or building subordinate to the principal building on a
lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or principal use
or building located on the same lot herewith.
      ALLEY. A secondary way which affords access to the side or rear of
abutting property.
      ALTERATION OF BUILDING. Any change in the supporting members of a
building (such as bearing walls, columns or girders), any addition or reduction
to a building, any change in use or any relocation of a building from one
location or position to another.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises on any parcel or lot
where gasoline, oils and greases, batteries, tires and automobile accessories
may be supplied and dispensed at retail (or in connection with a private
operation), where no part of the premises is used for the storage of dismantled
or wrecked vehicles parts, and also where the following services may be
rendered and none other:
         (a)   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries and distributors;
         (b)   Tire repair and servicing, but no re-capping;
         (c)   Replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hose, fan belts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, floor mats, seat covers, wiper blades, windshield
wipers, grease retainers and wheel bearings;
         (d)   Washing and polishing;
         (e)   Greasing and lubrication;
         (f)   Exchanging fuel oil pumps and installing fuel lines;
         (g)   Minor servicing and replacing of carburetors;
         (h)   Emergency wiring repairs;
         (i)   Adjusting and repair of brakes;
         (j)   Minor adjustment of engines, not involving removal of the head
and/or crank case or racing the motor; and
         (k)   Sale of cold drinks and packaged foods, as accessory only to
principal operation.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling in which meals, but not lodging, are provided.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of any lot which may be used or built upon in
accordance with the regulations governing the given zoning district within
which the particular lot is located once the various front, side and rear yard
requirements required for the district have been subtracted from the total lot
area. For instructions related to the determination of BUILDABLE AREA, see §
151.126.
      BUILDING. A structure which is completely enclosed by a roof and by solid
exterior walls along whose outside faces can be traced an unbroken line for the
complete circumference of the structure, which is permanently affixed to a lot
or lots, and used or intended for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals or property of any kind.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use
of the lot on which the building is situated.
      BUILDING LINE. The line which represents the distance a building or
structure must be set back from a lot boundary or a street right-of-way line or
a street centerline according to the terms of this chapter. In all cases, the
BUILDING LINES of a lot shall be determined to run parallel to and set back the
appropriate distance required within the district in which the lot is located
from street right-of-way lines, street centerlines or other lot boundary lines.
      CAMPER. A mobile home, tent, trailer or other self-contained vehicle,
designed for recreational purposes, made of metal or other materials, mounted
on two or more wheels and either self-propelled or rigged for towing; provided,
the vehicle is less than 30 feet in length and is not used for residential
purposes within those portions of the town subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      CARE HOMES. A rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, home for the
aged or similar use established and operated on a profit or nonprofit basis to
provide lodging and/or meals and/or domiciliary care for the aged, infirmed,
chronically ill or convalescent persons.
      CLINIC. An establishment where medical or dental patients, who are not
lodged overnight, are admitted for examination or treatment.
      CONDOMINIUM. See DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land developed or used
for residential purposes. Unless otherwise clearly stated, density requirements
of this chapter are expressed in dwelling units per acre, that is, per acre of
land devoted to residential use exclusive of land utilized for streets, alleys,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other public uses.
      DISTRICT. The term applies to various geographical areas of the town for
purposes of interpreting the provisions of this chapter. The districts are
designated with the use of symbols on the Official Zoning Map. Regulations
controlling land use in the various districts within the county are set forth
in §§
151.050 through
151.062. The terms DISTRICT and ZONING DISTRICT are synonymous and are used
interchangeably throughout this chapter.
      DWELLING. A building or portion of a building arranged or designed to
provide living quarters for one or more families. The terms DWELLING and
RESIDENCE shall be interchangeable.
      DWELLING ONE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling other than a mobile home
designed for or occupied exclusively by one family on a single lot.
      DWELLING. TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling arranged or designed to be occupied by
two families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other on a
single lot.
      DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM. A building or series of buildings on the same lot
or portions thereof containing more than one dwelling unit under separate
ownership with joint ownership of common open spaces.
      DWELLING, GROUP. A building or portion of a building occupied or intended
for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families, but in which separate
cooking facilities are not provided for the resident persons or families. The
term GROUP DWELLING includes, but is not limited to, the terms “rooming house”,
“apartment hotel”, “fraternity house”, “sorority house”, “Y.M.C.A.” or
“Y.W.C.A.”. A hotel, motel or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a GROUP
DWELLING, as herein defined.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY OR MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or series of
buildings on the same lot or portions thereof used or designed and rented as
dwellings for three or more families living independently of each other, with
the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units
provided.
      DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. One of a series of three or more attached one-family
dwelling units on separate lots which:
         (a)   May or may not have a common roof;
         (b)   Shall not have a common exterior wall; and
         (c)   Are separated from each other by fire resistive party wall
partitions extending at least from the lowest floor level to the roof.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms connected together and constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use on a basis involving
owner occupancy or rental or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis with
provisions for cooking, eating and sleeping, and physically set apart from any
other rooms or dwelling units in the same structure or another structure.
      DRIVE-IN. A retail or service enterprise oriented to automobile driving
patrons wherein service is provided to the consumer on the outside and/or
inside of the principal building. The term DRIVE-IN includes drive-in
restaurants and dairy bars, theaters, banks, laundries, food stores or car
washes.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to any persons, firm or
corporation or to the general public of the use of a strip or parcel of land
for a specified purpose.
      ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer in good standing with the
State Board of Registration.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit; provided
that, no FAMILY shall contain over five persons unless all members are related
by blood or marriage; but, further provided that, domestic servants employed on
the premises may be housed on the premises.
      FLOOD HAZARD ZONE or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any area of the town so
designated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development as part of the
County Flood Insurance Program on applicable FIA Flood Hazard Boundary Maps.
The terms FLOOD HAZARD AREA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are interchangeable.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a principal building
used only for the private storage of motor vehicles as an accessory use.
      GARAGE, REPAIR. Building and premises designed or used for purposes
indicated under “automotive service station” and/or major commercial repairs;
provided that, body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed
buildings; and, provided further that, self-propelled vehicles in process of
repair shall be stored in a fully enclosed and secluded area.
      HEALTH AUTHORITY. An authorized representative of the County, District or
State Health Department.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried
on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to
the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not change the
character thereof, and no person, not a resident on the premises, is employed
specifically in connection with the activity, except that not more than one
assistant may be employed by the following HOME OCCUPATIONS: lawyer, physician,
dentist and chiropractor. Provided further that, no mechanical equipment is
installed or used, except such as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes and that not over 25% of the total floor space of any structure is
used for HOME OCCUPATIONS.
      HOTEL. A building or buildings in which lodging, with or without meals,
is provided and offered to the public for compensation, which is open to
transient or permanent guests. The word HOTEL includes the terms “motel” and
“tourist court”.
      JUNK OR SALVAGE YARDS. The use of any part of a lot, whether inside or
outside of a building, for the storage, keeping, abandonment, sale or resale of
junk, salvage or scrap materials; or the dismantling, demolition or abandonment
of automobiles and other vehicles, machinery, equipment or parts thereof.
      LOADING SPACE OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for
pickups and deliveries off public rights-of-way, scaled to delivery vehicles
expected to be used and accessible to the vehicles when required off-street
parking spaces are filled.
      LOT. An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a
legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed as filed in the
official records of the county. The terms LOT, PLOT, LOT OF RECORD, PARCEL,
PROPERTY, SITE or TRACT, whenever used in this chapter, are interchangeable.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which has frontage on more than one street;
provided, however, that, no corner lot shall qualify as a double frontage lot
unless the corner lot has frontage on three or more streets.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on only
one street other than an alley.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines.
      LOT OF RECORD. See LOT.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front
building line.
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicular or similar portable structure in excess of 30
feet in length having portable wheels, jacks or skirtings and so designed or
constructed as to permit single-family occupancy for dwelling or sleeping
purposes. The term MOBILE HOME includes the term “house trailer”.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Premises where two or more mobile homes are parked for
living or sleeping purposes, or where spaces are set aside or offered for sale
or rent for use for mobile homes for living or sleeping purposes, including any
land, building, structure or facility used by occupants of mobile homes on the
premises.
      MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed
for the accommodation of one mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A unified development of mobile home lots, shown
on a subdivision plat, approved by the Planning Commission and filed for
record.
      MOTEL. A building or buildings in which lodging, with or without meals,
is provided and offered to the public for compensation, which is open to
transient or permanent guests. The word MOTEL includes the terms “hotel” and
“tourist court”.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or land lawfully occupied by an existing
use which does not conform with the permitted uses for the zoning district in
which it is situated, either at the effective date of this chapter or as the
result of subsequent amendments to this chapter.
      PARCEL. See LOT.
      PARKING LOT.
         (a)   Any public or private open area used for the expressed purpose
of parking automobiles and other vehicles, with the exception of areas on the
premises of single-family dwellings used for parking purposes incidental to the
principal use.
         (b)   Otherwise, PARKING LOTS may be the principal use on a given lot
or an accessory use in the principal use on a given lot.
      PARKING SPACE. A space within a parking lot or on a single-family
dwelling lot expressly provided for purposes of parking an automobile or other
vehicle.
      PLOT. An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a
legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed as filed in the
official records of the county. The terms LOT, PLOT, LOT OF RECORD, PARCEL,
PROPERTY, SITE or TRACT, whenever used in this chapter, are interchangeable.
      PREMISES. A lot or other tract of land including the buildings or
structures thereon.
      PROPERTY. An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on
a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed as filed in
the official records of the county. The terms LOT, PLOT, LOT OF RECORD, PARCEL,
PROPERTY, SITE or TRACT, whenever used in this chapter, are interchangeable.
      RESIDENCE. A building or portion of a building arranged or designed to
provide living quarters for one or more families. The terms DWELLING and
RESIDENCE shall be interchangeable. See DWELLING.
      SERVICE STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      SIGN. Every sign, billboard, poster panel, free-standing ground sign,
roof sign, projecting sign, pylon sign, illuminating sign, sign painted on a
wall, window, marquee, awning or canopy, and shall include any announcement,
declaration, demonstration, display, ribbon, banner, illustration or insignia
used to advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same is
placed in view of the general public, traveling along a public street right-of-
way.
      SITE. See LOT.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use so specifically designated in this chapter that
would not be appropriate for location generally or without restriction
throughout a given zoning division or district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would, in the opinion
of the Board of Appeals, promote the public health, safety, welfare, morals,
order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or general welfare.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above
it, then the space between the floor and ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A story in which one or more exterior walls intersect a
sloping roof not more than two feet above the floor of the STORY.
      STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
      STREET CENTERLINE. The line surveyed and monumented by the governing body
shall be the centerline of a street or in the event that no centerline has been
so determined, it shall be that line running midway between and parallel to the
general direction of the outside right-of-way lines of the streets.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
more or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something
having more or less permanent location on the ground. A BUILDING is a
STRUCTURE.
      SUBDIVISION. A tract parceled into two or more lots for purposes of
resale.
      SURVEYOR. A registered land surveyor in good standing with the State
Board of Registration.
      TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in less than
ten rooms are provided or offered for the use of guests in return for
compensation, and meals may or may not be offered. Any dwelling in which the
accommodations are offered in ten or more rooms shall be deemed to be a hotel,
as herein defined. The use of a dwelling as a TOURIST HOME shall not be
considered an accessory use, nor a customary home occupation.
      TOWNHOUSE. See DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure capable of moving, or being moved, over
streets and highways on its own wheels or on flat beds or other carriers, which
is designed or utilized to:
         (a)   Provide temporary or permanent quarters for the conduct of a
business, profession, trade or occupation;
         (b)   Serve as a carrier of people, new or used goods, products or
equipment; and
         (c)   Be used as a selling, advertising or display device.
      TRAILER, HOUSE. Interchangeable with the term MOBILE HOME.
      USE, ACCESSORY. See ACCESSORY.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary purpose for which a lot is occupied and/or
used.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of this chapter granted by
the Zoning Board of Appeals where the modification will not be contrary to the
public interest, and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and
not as the result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal
enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship, and
where the modification will not authorize a principal or accessory use of the
property which is not permitted within the zoning district in which the
property is located.
      YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky, except where
encroachments and accessory buildings and structures are expressly permitted.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard situated between the front building line and the
front lot line extending the full width of the lot.
      YARD, REAR. A yard situated between the rear building line and the rear
lot line extending the full width of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard situated between a side building line and a side lot
line and extending from the required front yard to the required rear yard. In
determining the situation of accessory structures, the SIDE YARD shall be
assumed to extend through the rear yard to the rear lot line.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.005 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Whenever the regulations of this chapter require a greater width or
size of yards, require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied or
impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other
statutes, the requirements of this chapter shall govern.
   (B)   Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive
standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of the statute will
govern.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.006 VALIDITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.007 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed to
the extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of
its adoption by the Town Council.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS; RULES FOR THE INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES
§ 151.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, portions of the town, as specified on the
Official Zoning Map of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina, are hereby divided into
the following.
BI  Basic Industrial District
CC  Core Commercial District
CP  Conservation-Preservation District
FA  Forest Agricultural District
FC  Forest Conservation District
GC  General Commercial District
GR  General Residential District
HLD Historic Landmarks District
LI  Limited Industrial District
MH  Mobile Home District
R-8 One-Family Residential District
SHD Scenic Highway Protection District
TND Traditional Neighborhood District
 
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.021 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the above zoning districts are shown on a map or
series of maps entitled “Official Zoning Map, Town of Calhoun Falls, South
Carolina”, which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Each map bearing the designation “Official Zoning Map, Calhoun Falls,
South Carolina” shall be identified by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk/
Treasurer (Clerk/Treasurer of Council), under the words: “Official Zoning Map,
Calhoun Falls, South Carolina”, together with the date of adoption of this
chapter.
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and S.C. Code §
52-310, as amended, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, the changes shall be entered on the
Official Zoning Map promptly by the Town Manager within seven days after the
amendment has been approved by the Town Council. No amendment to this chapter
which involves matters portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall become
effective until after the change has been made on the map.
   (D)   No changes of any nature shall be made on the Official Zoning Map or
matters shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons
shall be considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided by
law.
   (E)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map, which may from time to time be published, the Official Zoning Map, which
shall be located in the office of the Town Manager, shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings
and other structures in the town.
   (F)   In addition, FIA Flood Hazard Boundary Maps for those portions of
Calhoun Falls covered by this chapter, having an effective date as prepared by
the Department of Housing and Urban Development Federal Insurance
Administration, copies of which are on file in the office of the Town Manager
are hereby adopted by reference and are as fully a part of this chapter as if
set forth herein.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.022 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, or the FIA Flood Hazard Boundary Maps, the following rules
shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines or
right-of-way lines of streets, highways, alleys, railways or public utility
easements shall be construed to follow the lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot or tract
lines shall be construed as following the lines, whether public or private.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following incorporated area or
county limit lines or special district lines, as amended from time to time,
shall be construed to follow the lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated to approximately follow topographic elevations
shall be construed to follow the elevations.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center, mean high
water mark or shoreline of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of
water, floodplains or low lands shall be construed to follow the boundaries.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed. When
distances are not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.023 ADDITIONS OR REDUCTIONS IN TOTAL LAND AREA INCLUDED WITHIN THE
JURISDICTION OF CHAPTER.
   Where the total area in the town is increased or reduced by any means, the
following conditions shall apply.
   (A)   When the change results in an increase in land area within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, the land area whether previously a part of a
municipality or not, shall be classified Forest Agriculture (FA), until the
time as the Town Council may desire to change the classification through normal
amendment procedure.
   (B)   When reductions are made in the area under the jurisdiction of this
chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall no longer apply to that land
area.
   (C)   In all cases, where additions or reductions in the land area under the
jurisdiction of this chapter require adjustments in the zoning district
boundaries, the adjustments shall be made on the Zoning Map by the Town
Manager.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
APPLICATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
§ 151.035 GENERALLY.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be the
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except where provisions for relief are set forth elsewhere
in this chapter.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.036 USE OF LAND OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No land or structure shall be hereinafter used or occupied, and no
structure or parts shall hereafter be constructed, erected, altered or moved,
unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
   (B)   No structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   With greater height, size, bulk or other dimensions;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and/or
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yard, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than herein required or, in any other manner, contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No part of a yard, other open space or off-street parking or loading
requirement about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space or
off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
   (D)   Right-of-way easements for streets and roads shall not be considered a
part of a lot or open space or front, rear or side yard for the purpose of
meeting yard requirements.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.037 LOT REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet at
least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.038 USE OF SUBSTANDARD LOTS OF RECORD.
   Where the owner of a lot at the time of the adoption of this chapter does
not own sufficient land to enable him or her to conform to the dimensional
requirements of this chapter, the lot may nonetheless be used as a building
site and the Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a permit for the use
of the property which conforms to the requirements for the district in which
the lot is located as set forth in this chapter. If, however, the owner of two
or more adjoining lots, with insufficient land dimensions, decides to build on
or to sell off these lots, he or she must first combine the lots to comply with
the dimensional requirements of this chapter. Any substandard lot of record
requiring waivers on yard requirements applying to the district within which
the lot is located shall be first approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals
provided that further decreased dimensional requirements shall conform as
closely as possible to the required dimensions.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICTS
§ 151.050 CP CONSERVATION-PRESERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent of district.
      (1)   It is the intent of this section that the CP Zoning District be
established and maintained to preserve and/or control development within
certain land and/or water areas in the town which:
         (a)   Serve as wildlife refuges;
         (b)   Require protection from an environmental or ecological
standpoint;
         (c)   Possess great natural beauty;
         (d)   Are utilized for outdoor recreational purposes;
         (e)   Provide needed open space for the health and general welfare of
the county’s inhabitants; and/or
         (f)   Are subject to periodic flooding of a degree to inhibit sound
development.
      (2)   The regulations which apply within this district are designed to
reserve the areas for the purposes outlined herein and to discourage any
encroachment by residential, commercial, industrial or other uses capable of
adversely affecting the relatively undeveloped character of the district.
   (B)   Jurisdiction of district. The CP District applies to the following
areas adjacent to streams, lakes and watercourses within the town:
      (1)   Flood hazard area. Those areas within the Floodplain Map, as
designated by the Official Floodplain Map for the town;
      (2)   Water quality area. Those areas within 100 feet of streams, lakes
and watercourses within the town; and
      (3)   Other areas as designated by the Town Council.
   (C)   Permitted uses in a flood area. The following uses shall be permitted
in any flood area of a CP Zoning District:
      (1)   Areas or structures to be of historical significance or scenic
beauty and so designated on the Zoning Map;
      (2)   Agriculture, timberland, tree farms and/or forestry management
areas and uses customarily accessory to the activities;
      (3)   Publicly owned and/or operated park, open space, recreational
facility or use and the equipment necessary for servicing the users;
      (4)   Wildlife refuge, including one-family or two-family dwelling units
of caretakers employed to maintain and protect the refuge; and
      (5)   Accessory use in compliance with the provisions of §§
151.130 and
151.131.
   (D)   Conditional uses in flood area. None permitted.
   (E)   Water quality overlay area.
      (1)   The water quality area shall be an overlay district that regulates
certain practices, but not the underlying use of the property within the
district. The following restrictions apply.
      (2)   All timber practices or row crop tilling agricultural practices
within the water quality area must be done in accordance with a conservation
plan approved by the County Soil and Water Conservation District. Practices not
in accordance with this plan shall be a violation of this chapter and subject
to appropriate penalties as such.
   (F)   Dimensional requirements in flood area.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: none; except that, residences (excluding those
designated to be of historical significance) and recreational facilities, where
permitted, shall be on lots of not less than two acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: none; except lots which are sites for permitted
residences and/or recreational facilities shall be on lots at least 200 feet
wide;
      (3)   Minimum front yard depth: none; except for residential uses
(excluding those designated to be of historical significance) or recreational
facilities when the minimum shall be not less than 200 feet deep;
      (4)   Minimum side yard: none; except that, no side yard on a lot which
is a side for a permitted residence (excluding those designated to be of
historical significance) or recreational facility shall be less than 50 feet
each in width;
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: none; except that, no rear yard on a lot which
is a side for a permitted residence (excluding those designated to be of
historical significance) or recreational facility shall be less than 50 feet
deep;
      (6)   Maximum building height: none;
      (7)   Additional requirements: uses permitted in a CP Zoning District
shall meet all standards set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145 pertaining to off-street parking, loading and other requirements; and
      (8)   Signs: signs permitted in CP Zoning Districts, including the
conditions under which they may be located, are set forth in §§
151.090 through
151.107.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.051 FC FOREST CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent of district. It is the intent of this section that the FC
Zoning District be utilized and reserved for general farming and tree growing
purposes as well as certain specialized residential, recreational or other
public purposes. The regulations which apply within this district are designed:
      (1)   To encourage the formation and continuance of a compatible
environment for public and recreational areas, truck farms, orchards, livestock
ranches, dairies, timberland, forest management areas, horticultural nurseries
and other agricultural uses which involve the growing of crops, livestock and
animals and/or trees;
      (2)   To provide the suitable services, commercial and otherwise, to
residents of FC Districts; and
      (3)   To discourage any encroachment by premature housing developments,
commercial and/or industrial operations or other uses capable of adversely
affecting the basic agricultural or open character of the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any FC Zoning
District:
      (1)   All uses permitted in a CP Conservation-Preservation District, as
shown in §
151.050;
      (2)   Farms or establishments for the growing, care and handling of field
crops, truck gardening products, fruit and/or nut trees, poultry and/or animals
and livestock;
      (3)   Tree farms and/or forest management areas;
      (4)   Horticultural nursery;
      (5)   Church;
      (6)   Private or semi-private club, lodge or union hall or social center;
      (7)   Animal hospital and/or boarding facility;
      (8)   Any publicly owned and operated building, facility or land;
      (9)   Eleemosynary, religious, semi-private or philanthropic institution
or camp;
      (10)   Golf course;
      (11)   One-family dwelling located on a lot containing not less than two
acres of land;
      (12)   One-family dwelling, accessory to farm operation on same property
with farm and occupied by full-time owners and laborers on the farm;
      (13)   Individual mobile homes used for permanent residential purposes on
individual lots containing not less than two acres of land;
      (14)   Private dock;
      (15)   Boat marina;
      (16)   Boat house:
      (17)   Wildlife refuge, including one-family or two-family dwelling units
of caretakers employed to maintain and protect the refuge;
      (18)   Airfield, together with subordinate uses; and
      (19)   Commercial businesses or related activities existing at the time
of passage of this chapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any FC
Zoning District subject to conditions set forth herein below and in §
151.164:
      (1)   Stand or shelter for the selling and/or display of seasonal
agricultural products; provided that:
         (a)   The uses may encroach a front yard requirement as provided for
in division (D) below; and
         (b)   At least four off-street parking spaces are provided and
suitably maintained.
      (2)   Commercial riding stable; provided that, no building or enclosure
for animals is located closer than 100 feet from any property line;
      (3)   Cemetery, when accessory to and on the same property as a permitted
use in the FC District;
      (4)   Temporary use in compliance with the provisions of §
151.164;
      (5)   Customary home occupation established under the regulations of §
151.129; and
      (6)   Accessory use in compliance with the provisions of §§
151.130 and
151.131.
   (D)   Dimensional requirements. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, structures permitted in FC Zoning Districts shall be required to
conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: two acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 200 feet;
      (3)   Minimum front yard depth: 50 feet; except that, stands or shelters
for the selling and/or display of seasonal agricultural produce or other
permitted commercial activities may be located within the minimum front yard
area, but no closer than ten feet to the nearest street right-of-way. For
exceptions to this requirement, see §§
151.124 and
151.125;
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 30 feet. For each side yard requirement
pertaining to corner lots, see §§
151.122 and
151.124;
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 30 feet. For rear yard requirements pertaining
to double frontage lots, see §
151.124;
      (6)   Maximum building height: none;
      (7)   Additional requirements: where required, uses permitted in FC
Zoning Districts shall meet all standards set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145 pertaining to off-street parking, loading and other requirements; and
      (8)   Signs: signs permitted in FC Zoning Districts, including the
conditions under which they may be located, are set forth in §§
151.090 through
151.107.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.052 R-8 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent of district. It is the intent of this section that the R-
8 Zoning District be developed and reserved for one-family residential
purposes. The regulations which apply within this district are designed to
encourage the formation and continuance of a stable, healthy environment for
one-family dwellings situated on lots of 8,000 square feet or more; and to
discourage any encroachment by commercial, industrial or other use capable of
adversely affecting the residential character of the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any R-
8 Zoning District:
      (1)   All uses permitted in a CP Conservation-Preservation District, as
shown in §
151.050;
      (2)   One-family dwelling (other than a mobile home);
      (3)   Publicly owned building, facility or land;
      (4)   Unlighted, regulation-size or par three golf courses, including
normal club house and pro shop activities, and other business activities
associated with a country club;
      (5)   Non-commercial horticulture or agriculture, but not including the
keeping of poultry or animals;
      (6)   Customary home occupation established under the provisions of §
151.129; and
      (7)   Accessory use in compliance with the provisions of §§
151.130 and
151.131.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   The following uses shall be permitted in any R-8 Zoning District
subject to conditions set forth herein below and in §
151.164:
         (a)   Church, synagogue, temple and other place of worship; provided
that:
            1.   The use is housed in a permanent structure; and
            2.   No structure on the lot is closer than 25 feet to any abutting
residential property line.
         (b)   Public and private school engaged in teaching general curriculum
for educational advancement; provided, the structures are placed not less than
50 feet from any residential property line;
         (c)   Public utility substation or sub-installation including water
towers; provided that:
            1.   The use is enclosed by a painted or chainlink fence or wall of
at least six feet in height above finished grade;
            2.   There is neither office nor commercial operation nor storage
of vehicles or equipment on the premises; and
            3.   A landscaped strip not less than five feet in width at
inception of the use is planted and suitably maintained around the facility.
         (d)   Temporary use in compliance with the provisions of §
151.164; and
         (e)   Private kindergarten or pre-school nursery; provided that:
            1.   The use is located on a lot not less than one acre in area;
and
            2.   No structure on the lot is closer than 50 feet to any abutting
residential property line.
      (2)   If operated as part of a church, synagogue, temple or other place
of worship, a private kindergarten or preschool nursery shall be considered an
accessory use to the church, synagogue, temple or other place of worship.
Otherwise, the use shall be considered a conditional use and shall be required
to observe the requirements for private kindergartens and pre-school nurseries
as set forth above.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. Mobile homes are expressly prohibited in any R-
8 Zoning District. Mobile homes existing in the district upon enactment of this
chapter are declared nonconforming uses and subject to provisions of §
151.127, except on Edgewood Circle when taking the first right off of Anderson
onto Edgewood past Peach Orchard Road.
   (E)   Other requirements. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, uses permitted in R-8 Zoning Districts shall be required to conform to
the following standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 8,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum area per dwelling unit: 8,000 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot width, measured at the building line: 50 feet;
      (4)   Maximum front yard depth, measured from the nearest abutting street
right-of-way line: 25 feet. For exceptions to this requirement, see §§
151.124 and
151.125;
      (5)   Minimum side yard: 15 feet. For rear yard requirements pertaining
to double frontage lots, see §
151.124;
      (6)   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet. For rear yard requirements pertaining
to double frontage lots, see §
151.124;
      (7)   Maximum building height: 35 feet. For exceptions to height
regulations, see §
151.141;
      (8)   Additional requirements: uses permitted in R-8 Zoning Districts
shall meet all standards set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145, pertaining to off-street parking, loading and other requirements; and
      (9)   Signs: signs permitted in R-8 Zoning Districts, including the
conditions under which they may be located, are set forth in §§
151.090 through
151.107.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.053 GR GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent of district. It is the intent of this section that the GR
Zoning District be developed and reserved for medium-to-high density
residential purposes. The regulations which apply within this district are
designed to encourage the formation and continuance of a stable health
environment for several different types of dwellings situated on lots of 5,000
or more square feet and to discourage unwarranted encroachment of commercial,
industrial or other uses capable of adversely affecting the residential
character of the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted any GR Zoning
District:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the R-8 One-Family Residential District as
shown in §
151.052;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (4)   Group dwelling; and
      (5)   Commercial uses existing at the time of passage of this chapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted in any GR Zoning
District subject to the provisions set forth in §
151.164:
      (1)   All conditional uses permitted in any R-8 One-Family Residential
District as shown in §
151.052;
      (2)   Public or private care home; provided, the facility conforms with
the requirements of the State Department of Health and Environmental Control,
and provided plans for the facility receive the written approval of the County
Board of Health prior to the issuance of any permits for construction and
operation; copies of the approval to be attached to the building permit and to
be retained in the files of the Zoning Administrator; and
      (3)   Mobile home on individual lot containing not less than 5,000 square
feet; provided, the uses are occupied as residences, wheels for transporting
the uses are removed, are skirted around the perimeter and are placed and
anchored on a permanent foundation. Approved metal mobile home skirting or
vinyl siding skirting.
   (D)   Other requirements. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, uses permitted in GR Zoning Districts shall be required to conform to
the following standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
 
Group dwellings             12,000 square feet
Private or public care home 1 acre
Other principal uses        6,000 square feet
One-family dwellings        5,000 square feet
Two-family dwellings        6,000 square feet
Multi-family dwellings      20,000 square feet
 
      (2)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit: the minimum area per dwelling
unit on a lot shall not be less than indicated by dwelling unit type on the
following schedule:
 
Group dwelling        Not applicable
One-family dwelling   5,000 square feet per unit
Two-family dwelling   3,000 square feet per unit
Multi-family dwelling 2,000 square feet per unit
 
      (3)   Minimum lot width, measured at the building line:
 
Group dwelling              80 feet
Private or public care home 80 feet
Other principal uses        50 feet
One-family dwelling         50 feet
Two-family dwelling         50 feet
Multiple-dwelling           100 feet
 
      (4)   Minimum front yard depth measured form the nearest abutting street
right-of-way line: 25 feet. For other exceptions to this requirement, see §§
151.122 and
151.125;
      (5)   Minimum side yard: no less than ten feet on each side; provided
that, the total of both side yards is no less than 30% of the lot width. For
side yard requirements pertaining to corner lots, see §
151.124; and
      (6)   Aesthetic regulations: two- and multi-family uses in a general
residential use must conform to appearance regulations set forth in §§
151.075,
151.076 and
151.090 through
151.107.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.054 GC GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of this section that the GC Zoning District
be developed and reserved for general business purposes. The regulations which
apply within this district are designed to encourage the formation and
continuance of a compatible and economical environment for business, financial,
service and professional uses which benefit from being located in close
proximity to each other; and to discourage any encroachment by industrial,
residential or other uses considered capable of adversely affecting the basic
commercial character of the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any GC Zoning
District:
      (1)   Retail business involving the sale of merchandise on the premises
in stores, specifically including:
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Appliance, radio, television store;
         (c)   Art supply store;
         (d)   Book, magazine, newspaper shop;
         (e)   Candy store;
         (f)   Clothing store;
         (g)   Drug store or pharmacy;
         (h)   Florist shop;
         (i)   Fruit, nut and/or vegetable store;
         (j)   Gift or curio shop;
         (k)   Grocery store;
         (l)   Hardware store;
         (m)   Hobby and/or toy store;
         (n)   Household furnishings store;
         (o)   Millinery or hat store;
         (p)   Music store and/or record shop;
         (q)   Five- and ten-cent general or variety store;
         (r)   Office supply and equipment store;
         (s)   Package liquor store;
         (t)   Paint store;
         (u)   Photographic and camera supply and service store and studio;
         (v)   Shoe store;
         (w)   Sporting goods store; and
         (x)   Video film rental store.
      (2)   Business involving the rendering of a personal service or the
repair and servicing of small equipment specifically including:
         (a)   Appliance, radio, television repair shop;
         (b)   Bank, savings and loan association, personal loan agency and
branches;
         (c)   Barber shop, beauty shop or combination thereof;
         (d)   Bicycle repair and sales shop;
         (e)   Business school or college, commercial trade or vocational
school;
         (f)   Dressmaker, seamstress, tailor;
         (g)   Dry cleaning self-service and/or laundry self-service facility;
         (h)   Funeral home or mortuary;
         (i)   Hotel, motel and/or tourist home;
         (j)   Jewelry and watch repair shop;
         (k)   Medical, dental or chiropractic clinic and/or laboratory;
         (l)   Locksmith or gunsmith;
         (m)   Office for governmental, business, professional or general
purpose;
         (n)   Photographic studio;
         (o)   Private or semi-private club, lodge, union hall or social
center;
         (p)   Private school offering curriculum leading to a recognized
diploma, certification or degree;
         (q)   School offering instruction in art, music, dancing, drama or
similar cultural activity;
         (r)   Secretarial and/or telephone answering service;
         (s)   Shoe repair shop;
         (t)   Telegraph office; and
         (u)   Telephone exchange.
      (3)   Radio and/or television station;
      (4)   Private or semi-private club, lodge, union hall or social center;
      (5)   Church, synagogue, temple or other place of worship;
      (6)   Residential use lawfully existing within the district at the time
of adoption of this chapter;
      (7)   Off-street commercial parking lot or garage;
      (8)   Publicly owned and operated building, facility or land including
schools; and
      (9)   Accessory use in compliance with the provisions of §§
151.130 and
151.131.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted on a
conditional basis in any GC Zoning District, subject to the conditions set
forth in §
151.164:
      (1)   Animal hospital and/or boarding facility; provided, all boarding
arrangements are maintained within a building and no noise connected with the
operation of the facility is perceptible beyond the premises;
      (2)   Auto accessory store provided there is no storage of wrecked
automobiles or scrapped or salvaged auto parts on the premises;
      (3)   Automobile laundry or washeteria provided an off-street paved
parking area capable of accommodating not less than one-half of hourly vehicle
washing capacity awaiting entrance to the washing process is suitably located
and maintained on the premises (the space to contain at least 200 square feet
per waiting vehicle); and, provided, no safety hazard or impediment to traffic
movement is created by the operation of an establishment;
      (4)   Automobile service station provided operations involving major
repairs, body and fender work, painting or the sale or rental of new or used
cars or trucks, trailers or any type of boats, are not conducted on the
premises; provided, all pumps are set back at least 25 feet from the right-of-
way line of all abutting streets; and, provided, parking and/or service areas
are separated from adjoining residential properties by a suitable screen, fence
or wall at least six feet in height above finish grade;
      (5)   Bakery; provided that, goods baked on the premises are sold only at
retail on the premises;
      (6)   Commercial recreational facility, specifically including:
         (a)   Billiard parlor;
         (b)   Theater, including drive-in facility;
         (c)   Bowling alley;
         (d)   Golf course (including driving range or Par 3 operation);
provided, no outside loud speaking systems are utilized; provided, all lights
or lighting arrangements used for purposes of advertising or night operations
are directed away from adjoining or nearby residential properties; and,
provided, parking and/or service areas are separated from adjoining residential
properties by a suitable planting screen, fence or wall at least six feet in
height above finish grade;
      (7)   Community hospital or clinic including any functions which relate
directly to the operation of hospitals or clinics and are contained within the
confines of the hospital or clinic; and, provided, the uses are in compliance
with the provisions of §
151.131;
      (8)   Delicatessen, restaurant, soda fountain or other eating and/or
drinking establishment; provided, no outside loud speaker systems are utilized;
provided, all lights or lighting arrangements used for purposes of advertising
or night operations are directed away from adjoining or nearby residential
properties; and, provided, parking and/or service areas are separated from
adjoining residential properties by a suitable planting screen, fence or wall
at least six feet in height above finish grade;
      (9)   Dry cleaning or laundry pickup agency; provided that, any
laundering, cleaning or pressing done on the premises involves only articles
delivered to the premises by individual customers;
      (10)   Garage for the repair and servicing of motor vehicles provided all
operations are conducted within a fully enclosed building and provided there is
no open storage of wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts or parts visible beyond
the premises;
      (11)   Meat, fish and/or poultry shop; provided that, no slaughtering be
permitted. Any cleaning of fish or poultry necessary for the use may be
permitted provided cleaning activities are conducted within the principal
building enclosure on the premises;
      (12)   Newspaper publishing plant; provided that, the requirements for
parking, loading, and unloading conform to those for industrial buildings, as
set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145;
      (13)   Open yard use for the sale, rental and/or storage of materials or
equipment excluding junk or other salvage; provided that, the uses are
separated from adjoining residential properties or zoning districts by a
suitable planting screen, fence or wall at least six feet in height above
finished grade;
      (14)   Pet shop; provided, all animals are housed within the principal
building so that no sound is perceptible beyond the premises;
      (15)   Public utility substation or subinstallation, including water or
fire towers; provided, the use in enclosed by a painted or chain-link fence or
wall at least six feet in height above finish grade; provided, there is neither
an office nor commercial operation nor storage of vehicles or equipment on the
premises; and, provided, a landscaped strip not less than five feet in width is
planted and suitably maintained;
      (16)   Mini-warehouses; provided that, the site does not exceed two
acres, that total lot coverage is limited to 50% of the total area, that
vehicular ingress-egress is limited to one point per each side of property and
that only rental of the storage units is the only commercial activity; and
      (17)   Temporary use in compliance with the provisions of §
151.164.
   (D)   Other requirements. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, uses permitted in GC General Commercial Zoning Districts shall be
required to conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width measured at the building line: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum front yard: measured from the nearest abutting street
right-of-way line: 50 feet;
      (4)   Minimum side yard: not less than ten feet for each side. Where the
district abuts any Residential Zoning District not separated by a street right-
of-way, a minimum side yard of 30 feet on the side abutting the Residential
District, together with a suitable planting screen, fence or wall at least six
feet in height above finished grade shall be required. For side yard
requirements pertaining to corner lots, see §§
151.122 and
151.124;
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet, where the district abuts any
Residential Zoning District not separated by a street right-of-way, a suitable
planting screen, fence or wall at least six feet in height above finished grade
shall be required. For rear yard requirements pertaining to double frontage
lots, see §
151.124;
      (6)   Maximum building height: for hotels and office buildings: 60 feet;
for all other uses: 35 feet. For exceptions to the height regulations, see §
151.141;
      (7)   Additional requirements: uses permitted in GC Zoning District shall
meet all standards set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145, pertaining to off-street parking, loading and other requirements; and
      (8)   Aesthetics: uses permitted in GC Zoning Districts must conform to
aesthetic regulations set forth in §§
151.075,
151.076 and
151.090 through
151.107.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.055 CC CORE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The intent of the CC Core Commercial District is to encourage
the maintenance of a centrally located trade and commercial service area within
municipalities, to promote infill of downtown retail spaces and to provide for
the orderly expansion of the areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any CC Core
Commercial District: Any use permitted in any GC Zoning District subject to the
conditions of §
151.054.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted on a
conditional basis in any CC Core Commercial District: any use permitted on a
conditional basis in any GC District, subject to the conditions of §§
151.054 and
151.164, expressly excluding mini-warehouses.
   (D)   Other requirements. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, uses permitted in CC Core Commercial Districts shall be required to
meet all standards set forth in this chapter for uses permitted in GC Zoning
Districts, except that all front and side yard requirements, as well as all
off-street parking and loading requirements shall be waived.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.056 LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The intent of the LI Zoning District is to provide areas for
limited industrial purposes which are not significantly objectionable in terms
of noise, odor, fumes and the like to surrounding properties. The regulations
which apply within this district are designed to encourage the formation and
continuance of a comparable environment for use generally classified to be
limited industrial in nature; protect and reserve undeveloped areas in the
county which are suitable for the industries; and discourage encroachment by
those residential, commercial or other uses capable of adversely affecting the
basic industrial character of the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any LI Zoning
District:
      (1)   Research or experimental laboratories;
      (2)   Transportation terminal facility, including airfields together with
incidental operations;
      (3)   Public building, facility or land other than a school, playground,
hospital, clinic, care home or cultural facility;
      (4)   Public utility installation;
      (5)   Agricultural farm;
      (6)   Horticultural nursery;
      (7)   Radio and/or television station and/or transmission tower;
      (8)   Office building and/or offices for governmental, business,
professional or general purposes;
      (9)   Commercial trade or vocational school; and
      (10)   Off-street commercial parking lot or garage, as well as off-street
parking or storage area for customer, client or employee-owned vehicles.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted on a
conditional basis in any LI Zoning District, subject to the conditions set
forth in §
151.164:
      (1)   Any industrial use, plus operations incidental to the use, which
involves manufacturing, processing, assembly, storage operations; provided, the
manufacturing, processing, assembly or storage and, in no way, involves any
junk or salvage operations; provided that, there is no open storage of junk or
salvage materials; and, provided that, any noise, vibration, smoke, gas, fume,
odor, dust, fire hazard, dangerous radiation or other injurious or obnoxious
conditions related to the operation are not sufficient to create a nuisance
beyond the premises;
      (2)   Warehouse or other storage facility; provided that, there is no
open storage of junk or salvage materials of any type in conjunction with the
operation;
      (3)   Wholesale business outlet; provided that, there is no open storage
of junk or salvage materials of any type in conjunction with the operation;
      (4)   Automobile service station or truck stop; provided that, all pumps
are set back at least 25 feet from the right-of-way line of any street; and,
provided that, there is no open storage of any type in conjunction with the
operation;
      (5)   Animal hospital and/or boarding facility; provided, all boarding
arrangements are maintained within a building and no noise connected with the
operation of the facility is discernible beyond the premises;
      (6)   Retail business; provided, the business is incidental to a
permitted use; is located on the same premises as a permitted use; and involves
no open storage of junk or salvage materials of any type in conjunction with
the operation;
      (7)   Truck terminal; provided that, paved acceleration and deceleration
lanes at least ten feet in width and 100 feet in length, respectively, are
furnished and maintained where trucks enter or leave terminal sites located
adjacent to major streets; provided no safety hazards or impediment to traffic
movement is produced on any access road; and provided no open storage of any
type is conducted in connection with the operation;
      (8)   Watchpersons or caretaker’s one-family or two-family dwelling;
provided that, a dwelling is located on the premises of a permitted use; and,
provided, the head of the household is employed by the industry as a
watchperson or caretaker;
      (9)   Dwelling incidental to a permitted agricultural or horticultural
use; provided that, the related dwellings are occupied only by persons employed
directly on the premises;
      (10)   Garage or shop for the repair and servicing of motor vehicles,
equipment or machine parts; provided that, there is no open storage of junk or
salvage materials of any type in conjunction with the operation; and, provided,
no objectionable sound, vibration, heat, glare or electrical disturbance is
created which is perceptible beyond the premises; and
      (11)   Temporary use in compliance with the provisions of §
151.164.
   (D)   Other requirements. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, uses permitted in the LI Limited Industrial Zoning Districts shall be
required to conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre;
      (2)   Minimum lot width measured at the building line: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum front yard depth measured from the nearest abutting street
right-of-way: 100 feet;
      (4)   Minimum side yard: no less than 50 feet on each side, except that
when the property abuts another zoning district, at least 100 feet on that
particular side shall be required. Where the district abuts any Residential
Zoning District not separated by a right-of-way, a suitable planting screen,
fence or wall of at least six feet in height above finish grade will be
required. For rear yard requirements pertaining to double frontage lots, see §
151.124;
      (5)   Maximum building height: 60 feet. For exceptions to height
regulations, see §
151.141;
      (6)   Additional requirements: uses permitted in LI Zoning Districts,
shall meet all standards set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145, pertaining to off-street parking, loading and other requirements;
      (7)   Aesthetics: uses permitted in LI Zoning Districts, including the
conditions under which they may be located must conform to standards set forth
in §§
151.075,
151.076 and
151.090 through
151.107; and
      (8)   Nuisance: no use shall be allowed in a BI Zoning District that
would constitute a nuisance to neighboring land uses because of noise, glare,
fire, odor, sound, vibrations or excess and unsafe traffic. Standards for these
uses are included in
Appendix A.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.057 BI BASIC INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The intent of the BI Basic Industrial District is to promote
the development and continued use of land for large-scale basic or primary
industrial purposes which involve extensive manufacturing, processing or
assembly operations; and preserve undeveloped sizable tracts of land with
industrial potential for industrial uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any BI Zoning
District:
      (1)   Any use permitted in any BI Zoning District, subject to the
standards set forth in this section;
      (2)   Any industrial use plus operations incidental to the use, which
involves manufacturing, processing or assembly operations or the storage and
sale of heavy materials, products or equipment; but not including junk or
salvage yards or uses which may cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibration,
smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazards, dangerous radiation or other
conditions objectionable to nearby areas, except under conditions as specified
in division (C) below;
      (3)   Warehouse; and
      (4)   Bulk storage of petroleum products.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted on a
conditional basis in any BI Zoning District, subject to the conditions set
forth in §
151.164:
      (1)   Retail or wholesale business or service; provided, the business or
service is incidental to a permitted industrial use and is located on the same
premises;
      (2)   Truck terminal; provided that, paved acceleration and deceleration
lanes at least ten feet in width and 100 feet in length, respectively, are
furnished and maintained where trucks enter or leave terminal sites; provided,
no safety hazard is produced on any access road; and, provided, sites for the
facilities have direct access to major streets;
      (3)   Private recreation facility; provided, the facility is incidental
to a permitted use and located on the same premises;
      (4)   Any industrial use, plus operations incidental to the use, which
may produce injurious or obnoxious noise, vibration, smoke, gas, fumes, odor,
dust, fire hazard, dangerous radiation or other objectionable conditions;
provided, the objectionable conditions do not adversely affect adjoining
properties; provided, the use is located at least 400 feet from any abutting
property line; and, provided, the use is located on a site at least ten acres
in size;
      (5)   Open yard use for the sale, rental and/or storage of new, used or
salvage materials, or equipment; provided, no burning of material or products
is conducted on the premise; and, in case of open storage of used or salvaged
materials and/or equipment; provided, a fence or wall of at least six feet in
height above finish grade will be required along all property lines, of the
consistency as to completely hide the use of the property from public view;
      (6)   Warehouse or other salvage facility; provided that, there is no
open storage of junk or salvage material of any type in conjunction with the
operation;
      (7)   Watchperson or caretaker’s one-family or two-family dwelling;
provided that, such a dwelling is located on the premises of a permitted use;
and, provided, the head of the household is employed by the industry as a
watchperson or caretaker;
      (8)   Dwelling incidental to a permitted agricultural or horticultural
use; provided that, the related dwellings are occupied only by persons employed
directly on the premises; and
      (9)   Garage or shop for the repair and servicing of motor vehicles,
equipment or machine parts provided any open yard storage incidental to an
operation conforms to the provisions of division (C)(5) above; and, provided,
no objectionable sound, vibration, heat, glare or electrical disturbance is
created which is perceptible beyond the premises.
   (D)   Other requirements. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, uses permitted in BI Basic Industrial Zoning Districts shall be
required to conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 25,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width measured at the building line: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum front yard measured from the nearest abutting street right-
of-way line: 25 feet;
      (4)   Minimum side yard: no less than ten feet on each side; except that,
when the property abuts another zoning district, 30 feet shall be required.
Where the district abuts any residential district not separated by a right-of-
way, a suitable planting screen, fence or wall of at least six feet in height
above finish grade will be required. For side yard requirements pertaining to
corner lots, see §§
151.122 and
151.124;
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet; except that, where the property abuts
another zoning district, 30 feet shall be required. Where the district abuts
any residential district not separated by a right-of-way, a suitable planting
screen, fence or wall of at least six feet in height above finish grade will be
required. For rear yard requirements pertaining to double frontage lots, see §
151.124;
      (6)   Maximum building height: no more than 60 feet, unless approved by
the Town Council. For exceptions to height regulations, see §
151.141;
      (7)   Additional requirements: uses permitted in BI Zoning Districts
shall meet all standards set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145, pertaining to off-street parking, loading and other requirements;
      (8)   Aesthetics: uses permitted in BI Zoning Districts, including the
conditions under which they may be located, must conform to standards set forth
in §§
151.075,
151.076 and
151.090 through
151.107; and
      (9)   Nuisance: no use shall be allowed in a BI Zoning District that
would constitute a nuisance to neighboring land uses because of noise, glare,
fire, odor, sound, vibrations or excess and unsafe traffic. Standards for these
uses are included in
Appendix A to this chapter.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.058 MH MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Mobile home parks. Mobile home parks shall be permitted on a
conditional basis in any MH Zoning District, subject to the following
conditions. Mobile home parks; provided:
      (1)   The density shall not exceed eight manufactured home units per
acre.
      (2)   Water and sewer hookups shall be provided for each manufactured
home site.
      (3)   All towing devices, wheels, axles, and hitches shall be removed.
      (4)   The home must be placed upon a foundation consisting of footings
and piers which meet the installation requirements of the Section 19-425.39,
Manufactured Home Minimum Installation as promulgated by the South Carolina
Manufactured Housing Board. Foundation and anchoring must comply with all
applicable requirements of the Building Code adopted by the Town of Calhoun
Falls at the time the manufactured home is placed on the site.
      (5)   A permanent landing and steps with handrails are required at each
exterior doorway. The structure must include steps which lead to the ground
level. All exterior exits of the home shall have a landing of no less than
three feet by three feet in size with 36-inch handrails.
      (6)   Skirting or a curtain wall, unpierced except for required
ventilation, and access door must be installed and may consist of brick,
masonry, block, stone, or similar materials designed and manufactured for
permanent outdoor installation. The minimum ventilation requirement shall be
one square foot of ventilation per 150 square feet of crawl space. All skirting
shall be able to withstand an 80 mile-per-hour wind zone standard. The
requirement of this division shall be complied with on or before final
inspection for this unit is made.
      (7)   A six-foot-high privacy fence, made of wood that provides a nearly
100% opacity level, shall be erected along all exterior property lines and
shall be maintained during operation of the mobile home park.
   (B)   Definitions. For definitions of the terms MOBILE HOME, MOBILE HOME
PARK, MOBILE HOME SPACE, CAMPER and TRAILER, see §
151.004.
   (C)   Existing mobile home parks. Existing mobile home parks not in
conformance with the provisions of this section in areas covered by these
regulations shall be considered as nonconforming uses and shall be governed by
the provisions regulating the uses under §§
151.120 through
151.145.
   (D)   Mobile home parks are prohibited without the approval from Mayor and
Council.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996; Ord. - -, passed - -; Ord. 24-121, passed 12-4-
2024)
Cross-reference:
   Mobile home parks general water provisions, see §
51.09
   Mobile home parks water rates and charges, see §
51.33
   Mobile home building regulations, see §
150.04
§ 151.059 FA FOREST AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent of district. It is the intent of this section that the FA
Zoning District be utilized for the general development of rural areas in and
around the town. The regulations which apply within this district are designed:
      (1)   To encourage the formation and continuance of a compatible
environment for rural areas;
      (2)   To provide the suitable services, commercial and otherwise, to
residents of FA Districts; and
      (3)   To discourage incompatible housing developments, commercial and/or
industrial operations or other uses capable of adversely affecting the basic
rural character of the district.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any FA Zoning
District subject to the development standards in §
151.051:
      (1)   All uses permitted in a CP Conservation-Preservation District, as
shown in §
151.050;
      (2)   All uses permitted, by right or by conditional use in a FC Zoning
District, as shown in §
151.051;
      (3)   One-family dwelling located on a lot containing not less than two
acres of land;
      (4)   One-family dwelling, accessory to farm operation on same property
with farm and occupied by full-time owners and laborers on the farm;
      (5)   One-family dwelling located on a lot containing not less than one
acre of land, if the structure is connected to a public water system;
      (6)   Individual mobile homes used for permanent residential purposes on
individual lots containing not less than two acres of land; and
      (7)   Commercial businesses or related activities existing at the time of
passage of this chapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be permitted in any FA
Zoning District; subject to conditions set forth herein below and in §
151.164:
      (1)   Junkyards; provided that:
         (a)   They are not within 2,000 feet of a church, historic landmark,
public park or any residential use or district;
         (b)   No open storage or discarded material exists;
         (c)   No open storage of any material subject to transfer by natural
elements exists; and
         (d)   All outside activities and materials are fully screened by
fences, trees, beams or natural landscaping at installation.
      (2)   Commercial kennels, stockyards and slaughter houses; provided that:
         (a)   They are not located within 2,000 feet of a residential use;
         (b)   They are properly buffered from all adjoining land uses at
inception of operations;
         (c)   No outside storage of waste is allowed; and
         (d)   They shall meet or exceed all federal and state standards and be
fully permitted before starting operations.
      (3)   Institutional uses; provided that, the Town Council has approved a
site plan including;
         (a)   A transportation plan;
         (b)   An emergency and evacuation plan;
         (c)   Proper buffering;
         (d)   A lighting plan;
         (e)   Potential recreation facilities;
         (f)   An environmental impact study including steps necessary to
implement recommendations; and
         (g)   Utility requirements and how they will be provided.
      (4)   Uses permitted by right or by condition in a LI District; provided,
all requirements and standards of that district, §
151.164 and the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The Planning Commission finds that location of the use will not
adversely impact surrounding areas; and
         (b)   A site plan demonstrating building materials, traffic
circulation and buffering has been approved by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Hazardous and nuclear waste facilities and disposal sites are
prohibited in the town to the fullest extent allowed under state and federal
law;
      (2)   Landfills and inert dump sites; and
      (3)   Facilities involving the discharge of firearms.
   (E)   Development standards. Unless relief is granted elsewhere in this
chapter, structures permitted in RD Zoning Districts shall be required to
conform to the standards for the LI District.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.060 SHD SCENIC HIGHWAY PROTECTION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Findings and purposes.
      (1)   The Town Council finds that:
         (a)   The protection of a scenic driving experience along selected
scenic roads and streets is required in the interest of fostering economic
development, civic pride, outdoor recreational opportunities and the general
welfare of the town’s residents;
         (b)   The preservation of natural and scenic corridors along
designated scenic highways will stabilize and enhance the economic vitality of
the town and will enhance property values in the town;
         (c)   The preservation of natural and scenic corridors will protect
and enhance the town’s attraction to tourists, visitors and new businesses;
         (d)   The preservation of scenic corridors will promote good design
and enhance the economic vitality of established commercial districts; and
         (e)   The control of curb cuts along highways promotes safe and
efficient traffic flow along those highways.
      (2)   The purposes of Scenic Highway Protection (SHD) District therefore
are:
         (a)   To protect and enhance the scenic beauty of the town and
especially of land adjacent to designated scenic highways by exercising the
reasonable control over land uses within the district to ensure that new
development will not unnecessarily detract from the natural beauty of
designated scenic highways;
         (b)   To provide for safe and efficient traffic flow on designated
scenic highways by preventing the proliferation of curb cuts and turning
traffic;
         (c)   To encourage development which is compatible with and enhances
the natural beauty of designated scenic highways and their corridors;
         (d)   To encourage economic activity that does not reduce the natural
beauty of the town’s open lands;
         (e)   To protect scenic vistas along designated scenic highways;
         (f)   To encourage orderly and sensitive development as appropriate
for scenic corridors;
         (g)   To ensure a safe and attractive driving experience and a
pleasant view free of clutter and visual blight along designated highways; and
         (h)   To protect and perpetuate the town’s natural and historic
heritage and to make that heritage available to the motoring public.
   (B)   SHD District established.
      (1)   The SHD District is established in accordance with the findings and
purposes stated above. The Appearance Review Committee may recommend and the
Town Council may create SHD districts along specified scenic roads and streets
(“scenic highways”) in accordance with the standards and provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   The SHD District shall apply as an overlay zoning district so that
the standards and requirements of the SHD District are superimposed over the
standards and requirements of the existing zoning district for an area. Any use
of land within any SHD District must comply with the standards and requirements
of both the underlying district and the SHD District. The provisions of the SHD
District shall apply in addition to other requirements of this chapter. In the
case of conflict, the most restrictive provisions shall govern.
      (3)   No land shall be used or occupied and no structure shall be
erected, altered, used or occupied within a SHD district, except as provided in
this chapter.
   (C)   Location of district. The boundaries of each SHD district shall be
drawn in a manner as to include all areas within the town jurisdiction that
have a visual impact from the designated scenic highway. The ARC shall take
into consideration such factors as topography and vegetation (evergreen and
deciduous) in establishing proposed boundaries.
   (D)   Review criteria/design guidelines. The Appearance Review Committee
shall promulgate design guidelines that apply to the SHD District. The
guidelines shall be adopted by Town Council and incorporated into this chapter
as
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (E)   Special exception required. No structure shall be erected or use
commenced unless a conditional use permit for the structure has been approved
by the Appearance Review Committee; provided that:
      (1)   A public hearing on the application shall be conducted, given 15
days’ notice of time and place;
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan presented in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the following additional
requirements.
         (a)   The location of all improvements on the site plan shall be
specifically indicated and no alteration or movement of a proposed improvement
in excess of ten feet shall be permitted without the approval of the Appearance
Review Committee.
         (b)   The site plan shall delineate construction lines. The site plan
shall indicate all building, parking, and vehicular use areas, and all areas of
proposed vegetation removal. Outside of the designated construction line, the
applicant shall leave undisturbed all areas of native vegetation including
trees, shrubs and understory vegetation.
         (c)   The site plan shall show the height of all proposed structures.
   (F)   Development criteria. In addition to the regular development criteria
prescribed for a given zoning district, the following criteria shall apply for
approval of a special exception for any proposed development within a
designated Scenic Highway Protection District. The Town Appearance Commission
shall grant a special exception for a use within the SHD District only if it
makes the findings determined by the Town Council.
   (G)   Waivers.
      (1)   An applicant presenting a site plan for approval may request, in
writing, a waiver from one or more of the requirements of this chapter. A
waiver may be granted by the Planning Board upon finding one of following
conditions:
         (a)   A requirement of this chapter would eliminate all economically
reasonable use or development of a parcel;
         (b)   A requirement of this chapter would serve no legitimate public
purpose due to the peculiar configuration, topography, location or surrounding
conditions of the parcel; and
         (c)   The provisions of this chapter shall exempt and shall not
prohibit the construction of a single-family dwelling on a lot platted prior to
the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   The ARC may approve any waiver to the minimum extent necessary to
alleviate the need for the waiver and should state the reasons for approving
the waiver in writing.
      (3)   In addition, the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant a variance from
the terms of this chapter in accordance with the standards set forth in § 13.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.061 PMD PLANNED MIXED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes of district. The Planned Mixed Development District (PMD) is
established to allow planned development as an option in designated areas. The
purposes of this section are to provide an alternative form of development
that:
      (1)   Eliminates standards dimensional requirements while reserving
sufficient natural open space for common use;
      (2)   Enhances the physical appearance of the town by preserving the
town’s natural assets and distinctive character;
      (3)   Promotes more efficient use of land and provision of public
facilities, utilities, streets and services;
      (4)   Provides the opportunity for innovative combinations of housing,
light industrial, commercial, recreation/tourism uses and professional services
within a single development;
      (5)   Conserves natural and environmental resources and the integrity of
natural systems;
      (6)   Encourages innovative mixture of development so that land use
demands are met by a greater variety of types, designs and layouts of
structures and infrastructure;
      (7)   Provides a mechanism to relate the type, design and layout of
proposed development to the specific characteristics of a particular parcel;
and
      (8)   Encourages creative and site-sensitive developments by allowing
increased overall density in exchange for planned mixed development pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All planned mixed developments shall permit the following
residential, community, institutional, commercial and tourism uses:
         (a)   Detached single-family dwellings;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings;
         (c)   Multi-family dwellings;
         (d)   Accessory buildings or uses;
         (e)   Recreation or park facilities;
         (f)   Retirement facilities;
         (g)   Municipal buildings or uses;
         (h)   Schools;
         (i)   Churches;
         (j)   Boat marinas;
         (k)   Hotels and other recreational tourism facilities;
         (l)   Retail stores;
         (m)   Personal services;
         (n)   Business and professional offices;
         (o)   Restaurants;
         (p)   Day care centers;
         (q)   Community walls; and
         (r)   Municipal service lots.
      (2)   Planned mixed developments comprising 50 acres or more may contain
light industrial uses, as defined in §
151.056; provided, the industry, in no way, involves any junk or salvage
operations, no open storage of junk or salvage materials, and that any noise,
vibration, smoke, gas, fume, odor, dust, fire hazard, dangerous radiation or
other injurious or obnoxious conditions related to the operation are not
sufficient to create a nuisance beyond the premises.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   Planned mixed developments shall contain not less than 20 acres.
      (2)   Planned mixed developments shall be served by municipal water and
sewer service.
      (3)   Allowable base residential density. Overall residential density
shall not exceed eight dwelling units per acre dedicated to uses other than the
commercial uses set forth in division (B)(2) above. This base residential
density may be increased by the Town Council pursuant to the density bonus
options contained in division (F) below.
      (4)   Conservation lands. Lands with the following characteristics shall
not be developed and shall not be platted as part of a residential, community,
institutional, commercial or light industrial lot within a planned mixed
development: land within the 100-year floodplain; land with a natural slope in
excess of 40%, as determined by standard slope computation methods; and
nontidal wetlands. These lands shall be designated on the plat for conservation
purposes. Conservation lands may be used in computing the allowable base
residential density.
   (D)   Open space standards.
      (1)   Planned mixed developments shall reserve a minimum of 35% of the
acreage of the parcel as dedicated natural open space.
      (2)   Up to 25% of this requirement may be satisfied with land covered by
storm water detention or retention basins, if the Town Council determines that
a water body or basin is suitable for the purposes set forth in division (A)
above. The dedicated open space shall not be included in subdivision lots or in
lot size calculations. Dedicated open space shall include the land necessary to
provide access to the open space.
      (3)   Land characterized as conservation lands in division (C)(4) above
may be used to fulfill the minimum dedicated natural open space requirement at
the following ratio: one acre of conservation land may be applied to the
natural open space requirement as one-half of an acre. A maximum of 50% of the
total dedicated natural open space within a planned mixed development may be
fulfilled with conservation lands.
      (4)   Dedicated open space shall have shape, dimension, character,
location and topography to accomplish the open space purposes specified in
division (A) above and to ensure appropriate public access.
      (5)   Dedicated open space land shall be shown on the preliminary planned
mixed development plat and shall be labeled to specify that the land has been
dedicated to open space purposes. The plat shall specify that the open space
land shall not be further subdivided or developed and is permanently reserved
for natural open space purposes.
      (6)   (a)   Dedicated open space may include the following public
property at the town’s discretion:
            1.   Portions of Lake R.B. Russell;
            2.   Land designated as collar land or operational property
controlled by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; and
            3.   Property designated as federal or state parks.
         (b)   Public property designated as dedicated open space shall be
shown on the preliminary planned mixed development plat. No conveyance is
required for public property; public property shall be maintained by the
appropriate public agency.
      (7)   The open space shall be conveyed by the applicant as a condition of
plat approval and may be conveyed by any of the following means as determined
by the Town Council:
         (a)   Deeded in perpetuity to a governmental body;
         (b)   Reserved for common use or ownership of all property owners
within the development by covenants in the deeds approved by the Town Attorney.
A copy of the proposed deed covenants shall be submitted with the application;
         (c)   Deeded in perpetuity to a private, non-profit, tax-exempt
organization legally constituted for conservation purposes under terms and
conditions that ensure the perpetual protection and management of the property
for conservation purposes. A copy of the proposed deeds and relevant corporate
documents of the land trust shall be submitted with the application; and
         (d)   Deeded to a property owner’s association within the development
upon terms and conditions approved by the County Attorney that will ensure the
continued use and management of the land for the intended purposes. The
formation and incorporation by the applicant of one or more appropriate
property owners’ associations shall be required prior to plat approval. A copy
of the proposed property owner’s deed and the by-laws and other relevant
documents of the property owner’s association shall be submitted with the
application. The following shall be required if open space is to be dedicated
to a property owner’s association.
            1.   Covenant providing for mandatory membership in the association
and setting forth the owner’s rights, interests and privileges in the
association and the common land must be included in the deed for each lot or
unit.
            2.   The property owners’ association shall have the responsibility
of maintaining the open space and operating and maintaining recreational
facilities.
            3.   The association shall have the authority to levy charges
against all property owners to defray the expenses connected with the
maintenance of open space and recreational facilities.
            4.   The applicant shall maintain control of dedicated open land
and be responsible for its maintenance until development sufficient to support
the association has taken place.
      (8)   The applicant shall convey or restrict the open space land by a
deed instrument reviewed and approved by the County Attorney to ensure that the
land will be held and managed in perpetuity for open space purposes and shall
not be further developed.
      (9)   Streets and other impervious surfaces shall be excluded from the
calculation of the minimum dedicated open space requirement; however, lands
occupied by bike paths, landscaped grounds or similar common recreational
development (excluding tennis courts, golf courses and buildings) may be
counted as dedicated natural open space; provided that, impervious surfaces
constitute no more than 5% of the total required open space.
      (10)   Open space shall be permanently dedicated for one or more of the,
following uses: natural resource conservation, wet land and water course
preservation, selective forestry, wildlife habitat, undeveloped parkland or
scenic preservation.
   (E)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   The number, design, location and construction of parking lots,
bays, spaces and drives shall conform to the applicable requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Parking areas shall be planted with trees a minimum of three inches
in caliper measured six inches above ground level, so that there is at least
one tree per ten parking spaces within the parking lot. The trees must be
staked with two three-inch diameter stakes and protected by curbing against
damage by vehicles. A minimum planting area, equivalent to 162 square feet per
tree shall be provided.
      (3)   Parking areas shall have a landscaped island at each end of each
row of vehicle spaces and an intermediate island for every 15 or fewer vehicle
spaces. The planting islands shall be not less than nine feet wide in the
direction parallel to the row and not less than 18 feet long in the direction
perpendicular to the row. Each island shall have a suitable curb of stone or
poured-in-place concrete, and shall be planted with grass or ground cover. All
hydrants shall be located in the islands.
   (F)   Landscaping and screening.
      (1)   Screening of nonresidential uses. Nonresidential uses shall be
screened from residential uses within and abutting the planned neighborhood
development by a bufferyard 20 feet in width containing at least three canopy
trees, six understory trees and nine shrubs per 100 feet of length along with
perimeter of the lot line abutting a residential use.
      (2)   Screening along public roadways. Uses within a planned neighborhood
development which abut an arterial or collector street shall be screened by a
bufferyard of 20 feet in width containing at least five canopy trees, ten
understory trees and 15 shrubs per 100 feet of frontage. Canopy trees shall be
deciduous shade trees planted at three inches in caliper with a mature height
of at least 35 feet. Understory trees shall be deciduous shade or fruit trees
planted at two inches in caliper with a mature height of at least 12 feet.
      (3)   Existing vegetation. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, existing vegetation shall be retained and maintained to the extent
feasible in order to permit existing vegetation to fulfill or contribute to
buffer and screening requirements. In lieu of strict compliance with the above
bufferyard requirements, a developer may submit a detailed landscaping plan
which will afford a degree of buffering and screening comparable to that
provided by these regulations making use of existing and new vegetation.
      (4)   Screening of refuse collection facilities. Uses within a planned
neighborhood development shall provide secure, safe and sanitary facilities for
the storage and pickup of refuse. The facilities shall be convenient to
collection and shall be appropriate to the type and size of use being served.
All refuse storage facilities shall be screened on three sides by a solid
wooden fence or masonry wall and a tight evergreen hedge. The fourth side shall
be angled to minimize the view of the refuse collection facility or shall be
screened by an opaque gate made of durable materials. The screening shall be of
sufficient height and design to effectively screen the facility from the view
from nearby residential uses, streets, adjacent properties and recreational
facilities.
   (G)   Density bonuses. A residential light industrial, or general commercial
density bonus of up to 20% of the allowable base density may be approved in
accordance with the following standards. Density bonuses may be granted at the
discretion of the Town Council, if it finds that a proposed density bonus
promotes the purposes of the planned mixed development.
      (1)   Dedicated open space. Increasing the dedicated natural open space
within the parcel by a minimum of 10% of the gross acreage may qualify for a
bonus of up to 5% above the allowable base density. Priority shall be given to
protecting existing stands of mature trees.
      (2)   Bikeways/greenways. A system of bike paths and pedestrian greenways
may qualify for a density bonus of up to 5% above the allowable base density.
In order to qualify, the bike paths or greenways shall form an integrated
system of access within the development and to principal off-site destinations.
      (3)   Walk-up housing. A dwelling unit located above the ground floor of
a structure that contains a nonresidential use on the ground floor may be
applied toward the allowable base density as one-half of a dwelling unit. A
maximum of 5% of the total dwelling units within a planned mixed development
located within a structure that also contains a nonresidential use on the
ground floor may be applied at this one-half credit.
      (4)   Community and institutional uses.
         (a)   In a PMD with 50 or more resident units or lots, a governmental
service lot may be designated and dedicated. The lot shall be the greater of
one-half acre or 1% of the total acreage of the PMD. Provision of such a lot
shall qualify for a density bonus of 1% of allowable base density.
         (b)   In a PMD with 75 or more residential units, a parcel may be
designated, dedicated and developed for use as a day care center. This lot
shall have a minimum of 100 square feet per residential unit within the PMD.
Provision of such a facility shall qualify for a density bonus of 2%.
         (c)   In a PMD with 100 or more residential lots or units, a community
hall may be constructed, with an enclosed area of no less than 25 square feet
for each residential unit or lot. Provision of such a building shall qualify
for a density bonus of 2%.
   (H)   Traffic improvements. When a proposed planned neighborhood development
borders on an existing street whose right-of-way, traffic carrying capacity or
sight lines are inadequate to safely and efficiently accommodate the traffic
generated by the proposed development, the Town Council may require the
applicant to dedicate land for needed realignments or widening and to undertake
or fund the needed street improvements.
   (I)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   Street setbacks. No structure shall be closer than 25 feet to a
local street and no closer than 50 feet to any other street.
      (2)   Building separation. No structure under 30 feet in height shall be
located within 15 feet of any other structure. Buildings higher than 30 feet
shall be separated by a distance equivalent to 50% of the height of the tallest
building.
      (3)   Height limits. The height limits within a planned mixed development
shall be the same as the height limits set forth in this chapter for structures
in the R-8 Residential District.
   (J)   Perimeter boundary.
      (1)   No portion of a building, structure or parking area shall be
located within 55 feet of abutting property that is not part of the proposed
planned mixed development.
      (2)   No portion of a nonresidential use, multi-family residential use,
community use, institutional use or active recreational use shall be located
within 110 feet of abutting property that is not part of the proposed planned
mixed development.
      (3)   The minimum front yard requirement of the R-8 Zoning District shall
apply for a minimum of 200 feet from the border of a planned mixed development
and adjoining property that share footage on the same side of a street.
   (K)   Multi-family residential development standards.
      (1)   Multi-family. Multi-family housing shall be either townhouses or
multiplexes.
      (2)   Townhouses. The maximum number of dwelling units permitted within a
townhouse structure shall be eight. Townhouse structures shall be developed in
compliance with the following requirements.
         (a)   There shall be no less than two parking spaces for each
townhouse unit.
         (b)   Walkways of four feet in width, constructed of concrete or brick
or similar material, shall be installed from parking areas to townhouse units
served by the parking areas.
         (c)   Accessory buildings shall be limited to one enclosed storage
shed not exceeding seven feet in height nor exceeding ten feet in length by ten
feet in width.
         (d)   The facades of townhouse units shall have variation in materials
and design so that abutting units will not have the same or essentially the
same architectural treatment of facades and roof lines. Garages or carports
shall not be allowed in front of townhouse units.
      (3)   Multiplexes. The maximum number of dwelling units permitted within
a multiplex structure shall be four. Multiplex structures shall be developed in
compliance with the following requirements.
         (a)   There shall be no less than two parking spaces for each unit.
         (b)   Walkways of four feet in width, constructed of concrete or brick
or similar material, shall be installed from parking areas to multiplex units
served by the parking areas.
         (c)   Accessory buildings shall be prohibited.
   (L)   Utilities. Utilities, such as electric transmission, cable television
lines and telephone lines, serving the open space subdivision shall be
installed underground unless the Town Council grants a waiver of this
provision. The Town Council may grant a waiver if it finds that underground
installation would be exceptionally difficult due to unusual subsurface
conditions or topographic conditions that are not generally found on other
property in the area and granting the waiver will not have a significant
adverse effect on adjacent property.
   (M)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures shall not be located in any
front yard or within five feet of any be located within any front other
structure.
   (N)   Neighborhood recreational uses. A minimum of 335 square feet for each
residential unit shall be dedicated and developed for neighborhood recreational
use to serve the recreational demands generated by the planned neighborhood
development. This may be derived from existing park and recreational facilities
currently within the boundaries of the PMD District.
   (O)   Commercial and light industrial uses development standards.
      (1)   Commercial and light industrial uses are defined in §§
151.054 and
151.056, respectively.
      (2)   The land dedicated to commercial and light industrial uses shall
not exceed 60% of the total acreage of the PMD district.
      (3)   Commercial and light industrial uses shall be designed and located
with the intention of promoting the overall economic development of the town as
well as serving the immediate needs of residents within and adjacent to the PMD
district.
   (P)   Appearance review.
      (1)   Appearance review in conformity herewith shall be required for all
proposed light industrial commercial, community, institutional or residential
development within a planned mixed development to ensure conformity with the
appearance standards.
      (2)   Compliance with the requirements for appearance review shall be
required in addition to all other requirements.
      (3)   Appearance review will occur after rezoning, not as an element of
rezoning.
   (Q)   Definitions for this section. For the purpose of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      COMMUNITY HALL. A structure designed and constructed for civic uses and
shall include a community meeting room, a library annex, space dedicated to
historical or cultural displays or uses, athletic or exercise facilities or
uses deemed by the Commission to be similar in intent and function with this
section.
      NEIGHBORHOOD RECREATION USE. This term shall include basketball courts,
tennis courts, playgrounds, tot lots, picnic areas and the like.
      NONTIDAL WETLANDS. Those wetlands other than tidal wetlands that are
inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency or duration
sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, as defined by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to
33 U.S.C. § 1344 of the Clean Water Act as amended.
      PLANNED MIXED DEVELOPMENT. Used in two contexts. Depending upon the
context, PLANNED MIXED DEVELOPMENT refers to the development authorized by this
chapter or a project which is proposed for consideration under this chapter.
      PLANNED NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT. Used in two contexts. Depending upon
the context, PLANNED NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT refers to the development
authorized by this chapter or a project which is proposed for consideration
under this chapter.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.062 HLD HISTORIC LANDMARKS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is:
         (a)   To protect, preserve and enhance the distinctive architectural
heritage of the town;
         (b)   To promote the educational, cultural, economic and general
welfare of the people of the town;
         (c)   To foster civic pride;
         (d)   To ensure harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and
development of the town;
         (e)   To strengthen the local economy; and
         (f)   To stabilize and improve property values.
      (2)   It is the hope of the Town Council that by encouraging a general
harmony of style, form, color, proportion, texture and material between
buildings of historic design and those of contemporary design, it will be
possible for the town’s historic landmarks and districts to continue to be a
distinctive aspect of the town and to serve as visible reminders of the
significant historical and cultural heritage of the town and the state.
   (B)   Historic Landmarks Commission.
      (1)   Creation. In order to implement the provisions of this chapter,
there is hereby established the Historic Landmarks Commission, hereinafter
referred to as the “Commission”, consisting of seven residents of the town.
      (2)   Appointment. Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the
Town Council. Membership of the Commission will consist of citizens with a
demonstrated interest in historic preservation and who are able to prepare for
and attend meetings. It shall be the policy of the Town Council to seek
citizens for appointment to the Commission who have either educational
backgrounds or work experience involving architecture, history, planning,
engineering, law, banking or real estate. Further rules of procedure and
appointment for the Commission are included with the Rules of Procedure
included in Hisotric Preservation Ordinance guidelines as recommended in the
Comprehensive Planning Guide for local governments and are incorporated here
within.
      (3)   Duties and powers, general. It shall be the duty of the Commission
to promote the purposes and objectives of this chapter and to review plans and
applications, as hereinafter provided, for all construction within historic
districts or pertaining to duly designated historic landmarks, including both
modifications to existing buildings, demolitions and construction to new
buildings. The Commission shall have the power to approve or deny approval of
the applications in accordance to prescribed procedures and guidelines.
   (C)   Meetings rules and records. The Commission shall promulgate and the
Town Council shall approve regulations for meeting and records of the
Commission. These rules are attached as part of
Appendix A of this chapter.
   (D)   Survey and inventory of historic properties. The Commission may
authorize an ongoing survey and inventory of historic properties; provided, the
survey is conducted in accordance with professional standards and under the
qualified supervision of the State Historic Preservation Office. The survey
shall follow procedures described in The South Carolina Historic Preservation
Program: Survey Manual.
   (E)   Jurisdiction of the Historic Landmarks Commission.
      (1)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the Commission to review proposed
alterations to exteriors and buildings, new construction and demolition shall
be the following:
         (a)   A distance of 500 feet from the property line of a building or
areas within the zoning authority of the town which have been accepted to the
National Register of Historic Places kept by the U.S. Department of the
Interior;
         (b)   A distance of 500 feet from the property line of buildings or
groups of buildings within the zoning authority of the town which have been
designated a local historic landmark by the Town Council upon the
recommendation of the Commission; and
         (c)   Areas within the zoning authority of the town which have been
designated a historic district by the Town Council upon the recommendation of
the Commission.
      (2)   Designation of historic landmarks and Historic Districts.
         (a)   The Commission may recommend to the Town Council the designation
as a historic landmark or as a historic district any individual building, group
of buildings or sites it deems to be important to the history, culture and
heritage of the people and the town.
         (b)   When considering whether a building, structure, site, object or
district should be designated historic by the Town Council, the following
criteria should be considered:
            1.   It is associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of the town’s history;
            2.   It is associated with the lives of persons significant in the
town’s past;
            3.   It embodies the distinctive characteristics of the type,
period or method of construction, that represents the work of a master, that
possesses high artistic values or that represent a significant and
distinguishable entity whose components may lack individual distinction;
            4.   It has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information
important in prehistory or history; and/or
            5.   It is important in preserving areas which embody physical
resources of unique value in the cultural development of the community.
      (3)   Action by Town Council. Designation as a Historic Landmark or
Historic District or the expansion of a historic district shall not become
effective until officially adopted by the Town Council. Owners of properties
proposed to be designated historic shall be notified in writing 30 days prior
to consideration by Town Council. Owners may appear before the Council to voice
approval or opposition to the designation.
      (4)   Identification on Zoning Map. Any national register landmark,
locally designated landmark or historic district shall be superimposed on the
Zoning Map of the town. The boundaries of any Historic District designated by
the Town Council shall be clearly shown on the zoning map.
      (5)   Appeal. Any property owner may appeal the decision of the Town
Council before the courts of the state.
   (F)   Nominations to national register of historic places.
      (1)   The Commission may designate and recommend the nomination of
buildings, structures, sites objects or districts to the National Register of
Historic Places. When considering whether a building, structure site, object or
district should be nominated, the Commission should apply the following
national register criteria.
      (2)   The quality of significance in American history, architecture,
archeology engineering and culture is present in districts, sites, buildings,
structures and objects that possess integrity of location design setting,
materials, workmanship, feeling and association:
         (a)   Are associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of the town’s history;
         (b)   Are associated with the lives of persons significant in the
town’s past;
         (c)   Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or
method of construction, that represent the work of a master, that possess high
artistic values or that represent a significant and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction; or
         (d)   Have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important
in prehistory or history.
      (3)   The Commission shall conduct first review and evaluation of all
proposed national register nominations within its jurisdiction, including any
which may have been submitted to the State Historic Preservation Office, and
shall forward all reviewed nominations to the SHPO with recommendations for
consideration by the State Board of Review. Property owners will be notified
when their property is being nominated to the national register and that there
will be public notification for all nominations to be considered by the
Commission. The Commission shall not have the authority to nominate properties
directly to the national register; only the State Board of Review shall have
this final review authority.
   (G)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses. All uses permitted by the town, either by right or
as a special use, shall be permitted in areas designated historic by the Town
Council in accordance with provisions of this chapter, adopted by the Town
Council.
      (2)   Dimensional regulations. Structures designated historic by the
County Council shall observe the dimensional and other regulations provided for
in this chapter.
   (H)   Maintenance and repair. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural
feature of structures designated as historic which does not involve a change in
design, material, color or outer appearance thereof, nor to prevent the
construction, reconstruction, alteration or demolition of any feature which the
Building Inspector or similar official shall certify is required for the public
safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition.
   (I)   Certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   General. Prior to any demolition, new construction, alteration,
modification or addition to a designated historic landmark or within an area
designated as a historic district by the Town Council, a certificate of
appropriateness from the Historic Landmarks Commission shall be required. The
town shall require a certificate of appropriateness to be issued by the
Commission prior to the issuance of a building permit for the purposes of
construction, alteration, moving or demolition for property affected by this
chapter. Any building permit or other permit not issued in conformity with this
section shall be considered void.
      (2)   Interior alterations to structures. The Commission shall not
consider interior arrangement or any alteration to the interior of any
structure designated as historic.
      (3)   Requirements of public utilities. All governments and public
utility companies shall be required to obtain approval from the Commission in
accordance with this chapter prior to initiating any changes in the character
of street paving sidewalks, trees, utility installations, lighting, walls,
fences, structures and buildings on property designated historic by the Town
Council.
      (4)   Contents of application and procedure. The Commission shall, by
uniform rule in its rules of procedure, require data as are reasonably
necessary to determine the nature of the application and establish a procedure
for considering this application. These procedures are attached as an amendment
and incorporated here within.
      (5)   Substantial hardship. In the event an application for a certificate
of appropriateness is denied, the property owner may apply for an exception
based on the substantial hardship of maintaining the property according to the
Commission’s guidelines. Substantial hardship is to be considered by the
Commission where there are unusual and compelling circumstances, such as:
         (a)   The property has little or no historic value;
         (b)   The property cannot be reasonably maintained in the manner
dictated by this chapter;
         (c)   There is no other reasonable means of saving the property from
deterioration or collapse; or
         (d)   The property is owned by a nonprofit organization and it is not
financially or physically feasible to achieve the charitable purposes of the
organization.
   (J)   Review criteria.
      (1)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to ensure, insofar as
possible, that buildings or structures designated as historic shall be in
harmony with the architectural and historical character of the town. In
granting a certificate of appropriateness, the Commission shall take into
account the architectural or historical significance of the structure under
consideration and the exterior form and appearance of any proposed additions or
modifications to that structure as well as the effect of the change or
additions upon other structures in the vicinity.
      (2)   Demolition.
         (a)   No building or structure designated as historic shall be
demolished or otherwise removed until the owner thereof has received a
certificate of appropriateness from the Commission. The Commission may delay
the granting of the certificate of appropriateness for a period of up to 180
days from the time of the filing of the application with the designated
official. The Commission may extend this postponement for a certificate of
appropriateness with regards to a request to demolish a structure for another
180 days after a finding by the Commission that the structure is of extreme
historical importance to the people of the town.
         (b)   Within the period of postponement of the demolition of any
building, the Commission shall take steps to ascertain what can be done to
preserve the buildings. The steps shall include, but will not be limited to,
consultation with civic groups, interested citizens and public boards and
agencies.
         (c)   After the postponement period has elapsed and the Commission has
been unable to determine an adequate alternative to demolition, the certificate
of appropriateness shall be granted. If the Commission finds that a building
proposed for demolition is of no particular historical significance or value
towards maintaining the historical character of the town, it may issue the
certificate of appropriateness in the normal manner.
      (3)   Alteration, repair or restoration. When considering an application
for a certificate of appropriateness for alteration, repair or restoration, the
Commission shall use the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation as guidelines in making its decisions. These guidelines are to
serve as the basis for determining the approval, approval with modification or
denial of certificate of appropriateness. These guidelines are attached and
incorporated into this chapter.
   (K)   Specific guidelines; new construction. In considering an application
for a certificate of appropriateness, the character of the property,
neighborhood or environment must be received in accordance with guidelines
established in the rules of procedure for the Town Historic Landmarks
Commission, which is attached as Historic Preservation Ordinance guidelines as
recommended in the Comprehensive Planning Guide for local governments.
   (L)   Appeal of a decision of the Commission.
      (1)   Pursuant to the S.C. Code § 5-23-240, no suit shall be brought
against the Historic Landmarks Commission or the town and not against any
individual Commission member, it shall be dismissed as to a board member.
      (2)   Any persons or any officer, department or board aggrieved by any
final decision of the Commission must follow procedures for appeal as outlined
in S.C. Code § 5-23-340.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
AESTHETIC REGULATIONS
§ 151.075 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Landscaping required in parking areas for proposed commercial,
professional, office, institutional and multi-family residential development.
      (1)   Parking areas shall be planted with trees, a minimum of four inches
in caliper measured six inches above ground level, so that there is at least
one tree per ten parking spaces within the parking lot. The trees must be
staked with two three-inch diameter stakes and protected by curbing against
damage by vehicles. A minimum planting area, equivalent to 18 square feet per
tree shall be provided.
      (2)   Parking areas shall have a landscaped island at each end of each
row of vehicle spaces and an intermediate island for every 15 vehicle spaces.
The planting islands shall be not less than nine feet wide in the direction
parallel to the row and not less than 20 feet long in the direction
perpendicular to the row. Each island shall have a suitable curb of stone or
poured-in-place concrete and shall be planted with grass or ground cover. All
hydrants shall be located in the islands.
   (B)   Landscaped buffer between residential and nonresidential uses.
Nonresidential vehicular areas shall be set back at least 25 feet from any
property line abutting land used for residential purposes or located in a
residential zone. The setback areas shall be provided with screening along each
side of the property line abutting the residential zone or use. The screening
shall be in the form of evergreen trees, a minimum of eight feet high planted
not more than ten feet apart, along the extent of the vehicular area facing a
residential zone or use.
   (C)   Protection of existing trees. Significant trees shall be clearly
marked for preservation, on the site plan and in the field. The trees shall be
protected during construction by cribbing. CRIBBING shall consist of a six-foot
high snow fence which shall surround the tree trunk at a distance not closer
than three feet from it, and which shall be braced and held in position by
four-by-four-inch wood posts set into the ground. Damaged trees shall be
repaired by a reputable tree surgeon. Any tree marked for preservation which is
removed or damaged beyond satisfactory repair shall be replaced with the same
or similar species, six inches in caliper as measured at six inches above
ground level, which shall be balled, burlapped and platformed.
   (D)   Screening of security fences. When the proposed site plan includes the
installation of security fences necessary for the operation and maintenance of
permissible uses, the Planning Commission may require that the fences be
adequately screened from public view.
   (E)   Lighting standards. The maximum allowable height of any light fixture
shall be 14 feet from the ground to the highest point of the fixture.
   (F)   Sidewalks and walkpaths. To provide safe pedestrian access, sidewalks
and walkpaths shall be constructed in locations as may be required by the
Planning Board. When required, sidewalks shall be four feet wide and walkpaths
shall be three feet wide.
   (G)   Additional screening, landscaping, buffering. The Planning Commission
shall retain the right to require additional screening, landscaping or
buffering as deemed necessary to protect adjacent land uses from glare.
   (H)   Administration. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, a
developer shall present to the Planning Commission a plan demonstrating
significant trees and the plan for protection of the trees and installation of
proper landscaping measures as required by this chapter. Failure to present
adequate information or the presentation of knowingly false information shall
be grounds for denial of a building permit.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.076 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT APPEARANCE REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. Commercial development appearance review shall be required
for all proposed commercial or office development in all zoning districts.
Compliance with the requirements for commercial development appearance review
shall be required in addition to the requirements of the underlying zoning
district. The purpose of commercial development appearance review is:
      (1)   To promote the town’s economic viability by encouraging commercial
development that enhances the character of the community;
      (2)   To enhance and protect property values by encouraging excellent
design; and
      (3)   To encourage architectural freedom, imagination and variety and to
encourage creative design solutions that will enhance the town’s visual
appearance.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE. The Committee responsible for ensuring that
proposed commercial development complies with the appearance review standards
for proposed commercial development.
      PROPOSED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT. All new exterior construction or
addition which adds square footage associated with commercial uses except for
maintenance, minor repairs, restoration and temporary structures. Commercial
uses includes all retail, business and office uses.
   (C)   Site plan.
      (1)   A site plan prepared by a registered engineer or architect shall be
submitted for all proposed commercial development.
      (2)   The site plans shall be drawn to scale and shall be accompanied by
a narrative, as appropriate, showing and outlining the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant and site;
         (b)   Scale and north point;
         (c)   Total land area of site in square feet;
         (d)   Property boundaries;
         (e)   Location and dimensions of parking areas;
         (f)   Number of off-street and on-street parking spaces required by
regulations and proposed;
         (g)   Location, use, elevations and dimensions of proposed buildings
and buildings within 50 feet of the site boundaries;
         (h)   Location and dimensions of proposed easements, conduits and
rights-of-way;
         (i)   Existing and proposed materials, including the type of plants,
landscaping and plant size, number and spacing;
         (j)   Type, height and location of night lighting;
         (k)   Location and height of proposed signs; proposed setbacks of
signs, elevation of each face of the proposed sign; size of letters and
graphics; colors and frame materials and details;
         (l)   Loading areas and facilities;
         (m)   Pedestrian access;
         (n)   Location, height and details of walls and fences;
         (o)   Curb cuts; and
         (p)   Designation of the kind, color and texture of all exterior
materials.
   (D)   Appearance review.
      (1)   Commercial development appearance review by the Appearance Review
Committee shall be required for all zoning permits and special exceptions for
proposed commercial development to ensure conformity with the appearance
standards.
      (2)   Appearance Review Committee.
         (a)   Purpose. The Appearance Review Committee shall be responsible
for making recommendations on zoning and special exception permit applications
for proposed commercial development.
         (b)   Membership. The Appearance Review Committee shall consist of the
members of the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Organization.
            1.   The Chairperson of the Planning Commission shall serve as the
Chairperson of the Appearance Review Committee.
            2.   The Appearance Review Committee shall operate under the
procedures and rules that govern the actions of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   Relationship of building site.
         (a)   The proposed commercial development shall be designed and sited
to accomplish a desirable view as observed from adjacent streets.
         (b)   Parking areas shall be enhanced with decorative elements,
building wall extensions, plantings, berms or other innovative means to screen
parking areas from view from the streets.
         (c)   Utility services shall be underground.
      (2)   Relationship to adjoining areas.
         (a)   Adjacent buildings of different architectural styles shall be
made compatible by use of screens, sight breaks, materials and other methods.
         (b)   Landscaping shall provide a transition to adjoining property.
         (c)   Texture, building lines and mass shall be harmonious with
adjoining property. Monotonous texture, lines and mass shall be avoided.
      (3)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall conform to §
151.075 and other sections of this chapter.
   (F)   Building design.
      (1)   Architectural style is not restricted. Quality of design and
compatibility with surrounding uses shall provide the basis of the evaluation
of the appearance of a proposed commercial development.
      (2)   Materials shall be of good architectural character and shall be
harmonious with adjoining buildings.
      (3)   Materials shall be suitable for the type and design of the
building. Materials which are architecturally harmonious shall be used for all
exterior building walls and other exterior building components.
      (4)   Materials and finishes shall be of durable quality.
      (5)   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves and parapets,
shall have appropriate proportion and relationships to one another.
      (6)   Colors shall be harmonious and shall use compatible accents.
      (7)   Mechanical equipment or other utility hardware on roof, ground or
buildings shall be screened from view with materials harmonious with the
building.
      (8)   Monotony of design shall be avoided. Variation in vegetation,
detail, form and siting shall be used to provide visual interest.
   (G)   Signs.
      (1)   Signs shall conform to the provisions of §§
151.090 through
151.107.
      (2)   Every sign shall be of appropriate scale and proportion in relation
to the surrounding buildings.
      (3)   Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element
of the building and site to which it relates.
      (4)   The colors, materials and lighting of every sign shall be
harmonious with the building and site to which it relates.
      (5)   The number of graphic elements on a sign shall be held to the
minimum needed to convey the sign’s principal message and shall be in
proportion to the area of the sign.
      (6)   Each sign shall be compatible with signs on adjoining plots or
buildings.
      (7)   Corporation logos shall conform to the criteria for all other
signs.
   (H)   Miscellaneous structures. Miscellaneous structures and hardware shall
be part of the architectural concept of the project. Materials, scale and
colors shall be compatible with the building and surrounding uses.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
SIGNS
§ 151.090 TYPES OF SIGNS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The regulations herein shall apply and govern all zoning districts. No
sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance with the
regulations of this subchapter, except a nonconforming sign which shall comply
with the provisions set forth in §§
151.120 through
151.145.
   (B)   A general definition of what constitutes a “sign” is included in §
151.004. Within this definition, the following specific terms and standards
shall apply.
      BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign that contains the name of the
business enterprise located on the same premises as the sign and the nature of
the business conducted there. These signs shall be attached to a pole or
permanent structure and should not exceed 20 feet in height and 65 feet in
area. Only one sign per establishment shall be allowed, which must be set back
ten feet from any property line.
      GROUND SIGN. A sign erected low to the ground which is supported by
uprights or braces in or upon the ground and often used to identify large
buildings or institutions. The maximum height of the signs are eight feet above
normal ground level and the maximum area is 80 square feet. One sign per
establishment shall be allowed and must be set back 15 feet from any property
line.
      HOME OCCUPATION IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used to identify a home
occupation to be attached to the wall of a structure. The sign shall not exceed
two square feet and shall be non-illuminated. One such sign per lot is allowed.
      MARQUEE SIGN. A projecting sign attached to or hung from a marquee and
the marquee shall be known to mean a canopy or covered structure projection
from and supported by a building, when the canopy or covered structure extends
beyond the building, building line or property line. The sign shall not cover
more than 15% of the area of the marquee to which it is affixed. One sign per
wall of establishment is allowable.
      OFF-PREMISE ADVERTISING. A structure which advertises or attracts
attention to, or directs persons to a business activity located on other than
the premises where the structure is erected. Nationally advertised products or
services shall not be deemed to be located on or carried on at the premises of
local retail outlets or branch offices. This definition shall not include real
estate directional signs. OFF-PREMISE ADVERTISING shall be an expressly
prohibited use within the town. All previously existing off-premise
advertisements shall be considered nonconforming uses as of the time of the
passage of this chapter.
      PROJECTION SIGN. A sign which is affixed to any building wall or
structure and extends beyond the building wall, structure, building line or
property line more than 12 inches. It shall not exceed 15% of the wall to which
it is affixed and in no case shall the total sign area exceed 150 feet, unless
the setback for the sign is greater than 50 feet, allowing one square foot of
sign for each square foot of setback up to 450 feet.
      ROOF SIGNS. A sign which is erected, constructed or maintained above the
point of highest elevation of the roof of any building. The signs are not
permitted in any zoning district.
      SHINGLE SIGN. A projection or wall sign not over six square feet in area,
constructed of metal or other non-combustible material attached securely to a
building and not projecting more than 24 inches over public property.
      SPECTACULAR SIGN. Any sign on which the advertising copy is usually
animated, constructed of metal, wired for lights or luminous tubing or both,
with copy action controlled by flashing circuit breakers or matographs and
attached on an open face steel structure built especially for the purpose.
SPECTACULAR SIGNS may be built upon the ground, attached to a wall, above a
roof or projecting from a wall; provided that, the SPECTACULAR SIGN meets all
the requirements governing ground, roof, wall, projection or marquee signs,
depending upon where the sign is built.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign on the wall of a building (including signs attached
flat against the wall), painted on the wall or any projection sign which does
not qualify hereunder. WALL SIGNS must conform to the requirements hereof and
other provisions of this section.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.091 TYPES OF ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   External or indirect illumination. A light source which is placed
outside of or away from the sign in a manner to illuminate the sign.
   (B)   Internal or direct illumination. A light source which is enclosed
within the sign and viewed through a translucent panel.
   (C)   Luminous tubing. Light source formed by glass tubes filled with gas.
   (D)   Light bulb. Light source consisting of incandescent light bulbs.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.092 CONFORMANCE WITH SOUTHERN STANDARD BUILDING CODE.
   All signs and outdoor displays shall conform to the requirements of the most
recent edition of the Southern Standard Building Code regarding signs.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.093 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No sign shall hereafter be erected, attached to, suspended from or supported
on a building or structures; nor shall any existing sign be enlarged or
relocated until a building permit for same has been issued by the Building
Official unless the sign is a noted exception.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.094 NOTED EXCEPTIONS.
   The following signs are exempt from the sign regulations contained in this
chapter: signs of duly constituted governmental bodies, including traffic
regulatory devices, legal notices and warnings at railroad crossings; name or
address signs or mailboxes; street numbers.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.095 CONSTRUCTION AND UPKEEP.
   Signs must be constructed of durable materials, maintained by the owner and
remain in good condition.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.096 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited in all zones:
   (A)   Commercial signs which imitate an official traffic sign or signal or
which contain the words “stop”, “go slow”, “caution”, “danger”, “warning” or
similar words;
   (B)   Signs with flashing lights imitating emergency vehicles, warning or
cautioning lights;
   (C)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring or
manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic
control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal or
which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road intersection;
   (D)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business, product or
service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which the sign is
located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to maintain the signs
as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Signs which contain or consist of pennants, ribbons, streamers or
spinners. These devices when not part of any signs are similarly prohibited;
   (F)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees, fences,
rocks or other signs;
   (G)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of wind
pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment;
   (H)   Signs which are painted directly on the wall or any other structural
part of a building;
   (I)   Signs or sign assembly that obstruct ingress and/or egress to any
window, door, fire escape, stairway, ladder or opening intended to provide
light, air, ingress or egress for any room or building;
   (J)   Signs that violate the corner visibility restrictions of this chapter;
and
   (K)   Off-premise advertising signs.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.097 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   The following signs are permitted as temporary signs for a period not to
exceed 60 days and must be removed within one week after their reason for being
has ceased to exist:
   (A)   Notices of public events, such as:
      (1)   Auctions;
      (2)   Carnivals;
      (3)   Charity benefits;
      (4)   Election campaigns;
      (5)   Fairs;
      (6)   Fund drives;
      (7)   Horse shows;
      (8)   Livestock exhibits;
      (9)   Races;
      (10)   Revivals; and
      (11)   Rodeos.
   (B)   Special events occurring occasionally;
   (C)   Contractor’s sign;
   (D)   Real estate signs; and
   (E)   Subdivision identification sign.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.098 MEASUREMENT OF DISPLAY SIGN AREA.
   The area of a sign including the entire area within a regular geometric
shape or combination of regular geometric shapes enclosing all of the elements
of informational or representational matter displayed, including blank masking
or any surface shape intended to convey ideas, information or meaning. Frames
or structural members not bearing informational or representation matter shall
not be included in computation of display surface area. Only one side of a
double-faced sign shall be included in calculating the display surface area.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.099 MEASUREMENT OF HEIGHT OF SIGN.
   The height of any sign shall be measured from ground level, except in the
case of roof signs where measurement shall be from the roof on which the sign
is erected.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.100 SIDE YARD FOR GROUND SIGNS.
   All ground signs shall maintain a minimum side yard of 12 feet from any
interior side lot line. Any ground sign located on a corner shall meet the
front yard requirement for signs on both street frontages.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.101 PROJECTION SIGNS AND MARQUEE SIGNS OVER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Projection and marquee signs may extend on the public right-of-way only
where there is no required front yard and may extend no closer than one and
one-half feet to the curb of the vehicular traveled portion of the street.
Projection and marquee signs shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet above
the sidewalk.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.102 SIGNS PERMITTED IN CONSERVATION-PRESERVATION DISTRICTS.
   The following type of signs are permitted in CP Districts:
   (A)   Signs for which permits are not required, as specified in §
151.094;
   (B)   Directional or historical signs approved by the Planning Commission
and the Town Council; and
   (C)   Home occupation signs in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.103 SIGNS PERMITTED IN FOREST-AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   The following types of signs are permitted in FA Districts:
   (A)   Signs for which permits are not required, as specified in §
151.094;
   (B)   One non-illuminated home occupation identification sign in area
mounted flat against the wall of a building in which there is conducted a
permitted home occupation;
   (C)   For uses other or non-illuminated than dwellings, a single illuminated
business identification sign; and
   (D)   Temporary subdivision signs and private directional signs, under the
provisions set forth in §
151.097.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.104 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   The following types of signs are permitted in R-8, GR, PMD and RD Districts:
   (A)   Signs for which permits are not required, as specified in §
151.094;
   (B)   One non-illuminated home occupation identification sign mounted flat
against the wall of a building in which there is conducted a permitted home
occupation;
   (C)   For multiple-family dwellings, hotels, group dwellings and for
buildings other than dwellings when permitted in Residential Districts, a
single ground sign in accordance herewith; and
   (D)   Signs on work under construction, temporary subdivision signs and
private directional signs, under the provisions set forth in §
151.097.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.105 SIGNS PERMITTED IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following types of signs are permitted in GC, CC, LI and BI Districts:
   (A)   All signs permitted in residential districts are permitted in
commercial and industrial districts;
   (B)   The following signs shall be permitted in commercial and residential
districts subject to the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   Business identification signs;
      (2)   Marquee signs; and
      (3)   Wall signs.
   (C)   All signs shall be placed so as not to infringe on the front yard
setback required for the district in which the particular signs are located,
unless they are roof signs or wall signs attached to a building which, at the
time of passage of this chapter, infringes into the required front yard.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996; Ord. 05-03, passed - -2005)
§ 151.106 SIGNS PERMITTED IN MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS.
   The following types of signs are permitted in MH Districts:
   (A)   One non-illuminated home occupation identification sign not exceeding
two square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of a building in which
there is conducted a permitted home occupation; and
   (B)   One business identification sign per mobile home park.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.107 SIGNS PERMITTED IN SCENIC HIGHWAY AND HISTORIC LANDMARK DISTRICTS.
   The types of signs allowed in SHPD and HLD Districts is controlled by the
underlying requirements of the district.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.120 STREET ACCESS.
   Except as herein provided, no building shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, moved or relocated on a lot not having direct vehicular and
pedestrian access on a publicly dedicated, publicly accepted or publicly
maintained street with a right-of-way of not less than 50 feet.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.121 CLASSIFICATION OF STREETS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all public streets in the town are hereby
classified as being either major or minor streets. Each major street in the
town is designated on the Zoning Map. All other streets shall be considered as
minor streets.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.122 CORNER LOTS.
   On lots having frontage on more than one street at an intersection, the
minimum front yard requirement may be reduced to one-half the regulated
distance on the portion of the lot fronting on the street or streets of less
importance. If the streets are designated on the Zoning Map as being of equal
importance, then the property owner can choose the street along which he or she
wishes to reduce his or her front yard requirement. However, in no case, shall
the setback be reduced to less than 15 feet. The minimum front yard for the
portion of the lot fronting on the street of greater importance shall be
provided in accordance with the provisions established by this chapter for the
district in which the lot is located.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.123 LOCATION OF BUILDINGS ON LOTS AND RESIDENTIAL LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Every building or use hereafter erected or established shall be
located on a lot; and every one- and two-family residential structure, except
as herein provided, shall be located on an individual lot. In all cases, the
principal buildings on a lot shall be located within the area formed by the
building lines as outer boundaries and, in no case, shall the buildings
infringe beyond the building lines into the respective front, side, rear yards
or other setbacks required for the district in which the lot is located.
   (B)   The first floor elevation of all new or moved structures subsequent to
the passage of this chapter shall be in compliance with the minimum height
requirements of established Federal Flood Insurance Program flood boundaries.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.124 DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   On lots having frontage on two streets, but not located on a corner, the
minimum front yard shall be provided on each street in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. On lots having frontage on more than two streets,
the minimum front yard shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter on at least two of the street frontages. The minimum front yard on
the other frontage or frontages may be reduced along the other streets in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.122.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.125 SPECIAL FRONT YARD REQUIREMENTS IN DEVELOPED AREAS.
   The setback requirements of this chapter shall not apply to any lot where
the average setback on already built upon lots located wholly or in part within
100 feet on each side of the lot and within the same block and zoning district
and fronting on the same street as the lot, is less than the minimum required
setback. In these cases, the setback on a lot may be less than the required
setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the
developed lots. However, in no case shall setbacks be less than 15 feet.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.126 MEASUREMENTS OF FRONT, SIDE, REAR YARDS; DETERMINATION OF BUILDING
AREA.
   The required front, side and rear yards for individual lots, as set forth
for the particular district within which a given lot is located, shall be
measured inward toward the center of the lot from all points along the
respective front, side and rear property lines of the lot. Once the yard areas
of a given lot have been established, the remaining area of the lot which is
not included in any required front, side or rear lot shall be known as the
“buildable area”.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.127 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming buildings or land uses are declared by this chapter to
be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. However to avoid
undue hardship, the lawful use of any building or land uses at the time of the
enactment of this chapter may be continued even though the use does not conform
with the provisions of this chapter, except that the nonconforming building or
land use or portions thereof, shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming use;
      (2)   Re-used or re-occupied after discontinuance of use or occupancy for
a period of 30 days or more;
      (3)   Re-established, reoccupied or replaced with the same or similar
building, or land use after physical removal or relocation from its specific
site location at the time of passage of this chapter for a period of 30 days or
more;
      (4)   Repaired, rebuilt or altered after damage exceeding 60% of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction. Reconstruction or repair, when
legal, must begin within six months after damage is incurred; and
      (5)   Enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
the official.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.128 NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR USE DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, certain
nonconforming buildings or land uses, after this chapter is enacted into law,
shall be discontinued, and/or shall be torn down, altered or otherwise made to
conform with this chapter within the periods of time set forth below. Upon
application to the Board of Appeals, the Board, either according to general
rule or upon findings in the specific case, may permit not more than one
extension for not more than the time indicated below.
   (B)   Notice shall be sent by the Zoning Administrator to all nonconforming
users stating wherein they do not conform to this chapter and stating the date
by which they must either comply or cease to exist. The date that a
nonconforming use must either comply or cease to exist shall be measured from
the date of enactment of this chapter and shall be observed regardless of
whether notice of nonconformity is sent by the Zoning Administrator or received
by the affected owner.
 
                                 Nonconformities to Be Extension Permitted
                                 Discontinued Within
Nonconforming fences and hedges  180 days              30 days
impeding vision at intersections
Wrecking junk scrap, or salvage
yards and other open uses of
land, signs, outdoor advertising
and sales lots, outdoor storage  2 years               6 months
yards for lumber building
materials, contractors equipment
and mobile homes on individual
lots
 
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.129 HOME OCCUPATION.
   A home occupation shall be permitted in any Residential or MH District;
provided that, the occupation:
   (A)   Is conducted by no other persons than members of the family residing
on the premises;
   (B)   Is conducted within the principal building;
   (C)   Utilizes not more than 25% of the total floor area of the principal
building;
   (D)   Produces no alteration or change in the character or exterior
appearance of the principal building from that of a dwelling;
   (E)   Involves no sale or offering for sale of any article not produced or
assembled by members of the family, or any service not entirely performed by
members of the family residing on the premises;
   (F)   Creates no disturbing or offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odor, heat, glare, traffic hazard, unhealthy or unsightly condition; and
   (G)   Is not visibly evident from outside the dwelling, except for a sign of
four square feet or smaller in size and mounted against a wall of the principal
building.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.130 ACCESSORY USES.
   In addition to the principal uses, each of the following uses is considered
to be a customary accessory use, and as such, may be situated on the same lot
with the principal use or uses to which it serves as an accessory.
   (A)   Uses customarily accessory to farms and other agricultural uses.
      (1)   Private airfields or airstrips, together with subordinate uses;
      (2)   Private garages;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Barns, stables and other facilities for livestock;
      (5)   Sheds or tool rooms for the storage of equipment used in grounds or
building maintenance;
      (6)   Storage facilities for produce;
      (7)   Greenhouses;
      (8)   Condenseries;
      (9)   Feed lots;
      (10)   Facilities for hatching or butchering of fowl;
      (11)   Private swimming pool and bath house or cabana;
      (12)   Private dock or boat house; and
      (13)   Swimming beach.
   (B)   Uses customarily accessory to dwellings.
      (1)   Private garage not to exceed the following storage capacities:
         (a)   One- or two-family dwelling: four automobiles;
         (b)   Multi-family dwelling: two automobiles per dwelling unit; and
         (c)   Group dwelling: one and one-half automobiles per sleeping room.
      (2)   Open storage space or parking area for motor vehicles; provided
that, the space does not exceed the maximum respective storage capacities
listed under division (A) above; and, provided that, the space shall not be
used for more than one commercial vehicle licensed as one ton or less in
capacity per family residing on the premises;
      (3)   Shed or tool room for the storage of equipment used in grounds or
building maintenance;
      (4)   Private kennel for no more than three dogs or three cats, four
months of age or older;
      (5)   Private swimming pool and bath house or cabana;
      (6)   Private dock or boat house;
      (7)   Swimming beach; and
      (8)   Noncommercial flower, ornamental shrub or vegetable garden,
greenhouse or slat house not over eight feet in height.
   (C)   Uses customarily accessory to church buildings.
      (1)   Religious education buildings;
      (2)   Kindergartens;
      (3)   Parsonage, pastorium or parish house, together with any use
accessory to a dwelling as listed under division (A) above;
      (4)   Off-street parking area for the use without charge of members and
visitors to the church; and
      (5)   Cemeteries.
   (D)   Uses customarily accessory to retail businesses, office uses and
commercial recreation facilities.
      (1)   Off-street parking or storage area for customers, clients or
employees;
      (2)   Completely enclosed building for the storage of supplies, stock or
merchandise;
      (3)   Light manufacturing and/or repair facility incidental to the
principal use; provided that, dust, odor, smoke, noise, vibration, heat or
glare produced as a result of the manufacturing or repair operation is not
perceptible from any boundary line of the lot on which the principal and
accessory uses are located and, provided, the operation is not otherwise
specifically prohibited in the district in which the principal use is located;
      (4)   Private airfields or airstrips, together with subordinate uses;
      (5)   Sheds or tool rooms for the storage of equipment used in operations
or maintenance;
      (6)   Private swimming pools, bath houses or cabanas;
      (7)   Swimming beach; and
      (8)   Bait house.
   (E)   Uses customarily accessory to public uses, buildings or activities.
There shall be no limitations regarding accessory uses to any use, building or
activity operated within the public domain; except that, the uses, buildings or
activities must be directly related and subordinate to the principal public
use.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.131 SETBACK AND OTHER YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESSORY USES.
   All accessory uses operated in structures above ground level shall observe
all setbacks, yards and other requirements set forth for the district within
which they are located, except those water-oriented facilities such as beaches,
docks and the like, which shall be permitted to infringe into required setback
areas along shorelines and into rivers, lakes, streams and other waterways.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.132 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Areas suitable for parking or storing automobiles in off-street locations
shall hereafter be required in all districts at the time of the initial
construction of any principal building producing an increase in dwelling units,
guest rooms, floor area, seating or bed capacity or when a conversion in use
occurs. Off-street parking spaces shall have direct access to a street or alley
and shall be provided and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
 Required Parking
                                        Required Parking
RESIDENTIAL ACTIVITIES
Any residential use, including a mobile 1 space for each dwelling unit and/or
home on individual lots, consisting of  mobile home
one or more dwelling units
Group dwellings                         1 space for each 2 bedrooms
Hotels                                  1 space for each 3 guest rooms, plus 1
                                        space for each 5 employees
Mobile home parks                       1 space for each mobile home space
Tourist homes, boarding houses and      1 space for each accommodation, plus 1
motels                                  space for each 3 employees
PUBLIC AND SEMI -PUBLIC ACTIVITIES
                                        1 space for each 2 beds, plus 1 space
                                        for each staff or visiting doctor, plus
Hospitals, clinics and nursing homes    1 space for each 4 employees including
                                        nurses at maximum employment on a
                                        single shift
Public or private golf courses, public  No less than 100 total spaces
beach areas and other open public areas
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
                                        1 space, plus an additional space for
Banks                                   each 300 square feet and additional
                                        fractions thereof of gross floor space
Car sales, house and truck trailer      4 spaces for each sales person, plus 1
sales, outdoor equipment and machinery  for each 2 other employees
sales, commercial nurseries
Churches, spiritual institutions and    1 space for each 2 staff members or
places of indoor or outdoor public      employees, plus 1 space for each 4
assembly, with fixed seats, including   seats in the principal assembly room
private clubs
Doctors and dentists offices            5 spaces per doctor or dentist
                                        1 space for each 4 seats in chapel or
Funeral homes                           parlor, plus sufficient space to park
                                        or store all company vehicles
Kindergartens, elementary and junior    1 space for each classroom and
high schools                            administrative office
Other professional and business         2 spaces, plus an additional space for
offices, including animal hospitals     each 300 square feet and additional
                                        fractions thereof of gross floor space
Places indoor without including of      1 space for each 200 square feet and
assembly or recreation fixed seats,     additional fractions thereof of gross
private clubs                           area directed to patron use
                                        1 space for each 200 square feet and
Public buildings                        additional fractions thereof of gross
                                        floor space
Restaurants, theaters, night clubs and  1 space 4 accommodations, plus 1 space
other such public of places assembly    for each 2 employees on shift of
                                        greatest employment
Retail businesses, not otherwise        1 space, plus an additional space for
specifically mentioned                  each 200 square feet, and additional
                                        fractions thereof, of retail space
                                        1 space for each classroom and
                                        administrative office, plus 1 space for
Senior high schools                     each 20 seats or 1 space for each 400
                                        square feet and additional fractions
                                        thereof of area, used for public
                                        assembly whichever is greater
                                        1 space, plus an additional space for
Service and repair establishments, not  each 250 square feet, and additional
otherwise specifically mentioned        fractions thereof, of floor area not
                                        used for storage
                                        2 spaces for each gasoline pump, plus 3
Service stations                        spaces for each grease rack or wash
                                        rack
WHOLESALE AND INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES
                                        1 space for each 2 employees at maximum
                                        employment on a single shift, plus 1
Air or train terminals                  space for each company vehicle
                                        operating from the premises, plus at
                                        least 25 spaces for the general public
Wholesaling and industrial uses         1 space for each 2 employees at maximum
including lumber, brick, coal, junk and employment on a single shift, plus 1
supply yards                            space for each company vehicle
                                        operating from premises
 
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.133 PARKING SPACE AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Including aisles, entrances and exits, each required off-street parking
area, lot or other facility shall contain a minimum of 300 square feet of space
for each automobile to be accommodated.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.134 LOCATION ON OTHER PROPERTY.
   (A)   If the required automobile parking space cannot reasonably be provided
on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the spaces may be
provided on other off-street property; provided, the property lines are within
400 feet of the main entrance to the principal use.
   (B)   The automobile parking space shall be associated with the principal
use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.135 COMMON OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   A single use encompassing more than one of the activities, as specified in §
151.132, or two or more principal uses whether located on the same or separate
lots, may utilize a common area in order to comply with off-street
requirements; provided that, the total number of individual spaces available in
the common area is not less than the sum of the spaces required for the
individual uses as separately computed in accordance with the provisions of §
151.132; and, provided that, the owner of the lot relinquished his or her
development rights over the property until the time as parking space is
provided elsewhere.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.136 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF WAY FOR MANEUVERING.
   When determining parking area requirements for individual uses, portions of
the public rights-of-way on minor streets may be considered as permissible for
maneuvering incidental to parking. On major streets, parking facilities shall
provide space outside the public rights-of-way for maneuvering incidental to
parking.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.137 EXTENSION OF PARKING SPACE INTO A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Required parking space may extend up to 120 feet into a residential
district; provided that:
   (A)   The parking space adjoins a commercial or industrial district;
   (B)   It has its only access to, or fronts upon, the same street as the
property in the commercial or industrial district for which it provides the
required parking space; and
   (C)   It is separate from abutting properties in the residential district by
a continuous planted buffer or a solid brick, concrete block or stone wall, or
a uniformly painted board fence. The buffer strip shall not be less than six
feet in height and if planted, shall be composed of healthy plants which
possess growth characteristics of a nature as to produce a dense, compact
planting screen.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.138 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Every lot on which a business, trade, industry, residential use or
mobile home park containing ten or more units hereafter established, shall
provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off
public rights-of-way. The space shall have access to an alley or, if there is
no alley, to a street. For the purpose of this section, an off-street loading
space shall have minimum dimensions of 12 feet by 40 feet and be clear and free
of obstructions at all times.
   (B)   Required space shall be considered as follows:
      (1)   Retail business: one space for each 5,000 feet of gross floor
space;
      (2)   Transportation, wholesale, industrial, governmental and
institutional uses, including all public assembly places, hospitals and
educational institutions, public or private outdoor and indoor recreational
areas or activities: one space for the first 25,000 square feet of total floor
area. For anything in excess of 25,000 square feet, the uses shall provide
loading spaces according to the following schedule:
 
Square Feet                                             Total No. of Spaces
25,001-99,999                                           2
100,000-159,999                                         3
160,000-239,999                                         4
240,000-349,999 for each additional 100,000 or fraction 1 additional
thereof
 
      (3)   Any residential use or mobile home park consisting of ten or more
dwelling units: one space.
   (C)   All uses, whether specified in this chapter or not, shall provide off-
street loading areas sufficient for their requirements. The space shall be
adequate so that no vehicle being loaded or unloaded in connection with normal
operations shall stand in or project into a public street, walk, alley or way.
   (D)   Required off-street loading and unloading areas shall in all cases be
located on the same lot or parcel of land as the structure they are intended to
serve. In no case shall the required off-street loading space be considered as
part of the area provided to satisfy off-street parking requirements as listed
herein.
   (E)   (1)   When situated adjacent to a residential district or a
residential property, an institutional, commercial or industrial use, an off-
street loading and unloading area shall be separated from the adjoining
residential district or property line by a continuous planted buffer strip or a
solid brick, concrete block or stone wall or a uniformly painted board fence.
      (2)   The buffer strip shall not be less than six feet in height and if
planted, shall be composed of healthy plants which possess growth
characteristics of a nature as to produce a dense, compact planting screen.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.139 VISIBILITY AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   In all districts established by this chapter, no fence, wall, terrace, sign,
shrubbery, planting or other structure or object capable of obstructing driver
vision between the heights of three and ten feet above the finished street
level shall be permitted on a corner lot within 25 feet of the point formed by
the intersection of the street right-of-way lines (or the lines extended in
case of a rounded corner) which bound the lot.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.140 VISIBILITY AT PRIVATE DRIVES AND ENTRANCES INTERSECTING WITH STREETS.
   At the intersection of any private drive or entrance or exit with a public
street, no fence, wall, hedge or other planting or sign forming a material
impediment to visibility over a height of two and one-half feet shall be
erected, planted, placed or maintained.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.141 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy, monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, silos, chimneys, smokestacks,
conveyors, roof signs, flag poles, masts and aerials; provided, evidence from
appropriate authorities is submitted to the effect that the building or
structure will not interfere with any airport approach zones or flight
patterns.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.142 PARKING, STORAGE OR USE OF CAMPERS OR OTHER MAJOR RECREATIONAL
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot
in a residential district, except in a carport or enclosed building or behind
the nearest portion of a building to a street; provided, however, that,
equipment may be parked anywhere on residential premises for a period not to
exceed 24 hours during loading or unloading.
   (B)   The equipment shall observe all setbacks, yard and other requirements
set forth within the residential districts in which they are located.
   (C)   No equipment shall be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping
purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any location not
approved for the uses.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.143 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license
plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially zoned property other
than in completely enclosed buildings.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.144 CURB CUTS AND ACCESS POINTS.
   Ingress-egress openings in concrete, asphalt, rock or other curbing
provisions, commonly referred to as “curb cuts”, as well as other means of
vehicular access to and from private property, shall be regulated in the
several zoning districts established by this chapter in accordance with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Number, size and spacing of curb cuts and other access points. In no
case shall a curb cut or other access point be less than nine feet or more than
50 feet in length. No more than one curb cut per lot shall be permitted, except
in FA, Commercial and Industrial Districts where two shall be permitted on each
street the lot fronts.
   (B)   Location of curb cuts and other access points. At street
intersections, no curb or other access point shall be located closer than:
      (1)   Twenty feet from the intersection point of the two street right-of-
way or property lines involved (or in lines extended in case of a rounded
corner); or
      (2)   Twenty-five feet from the intersection of the two curb lines
involved (or the lines extended in case of a rounded corner), whichever is the
least restrictive.
   (C)   Access points in the vicinity of interchanges. In no case shall any
curb cut, point of access or other means of vehicular ingress and egress from
private property onto a public street be permitted closer than 200 feet to the
intersection point of that street’s right-of-way line and with the right-of-way
line of any portion of an interchange, involving grade separations with that
road and any limited access highways; the interchange to include all portions
of all ramps, accelerating and deceleration lanes, merge lanes and other
facilities specifically designed to facilitate traffic movement onto and off of
the limited access highway.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.145 WATER AND AIR POLLUTION.
   All uses must satisfactorily comply with the requirements of the State
Department of Health and Environmental Control and the County Board of Health,
regarding the protection of waterways from pollution by waste materials and the
protection of the atmosphere from pollution by dust, smoke or other waste
materials.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, APPEAL, COMPLAINTS AND REMEDIES
§ 151.160 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of administering and enforcing this chapter, the position
of “Zoning Administrator” is hereby established for the town; the “Zoning
Administrator” to be appointed by and responsible to the Town Council. Further,
the person designated as “Zoning Administrator” is hereby assigned the duty and
authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing, the person
responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuances of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations or
structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.161 BUILDING AND SIGN ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No building, sign or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or
structurally altered without a permit therefor, issued by the Zoning
Administrator. No building or sign zoning permit shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. No
building permit issued under the provisions of this chapter for land use or
construction in the county shall be considered valid unless signed by the
Zoning Administrator, as duly designated in §
151.160.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.162 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   All applications for building and zoning permits shall be accompanied
by plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape
of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of
buildings already existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the
proposed building or alteration. The application shall include other
information as lawfully may be required by the Zoning Administrator, including
existing or proposed building or alteration; existing or proposed uses of the
building and land; the number of families, housekeeping units or rental units
the building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and
other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with; and provide
for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   All plats of land within designated special flood hazard zones shall
have the elevation of the land based upon mean sea level noted thereon or in
the case of older approved plats, a statement from a surveyor or engineer
correctly identifying the property and attesting to the elevation. The
statement shall bear the surveyor’s or engineer’s seal.
   (C)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the Zoning
Administrator after he or she shall have marked the copy either as approved or
disapproved and attested to same by his or her signature on the copy. The
original copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.163 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY FOR NEW, ALTERED OR NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy
of any building or premises, or both, or parts thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use
or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefor
by the Zoning Administrator stating that the proposed use of the building or
land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   No nonconforming structure or use shall be maintained, renewed,
changed or extended until a certificate of occupancy shall state specifically
wherein the nonconforming use differs from the provisions of this chapter;
provided that, upon enactment or amendment of this chapter, owners or occupants
of nonconforming uses or structures shall have three months to apply for
certificates of occupancy. Failure to make the application within three months
shall be presumptive evidence that the property was not in conformance at the
time of enactment or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   No permit for erection, alteration, moving or repair of any building
shall be issued until an application has been made for a certificate of
occupancy and the certificate shall be issued in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter upon completion of the work.
   (D)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for a period not exceeding six months during alterations or
partial occupancy of a building pending its completion; provided that, the
temporary certificate may include conditions and safeguards as will protect the
safety of the occupants and the public.
   (E)   No certificate of occupancy issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be considered valid unless signed by the Zoning Administrator, as
duly designated herein.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all certificates
of occupancy and a copy shall be furnished upon request to any person.
   (G)   Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation of
this chapter and punishable under §
151.999.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.164 CONDITIONAL AND TEMPORARY USE.
   Conditional uses, as set forth in §§
151.050 through
151.062, and temporary uses, as set forth below, are declared to possess
characteristics which require certain controls in order to ensure compatibility
with other uses in the district within which they are proposed for location.
   (A)   General requirements. Conditional uses shall be permitted subject to a
determination by the Zoning Administrator that they conform to all regulations
set forth herein and elsewhere in this chapter, with particular reference to
those requirements established for those districts in which they are proposed
for location.
   (B)   Conditional use administration and duration. Applications for
permission to build, erect or locate a conditional use shall be submitted and
processed in accordance with the regulations set forth in this subchapter,
prior to the issuance of any permits.
   (C)   Temporary uses. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a
temporary certificate of zoning compliance for temporary uses, as follows:
      (1)   Real estate sales office, in any district except CP, for a period
not to exceed one year; provided, no cooking or sleeping accommodations are
maintained in the structure;
      (2)   Contractor’s office and equipment sheds, in any district, except
CP, for a period of one year; provided that, the office be placed on the
property to which it is appurtenant; and
      (3)   All temporary certificates of zoning compliance may be renewed;
provided that, it is determined that the use is clearly of a temporary nature,
will cause no traffic congestion and would not create a nuisance to surrounding
areas.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.165 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within six months
from the date of issuance thereof, the permit shall expire, it shall be
canceled by the Zoning Administrator and written notice thereof shall be given
the persons affected.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.166 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. The complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. He or she shall
record properly the complaint, immediately investigate and take whatever action
is necessary to assure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.167 REMEDIES.
   In any case any building or structure is proposed to be or is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, maintained or used; or any land is
proposed to be or is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator, the Town Council, the County Attorney or any other person
aggrieved may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute
injunction, mandamus or any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent,
enjoin, abate or remove the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance or use.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.168 APPEAL FROM THE DECISION OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   It is the intention of this chapter that all questions arising in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter shall be presented first to the Zoning
Administrator and that the questions shall be presented to the Zoning Board of
Appeals only on appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator, as
provided for in §§
151.180 through
151.185.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 151.180 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established. The Board shall consist of
five members, who shall be citizens of the town and shall be appointed by the
Town Council for overlapping terms of three years. Initial appointment shall be
as follows: one member for a term of three years, two members for a term of two
years and two members for a term of one year. Any vacancy in the membership
shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner at the initial
appointment. Members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for any
expenses incurred while representing the Board.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.181 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson from
its members who shall serve for one year or until re-elected or until their
successors are elected. The Board shall appoint a Secretary, who may be a town
officer, an employee of the county, a member of the Planning Commission or a
member of the Board of Appeals. The Board shall adopt rules and by-laws in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and S.C. Code § 5-231976, as
amended. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at other times as the Board may determine. All meetings of the Board shall be
open to the public.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.182 DECISIONS OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The concurring vote of three members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter or to affect any variation of
this chapter. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
the fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and
shall be a public record. On all appeals, applications and matters brought
before the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Board shall inform in writing all the
parties involved of its decisions and the reasons thereof.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.183 APPEALS, HEARING AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the town. The appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the Clerk/Treasurer notice of the appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board, after
the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life and property. In that case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
or by a court of record on application, on notice to the officer from whom the
appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
   (C)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or
other matter referred to it, and give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable
time. Notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least 15 days in advance of
the scheduled hearing date. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.184 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator in the enforcement of this act;
      (2)   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases a variance from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that
the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured
and substantial justice done. The variances may be granted in the individual
cases of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Zoning Board of Appeals:
         (a)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or
topography;
         (b)   The application of this chapter on this particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship;
         (c)   The conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property
involved; and
         (d)   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the
public good or impair the purpose and intent of this chapter or the
Comprehensive Plan; provided, however, that, no variance may be granted for a
use of land or building structure that is prohibited in a given district.
      (3)   To decide on other matters where a decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals may be specifically required by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In exercising the above powers, the Zoning Board of Appeals may, in
conformity with the provisions of this act, reverse or affirm, wholly or in
part, or may modify the order, requirements, decision or determination and, to
that end, shall have all the powers of the Zoning Administrator from whom the
appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. The Board, in
the execution of the duties for which appointed, may subpoena witnesses, and,
in case of contempt, may certify the fact to the Circuit Court having
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.185 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Any person who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the Zoning
Board of Appeals may appeal from any decision of the Board to the Circuit Court
in and for the county by filing with the Clerk of Court, a petition in writing
setting forth plainly, fully and distinctly wherein the decision is contrary to
law. The appeal shall be filed within 30 days after the decision of the Board
is rendered.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, shall be prosecuted according to procedures established for
misdemeanors and, upon conviction, shall be punished, according to law, for
each offense. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent any violation.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
APPENDIX A: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION RULES OF PROCEDURE
   (I)   Officers and duties. The Commission at its first regular meeting
following the appointment of the new class of members by Town Council each
year, shall elect a new Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
      (A)   Chairperson. A Chairperson shall be elected by the voting members
of the Planning and Zoning Commission. No member shall be eligible to serve as
Chairperson until he or she has first served on the Commission for at least one
year. His or her term shall be for one year. The Chairperson shall preside at
all meetings of the Commission and decide all points of order and procedure,
subject to these rules, unless directed otherwise by a majority of the
Commission in session at the time. The Chairperson shall appoint any committees
found necessary to investigate any matters before the Commission.
      (B)   Vice Chairperson. A Vice Chairperson shall be elected by the
Planning and Zoning Commission from among its members in the same manner and
for the same term as the Chairperson. He or she shall serve as acting
Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson and, at the times, he or she
shall have the same powers and duties as the Chairperson. The Vice Chairperson
shall succeed the Chairperson if he or she vacates his or her office before his
or her term is completed, the Vice Chairperson to serve the unexpired term of
the vacated office. A new Vice Chairperson shall be elected at the next regular
meeting.
   (II)   Meetings.
      (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be held on the first and third Tuesday of each month at Town
Hall; provided that, if the Chairperson so directs, meetings may be held at any
other place in the town. The regular meetings held on the first Tuesday of each
month shall be a planning meeting, shall be held at 6:00 p.m. and shall be for
general planning purposes only and not for the hearing of official requests
from the public for rezonings, subdivision review and annexation. These public
requests shall be presented at the regular meetings on the third Tuesday of
each month which shall be public hearing meetings and shall be held at 2:00
p.m.
      (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Planning and Zoning
Commission may be called at any time by the Chairperson. At least 24 hours’
notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be given by the
Chairperson to each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission; provided
that, this requirement may be waived by action of a majority of all members.
      (C)   Workshops. The first hour from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. preceding the
public hearing regular meetings held on the third Tuesday of each month shall
be a workshop. Additional workshops can be called by the Chairperson in the
same manner special meetings are called.
      (D)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there is no business for the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the Chairperson may dispense with a regular
meeting by giving notice to all members not less than 24 hours prior to the
time set for the meeting.
      (E)   Notification of absence. Each member of the Planning and Zoning
Commission who has knowledge of the fact that he or she will not be able to
attend scheduled regular meetings, special meetings or workshop meetings of the
Commission shall notify the Planning Department at Town Hall at the earliest
possible opportunity prior to the meeting in the event that the projected
absence(s) will produce a lack of quorum.
      (F)   Criteria for excused absences.
         (1)   For an absence to be given consideration by the Planning and
Zoning Commission as an excused absence, the Commissioner is required to notify
the Planning Department at Town Hall prior to a regular or special meeting. If
an absence fails to meet this qualification, it is automatically registered as
an unexcused absence. If an absence qualifies for consideration, it must then
satisfy at least one of the following conditions to be granted “excused” by the
majority vote of the members present at roll call:
            (a)   Personal business conflict;
            (b)   Personal illness;
            (c)   Death in immediate family;
            (d)   Jury duty;
            (e)   Other town, county or state business related conflict; or
            (f)   Any other excuse deemed excusable at the discretion of the
Commission.
         (2)   Attendance at workshops is encouraged, but not required and no
roll call is taken.
      (G)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of five members of the Commission.
No quorum is required for workshops.
      (H)   Conduct of meetings.
         (1)   All meetings shall be open to the public regular meetings held
on the third Tuesday of each month shall be as follows:
            (a)   Roll call;
            (b)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
            (c)   Unfinished business;
            (d)   New business; and
            (e)   Citizens comments.
         (2)   A copy of the agenda for the meetings held on the third Tuesday
of each month shall be published once in a local newspaper prior to the
meeting.
      (I)   Deadline for agenda. The deadline for filing for placement of
agenda in local media and Town Hall shall not be less than 24 hours of
established meeting time and date.
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
APPENDIX B: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
To_view_a_PDF_file_of_this_map,_click_here.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d926b8821e287bc0195fa24db7ddfd04a6848330/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1137.jpg]
 
(Ord. 97-04, passed 12-19-1996)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS
   
II.   REZONINGS
   
III.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
   
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
06-03    3-23-2006   Adopting the annexation of the Lake Russell Project
 
TABLE II: REZONINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
97-02    2-20-1997   Rezoning several properties from general residential to R-
                     8 restricted
99-05    11-18-1999  Rezoning the Eastgate Apartments to R-3, Multi-Family
                     Residential Housing District
06-05    4-20-2006   Rezoning several properties from residential to commercial
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the town to join with other political
00-01    6-22-2000   subdivisions in a joint municipal water system, known as
                     the South Carolina Rural Water Finance Authority
04-04    7-29-2004   Granting a telecommunications services franchise to West
                     Carolina Communications, LLC
04-05    7-29-2004   Granting a digital entertainment services franchise to
                     West Carolina Rural Telephone Cooperative, Inc.
                     Granting the right to install, maintain, and operate
2020-05  10-26-2020  electric lines, gas mains, and appurtenant facilities, and
                     communication lines, to Dominion Energy South Carolina,
                     Inc.
                     Authorizing the town to enter into an intergovernmental
- -      12-20-2023  agreement with South Carolina Local Revenue Service and
                     participate in said programs.
                    
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
97-05    2-28-1997   Authorizing the sale of the Medical Center properties
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Cites Code Section
S.C. Code Cites             Code Section
5-7-30                      10.99
5-11-10 through 5-11-40     30.01
5-11-20                     10.02
5-23-10                     151.001,
                            151.021
5-23-240                    151.062
6-1-400 et seq.             110.20
6-1-410                     110.11,
                            110.16
6-7-10                      34.02
6-7-20                      34.02
6-7-210—6-7-1280          34.02
6-29-1520                   150.06
6-29-1540                   150.06
6-29-1550                   150.06
12-21-2720(A)(1) and (A)(2) Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2720(A)(3)            Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2720(B)               Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2728                  Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2746                  Ch. 110, App. A
12-23-210                   Ch. 110, App. A
14-25-5                     35.01
14-25-25                    35.01
14-25-35                    35.01
14-25-45                    35.01
14-25-55                    35.03
14-25-65                    10.99;
                            35.01
14-25-75                    35.01
16                          35.02
16-13-385                   50.13
19-3-10                     10.12
23-35-10 to 23-35-170       91.01
30-4-10 et seq.             31.21
                            110.02,
Title 38, Ch. 7             110.11,
                            110.16,
                            Ch. 110, App. A
38-7-20                     110.02
                            110.02,
Title 38, Ch. 45            110.11,
                            110.16,
                            Ch. 110, App. A
40-39-10 to 40-39-130       111.01
44-1-160                    10.02
56-5                        70.01;
                            70.02
56-5-1960                   91.18
56-5-2530                   91.18
56-7-80                     10.99
57-7-240                    71.02
                            110.02,
Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20    110.11,
                            110.16
58-9-2200                   Ch. 110, App. A
61-6                        130.01
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2013 Code
Prior Code 2013 Code
1.08.010   10.99
1.08.020   10.99
1.08.030   10.99
1.08.040   10.99
2.04.010   30.01
2.08.010   31.01
2.08.020   31.02
2.08.030   31.03
2.08.040   31.04
2.1115     31.05
2.12.010   31.45
2.12.020   31.46
2.12.030   31.47
2.12.040   31.48
2.12.050   31.49
2.12.060   31.50
2.12.070   31.51
2.12.080   31.52
2.12.090   31.53
2.12.100   31.54
2.16.010   31.20
2.16.020   31.21
2.16.030   31.22
2.16.040   31.23
2.16.050   31.24
2.16.060   31.25
2.16.070   31.26
2.16.080   31.27
2.16.090   31.28
2.16.100   31.29
2.16.110   31.30
2.16.120   31.31
2.20.010   32.01
2.20.020   32.02
2.20.030   32.03
2.20.040   32.04
2.20.050   32.05
2.20.060   32.06
2.20.070   32.07
2.24.010   33.01
2.28.010   32.20
2.28.020   32.20
2.32.010   32.21
2.32.020   32.21
2.36.010   34.01
2.40.010   34.02
2.40.020   34.02
2.40.030   34.02
2.44.010   35.01
2.44.020   35.02
2.44.030   35.03
2.44.040   35.04
2.44.050   35.05
2.44.060   35.06
2.44.070   35.07
2.44.080   35.08
2.48.060   31.07
3.04.010   36.01
3.04.020   36.02
3.04.030   36.03
3.04.040   36.04
3.04.050   36.05
3.04.060   36.06
3.04.070   36.07
3.04.080   36.08
3.08.020   36.20
3.08.030   36.99
6.04.010   90.15
6.04.020   90.16
6.04.030   90.17
6.04.040   90.18
6.04.050   90.19
6.08.010   90.01
6.08.020   90.02
6.08.030   90.03
8.04.010   113.01
8.04.020   113.02
8.04.030   113.03
8.04.040   113.04
8.04.050   113.05
8.08.010   91.15
8.08.020   91.16
8.08.030   91.17
8.08.040   91.18
8.08.050   91.19
8.08.060   91.99
8.12.010   91.01;
           91.99
8.16.010   91.02
8.20.010   91.30
8.20.020   91.31
8.20.030   91.32
8.20.040   91.33
8.20.050   91.34
8.20.060   91.99
8.24.010   91.45
8.24.020   91.46
8.24.030   91.47
8.24.040   91.99
8.28.010   94.01
8.28.020   94.02
8.28.030   94.03;
           94.99
8.28.040   94.04
8.28.050   94.05
8.32.010   95.01
8.32.020   95.02
8.32.030   95.03
8.32.040   95.04
8.32.050   95.05
8.32.060   95.06
8.32.070   95.07
8.32.080   95.08
8.32.090   95.09
8.32.100   95.10
8.32.110   95.11
8.32.120   95.12
8.32.130   95.13
8.32.140   95.14
8.32.150   95.99
8.36.010   95.25
8.36.020   95.26
8.36.030   95.27
8.36.040   95.28
8.36.050   95.29
8.36.060   95.99
8.40.010   91.03
8.40.020   91.99
9.04.010   130.01
9.04.020   130.02
9.04.030   130.03
9.04.040   130.04
9.08.010   131.01
9.12.010   111.01
9.12.020   111.02
9.12.030   111.03
9.12.040   111.04
9.12.050   111.05
9.12.060   111.06
9.12.070   111.99
9.12.080   131.02
9.12.100   131.99
9.16.010   132.01
9.16.020   132.02
9.16.040   132.04
9.16.050   132.05
9.16.070   132.06
9.16.080   132.07
10.04.010  70.01
10.04.020  70.02
10.04.030  70.03
10.04.040  70.04;
           70.99
10.04.050  70.05;
           70.99
10.12.010  71.01
10.12.020  71.02
10.12.030  71.03
10.12.040  71.99
10.16.010  112.01
10.16.020  112.02
10.16.030  112.03
10.16.040  112.04
10.16.050  112.05
10.16.060  112.06
10.16.070  112.07
10.16.080  112.08
10.16.090  112.09
10.16.100  112.10
10.16.110  112.11
10.16.120  112.12
10.16.130  112.13
10.16.140  112.14
12.04.010  92.01
12.04.020  92.02
12.04.030  92.03
12.04.040  92.04
12.04.050  92.05
12.04.060  92.06
12.08.010  92.20
12.08.020  92.21
12.08.030  92.22
12.12.010  93.01
12.12.020  93.02
12.12.030  93.03
13.04.010  50.01
13.04.020  50.02
13.04.030  50.03
13.04.040  50.04
13.04.050  50.05
13.04.060  50.06
13.04.070  50.07
13.04.080  50.08
13.04.090  50.09
13.04.100  50.10
13.04.120  50.12
13.04.130  50.13
13.08.010  51.01
13.08.020  51.02
13.08.030  51.03
13.08.040  51.04
13.08.050  51.05
13.08.060  51.06
13.08.070  51.07
13.08.080  51.08
13.08.090  51.09
13.08.100  51.10
13.08.110  51.25
13.08.120  51.26
13.08.130  51.27
13.08.140  51.28
13.08.150  51.29
13.08.160  51.30
13.08.170  51.31
13.08.180  51.32
13.08.190  51.33
13.08.200  51.45
13.08.210  51.46
13.08.220  51.47
13.08.230  51.48
13.08.240  51.49
13.12.010  52.01
13.12.020  52.02
13.12.030  52.03
13.12.040  52.04
13.12.050  52.05
13.12.060  52.06
13.12.070  52.07
13.12.080  52.08
13.12.090  52.09
13.12.100  52.10
13.12.110  52.25
13.12.120  52.26
13.12.130  52.27
13.12.140  52.28
13.12.150  52.29
13.12.160  52.30
13.12.170  52.31
13.12.180  52.32
13.12.190  52.33
13.12.200  52.34
13.12.210  52.35
13.12.220  52.36
13.12.230  52.37
13.12.240  52.38
13.12.250  52.39
13.12.260  52.50
13.12.270  52.51
13.12.280  52.52
13.12.290  52.53
13.12.300  52.54
13.12.310  52.55
13.12.320  52.56
13.12.330  52.70
13.12.340  52.71
13.12.350  52.72
13.12.360  52.73
13.12.370  52.74
13.12.380  52.99
13.16.010  53.01
13.16.020  53.02
13.16.030  53.03
13.16.040  53.04
13.16.050  53.05
13.16.060  53.06
15.04.010  150.01
15.04.020  150.01
15.08.010  150.02
15.08.020  150.99
15.12.010  150.03
15.12.020  150.03
15.12.030  150.03
15.12.040  150.03
15.12.050  150.03
15.12.060  150.03
15.12.070  150.03
15.12.080  150.03
15.12.090  150.03
15.12.100  150.03
15.12.110  150.99
15.16.010  150.04;
           150.99
15.20.010  150.05
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
05-17    10-2-2005   33.03
05-19    10-20-2005  33.04
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
88-04    --          34.01
88-05    --          50.13
89-04    --          150.01
89-05    --          91.03;
                     91.99
89-08    --          94.05
                     95.25—
90-01    --          95.29;
                     95.99
                     51.01—
                     51.09;
                     51.25—
                     51.33;
                     51.45—
                     51.49;
                     52.01—
90-02    --          52.10;
                     52.25—
                     52.39;
                     52.50—
                     52.56;
                     52.70—
                     52.74;
                     52.99
90-05    --          150.04
90-06    --          51.10
92-07    --          34.02
92-08    --          150.05
92-11    --          90.15—
                     90.19
92-14    --          10.99
93-05    --          31.03
93-08    --          53.01—
                     53.06
95-06    --          70.04;
                     70.99
95-07    --          70.05;
                     70.99
                     31.20;
                     31.21;
                     35.01;
                     35.02;
                     35.04—
                     35.07;
                     36.01—
                     36.07;
                     36.20;
                     36.99;
                     50.01—
                     50.10;
                     50.12;
                     70.02;
                     90.01—
96-03    --          90.03;
                     91.01;
                     91.17—
                     91.19;
                     91.31;
                     91.34;
                     91.45—
                     91.47;
                     91.99;
                     92.01—
                     92.06;
                     92.20—
                     92.22;
                     95.99;
                     130.01;
                     132.07
                     151.001—
                     151.008;
                     151.020—
                     151.023;
                     151.035—
                     151.038;
                     151.050—
                     151.062;
                     151.075;
                     151.076;
97-04    12-19-1996  151.090—
                     151.107;
                     151.120—
                     151.145;
                     151.160—
                     151.168;
                     151.180—
                     151.185;
                     151.999;
                     Ch. 151, App. A;
                     Ch. 151, App. B
97-02    2-20-1997   TSO Table II
97-05    2-28-1997   TSO Table IV
99-05    11-18-1999  TSO Table II
00-01    6-22-2000   TSO Table III
04-01    6-17-2004   30.01
04-04    7-29-2004   TSO Table III
04-05    7-29-2004   TSO Table III
                     33.15—
04-07    11-18-2004  33.20,
                     33.99
05-01    --2005      32.07
05-02    --2005      150.06
05-06    10-20-2005  33.01
05-07    10-20-2005  33.03
06-03    3-23-2006   TSO Table I
06-05    4-20-2006   TSO Table II
07-01    5-17-2007   54.01
05-01    3-20-2008   150.01
05-05    11-20-2008  51.25
08-04    11-20-2008  33.02
2010-02  9-16-2010   96.01—
                     96.04
2014-01  9-8-2014    30.02
                     31.05;
2015-02  3-16-2015   31.06;
                     32.22
2017-05  4-24-2017   70.04
2017-06  4-24-2017   70.99
2018-02  10-22-2018  95.01
2018-03  10-22-2018  95.29
2018-04  10-22-2018  95.30
                     52.75—
2019-02  7-22-2019   52.78;
                     52.99
2020-05  10-26-2020  TSO Table III
                     110.01—
2021-03  11-22-2021  110.21;
                     Ch. 110, App. A,
                     App. B
- -      12-9-2022   31.06
- -      - -         95.99
- -      12-20-2023  TSO Table III
- -      1-25-2024   31.20,
                     31.27
- -      4-24-2024   50.11,
                     51.03
- -      - -         150.04,
                     151.058
24-121   12-4-2024   151.058
                    
 
