COTTAGEVILLE, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2019-07, passed 6-24-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, sUITE 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Article
      
I.   CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
      
II.   THE CODE
      
III.   RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPALITY
      
IV.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
Section
   
1.101   Short title
   
1.102   Copy available in the Clerk’s office
   
1.103   Modification of code
   
1.104   General penalty
§ 1.101  SHORT TITLE.
   This code may be referred to as “the code of ordinances of 2020” or “the
Cottageville town code” or the “town code”.
§ 1.102  COPY AVAILABLE IN THE CLERK’S OFFICE.
   An official copy of this code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk
and made available to persons desiring to examine the same. It shall be the
duty of the Town Clerk to ensure that all subsequent amendments to this code
are inserted in the official copy, amended parts noted or removed and new
amendments distributed in the form of supplements to the holders of this code.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 1.103  MODIFICATION OF CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change, alter or amend any part of
this code, except by official action of the Town Council. Anyone guilty of so
doing shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to such punishment as
provided by §
1.104.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 1.104  GENERAL PENALTY.
   a.   Any act prohibited by this code, or any amendment hereto, for which a
penalty is not herein prescribed, shall be punishable as a misdemeanor by fine
or imprisonment, or both, to the extent permitted by the laws of the state;
provided, however, no fine shall exceed $500 or imprisonment for a term not to
exceed 30 days, or both. Each day any such violation shall continue shall be
treated as a separate offense, unless otherwise provided.
   b.   The Municipal Judge may order restitution in an amount not to exceed
$7,500. In determining the amount of restitution, the Judge shall determine and
itemize the actual amount of damage or loss in the order. In addition, the
judge may set an appropriate payment schedule.
   c.   A Municipal Judge may hold a party in contempt for failure to pay the
restitution ordered if the Judge finds the party has the ability to pay.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Ord. 2004-3, passed 11-15-2004)
ARTICLE II: THE CODE
Section
   
1.201   Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances
   
1.202   Severability of parts of code
   
1.203   Catchlines or catchwords of sections
   
1.204   Definitions
   
1.205   Rules of construction
   
1.206   Liability of corporations and the like, and agents for violations
   
1.207   Offenses beyond town limits
   
1.208   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance
   
1.209   Prosecution where different penalties exist for same offense
   
1.210   Corporate limits established
   
1.211   Municipal seal
   
1.212   Town logo
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws and generally
accepted municipal definitions.
§ 1.201  PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 1.202)
§ 1.202  SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Council that if
any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall be
declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code
since the same would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code
of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Prior Code, § 1.203)
§ 1.203  CATCHLINES OR CATCHWORDS OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in capital
letters, a different type or underlined are intended as mere catchwords to
indicate or emphasize the contents of such sections, not as any part of the
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of
such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(Prior Code, § 1.204)
§ 1.204  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOND. Where bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   CLERK/TREASURER. The Municipal Clerk, as provided by state law, and may be
used interchangeably with CLERK, MUNICIPAL CLERK or TOWN CLERK.
   CODE OF LAWS. The 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws. When the 1976 South
Carolina Code of Laws is used as a reference, i.e., (S.C. Code § 14-25-45), it
shall include all amendments.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done and be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last day
be Sunday or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   CORPORATE LIMITS. The legal boundary of the Town of Cottageville.
   COTTAGEVILLE TOWN CODE (CTC). The 2004 Code of Ordinances adopted by the
Mayor and Council.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL The Mayor and Council of the Town of Cottageville.
   COUNTY. The County of Colleton.
   DAY. A period of 24 hours.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision or section of this code
appears requiring the Clerk or head of a department of the town to do some act
or make certain inspections, it shall be construed to authorize them to
designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or
make the required inspection, unless the terms of the provision or section
expressly designate otherwise.
   DHEC. The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals (as the horse or sheep) domesticated
so as to live and breed in a tame condition.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the fire and police departments, ambulances
and/or emergency vehicles or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by SCDOT or by the Town Council.
   GENDER. See rules of construction (§
1.205 of this chapter).
   INTERPRETATION. In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, it shall be held to the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than the general provision imposed by this code, the provision
imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
   JUNK. Old iron, glass, paper or other waste that may be used in some form
again; second hand, or worn or discarded articles, clutter, something of poor
quality or of little meaning, worth or significance.
   JUNKYARD. A yard or area used to store sometimes resalable junk.
   KEEPER AND/OR PROPRIETOR. Include persons, firms, associations,
corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a
servant, agent or employee.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals kept or raised for use or pleasure, especially farm
animals kept for use and profit.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MINOR. For the purposes of this code, persons under the age of 18 years,
except in laws relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(S.C. Code § 15-1-320)
   MONTH. A calendar month, unless defined otherwise.
   MUNICIPAL CLERK. Includes CLERK/TREASURER, CLERK or TOWN CLERK.
   MUNICIPALITY. May be used interchangeably with TOWN and shall mean the
entire area within the corporate limits of the Town of Cottageville.
   MUST. Is mandatory.
   NAME OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL, TOWN COUNCIL, CLERK/TREASURER or OTHER OFFICER.
Shall be construed as though the words “of the Town of Cottageville” were
added.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Apply to the usage of such words. Words
and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of
the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have
acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and
understood according to such meaning.
   OATH, SWEAR or SWORN. Include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law,
an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be the equivalent to words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED and vice
versa.
   OR, AND. Shall be used interchangeably, if the sense requires it.
   OWNER. Include, when applied to a building or land, any part-owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Include an individual or individuals, a corporation, firm,
partnership, association, organization or any other group as a unit.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Include every species of property, except real property
as defined herein.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The next before and the next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. Place or places.
   PROPERTY. Include real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. All properties owned or controlled by public entities.
   REAL PROPERTY AND REAL ESTATE. Include lands, tenements and the
hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation,
and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of
returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place
where the person sleeps shall be deemed as his or her RESIDENCE.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   S.C. CODE. See SOUTH CAROLINA 1976 CODE OF LAWS.
   SCDHEC. The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   SCDOT. The South Carolina Department of Transportation.
   SEAL. The corporate seal of the Town of Cottageville.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb and the adjacent property line and
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SOUTH CAROLINA 1976 CODE OF LAWS. The 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, as
amended.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina, unless otherwise provided.
   STREET. Include avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, public alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto, and all other public
thoroughfares in the town, and shall mean the entire width thereof between
abutting property lines. It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or
footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Town Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
   TIME. Words used in the past or present tense and includes the future as
well as the past and present.
   TOWN. All the area embraced within the corporate limits of the Town of
Cottageville.
   WEEK. Seven days, Sunday through Saturday, unless it is clearly indicated to
mean otherwise.
   WRITING. The words WRITING or WRITTEN shall include printing and any other
mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless it is clearly indicated that the fiscal year
is intended.
(Prior Code, § 1.205)
Editor’s note:
   In certain chapters, additional definitions have been added, the text
requiring it.
§ 1.205  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply.
   a.   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
   b.   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females also
and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
   c.   All words importing the present tense also shall apply to the future.
(Prior Code, § 1.206)
§ 1.206  LIABILITY OF CORPORATIONS AND THE LIKE, AND AGENTS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   a.   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person acting
for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization, while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment,
shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation,
association or organization.
   b.   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or
order of any such person.
(Prior Code, § 1.208)
Editor’s note:
   See State v. Johnson, 255 S.C. 14, 176 S.E. 2nd 575 (1970)
§ 1.207  OFFENSES BEYOND TOWN LIMITS.
   Any person committing any offense in, at or upon lands owned by the town or
leased to the town outside the limits of the town shall be deemed and
considered as committing an offense against the provisions of this code and
other ordinances of the town and shall be triable for the same like manner and
to the same extent as other offenders.
(Prior Code, § 1.209)
§ 1.208  EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCE.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired. When an ordinance that repealed
another shall itself be repealed, the previous ordinance shall not be revised
without express words to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 1.210)
§ 1.209  PROSECUTION WHERE DIFFERENT PENALTIES EXIST FOR SAME OFFENSE.
   In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable, or shall be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the municipality,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed. Not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.213)
§ 1.210  CORPORATE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   A map of the town, when prepared, shall indicate the territorial limits,
and, when approved by the Town Council and attested by the Clerk/Treasurer, is
hereby designated as the official map of the town. The corporate limits as
shown thereon are declared to be true and correct.
(Prior Code, § 1.214)
§ 1.211  MUNICIPAL SEAL.
   The municipality shall have a seal which shall be affixed to all deeds of
real estate executed on behalf of the municipality and to all notes, bonds and
other evidences of indebtedness executed in behalf of the municipality, or when
deemed necessary by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.215)
§ 1.212  TOWN LOGO.
   The logo of the town, as shown below, is hereby approved and adopted the
official town logo.
(Res. 2009-1, passed 5-4-2009)
ARTICLE III: RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPALITY
Section
   
1.301   Code enforcement
   
1.302   Freedom of information requests
§ 1.301  CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   a.   Prior to enforcement action by the town on a complaint, each
complainant and alleged violator shall be requested to participate in mediation
unless Code Enforcement staff, in its sole discretion, determines the complaint
concerns an immediate threat of danger to health, life, safety or irreparable
environmental damage, or for another reason is not appropriate for mediation.
Code Enforcement will follow the procedures outlined below when receiving a
complaint of a code violation.
      1.   Step 1: Evaluation. Code Enforcement will evaluate the complaint to
determine whether immediate action is necessary because it involves an
immediate threat of danger to health, life, safety or irreparable environmental
damage. Code Enforcement will also evaluate whether the alleged violation is
preventable and requires an immediate “stop work order”. Code Enforcement
retains the complete discretion to determine when an alleged violation requires
immediate action.
      2.   Step 2: Notify parties of mediation. Within ten days after receiving
the complaint, Code Enforcement shall request that the town’s mediation service
contact the complainant and the alleged violator to encourage their
participation in mediation within 30 days from the date of the complaint or as
soon thereafter as a mediator is available.
      3.   Step 3: Mediation. The mediation process shall be as follows.
         (a)   The parties shall attempt to mediate a solution in front of an
impartial mediator. The mediator shall be a trained mediator from the town’s
mediation service or another mutually agreeable mediator.
         (b)   The mediation meeting may be informal. The mediation process may
include the hearing of viewpoints of interested neighbors or other persons.
Parties are encouraged to contact immediate neighbors and solicit input.
         (c)   The mediator shall consider the purposes and policies set forth
in the applicable ordinance in attempting to resolve the dispute. The mediator
will outline options and set time frames based on the issues relevant under the
code in question.
         (d)   The mediator shall not have the power to issue binding orders
for restorative action, but shall strive to enable the parties to resolve their
dispute by written agreement in order to expedite the corrective action and
eliminate the need for further involvement by Code Enforcement staff. If the
alleged violation can be solved through the outlined options, to the
satisfaction of the parties and the town, the parties shall enter into a signed
and dated compliance agreement which sets forth specific compliance
requirements and schedule.
         (e)   If a signed and dated compliance agreement satisfactory to the
town is consummated through this mediation process, the violation is corrected
and the case is closed.
      4.   Step 4: Code Enforcement prioritization. Code Enforcement will in
its sole and complete discretion prioritize the complaint into the levels
listed below. The response time will depend on the priority level of the
alleged code violation.
         (a)   First priority. Alleged violations which Code Enforcement
determines to involve health, life, safety or irreparable environmental damage
concerns or in which significant environmental damage or costly remediation can
be avoided by issuance of an immediate stop work order.
         (b)   Second priority. Alleged violations which Code Enforcement
determines to directly affect the complainant or the complainant’s property.
         (c)   Third priority. Alleged violations other than first, second and
fourth priority levels.
         (d)   Forth priority. Alleged violations made by a complainant who
refuses to participate in mediation.
   b.   In determining the priority of a specific enforcement action within the
third priority level, Code Enforcement staff may consider any and all factors
it deems relevant, including, but not limited to, whether resources are best
spent on one violation or another; whether Code Enforcement is likely to
succeed if it acts; whether the particular enforcement action requested best
fits the town’s overall policies; and whether Code Enforcement has enough
resources to undertake the action at all.
(Res. 2008-3, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 1.302  FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUESTS.
   a.   This is the town’s policy in handling FOI requests.
   b.   The individual may inspect the records to determine which documents he
or she want copied, an appointment is necessary for record review. Some
requests may require additional search and preparation. Staff time locating
documents not readily available, preparation and copying will be charged at the
rate of $16.30 per hour, or portion thereof. Copies of records can be made by
town staff, or the individual may make his or her own copies if he or she has
portable equipment. Original records may not be removed from Town Hall. The
cost of copying documents will be charged at $0.14 per page. Faxing will be
$0.50 a page.
(Ord. passed 4-7-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Appendix A.
ARTICLE IV: PENALTIES
Section
   
1.401   Penalty
§ 1.401  PENALTY.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 1.401)
Editor’s note:
   A penalty section has been included in this code as the last article of each
chapter.
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
      
III.   MEETINGS OF TOWN COUNCIL
      
IV.   MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
      
V.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
VI.   CLERK/TREASURER
      
VII.   MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY
      
VIII.   PERSONNEL
      
IX.   TRAVEL POLICY
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
2.101   Form of government
   
2.102   Town Council; composition
   
2.103   Same; terms
   
2.104   Same; eligibility
   
2.105   Compensation; increases; actual expenses
   
2.106   Mayor; duties
   
2.107   Mayor Pro Tem; duties
   
2.108   Oath of office; required
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, the town
questionnaire and generally accepted municipal practices. (Also, see
Article IV, this chapter, for Municipal Elections.)
§ 2.101  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government for the town shall be the Mayor - Council.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-5-10 and 5-9-10 et seq.)  (Prior Code, § 2.101)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Appendix C
§ 2.102  TOWN COUNCIL; COMPOSITION.
   The Town Council shall be composed of a Mayor and of four Council members.
(Prior Code, § 2.102)
§ 2.103  SAME; TERMS.
   The term of office for Mayor shall be four years; for Council it shall be
four years.
(S.C. Code § 5-15-40)  (Prior Code, § 2.103)
Editor’s note:
   In a letter dated December 11, 1995, the Department of Justice let stand a
change from two-year to four-year terms for Council.
§ 2.104  SAME; ELIGIBILITY.
   To be eligible for the office of Mayor or as a member of the Council, a
candidate shall be a qualified elector of the municipality.
(S.C. Code § 7-5-120)  (Prior Code, § 2.104)
Cross-reference:
   Qualifications for voting, see §
2.416.
§ 2.105  COMPENSATION; INCREASES; ACTUAL EXPENSES.
   a.   1.   The Mayor shall be paid an annual salary.
      2.   The Council shall be paid an annual salary.
   b.   Increases in compensation shall be approved by ordinance and shall not
become effective until the commencement date of the next general election.
   c.   The Mayor and members of Council may receive payment for actual
expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties when supported by
official expense vouchers.
   d.   Payment for personal vehicle travel shall be computed at the current
tax rate, per mile.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-170)  (Prior Code, § 2.105)  (Ord. 2009-5, passed 11-2-2009)
Editor’s note:
   Compensation includes anything of value provided at public expense for
performing official duties.
   Retirement benefits, insurance benefits, vehicles, and the like, which are
not reimbursement of actual expenses incurred while performing official duties
should also be included in the ordinance setting salaries. Salary setting is a
legislative matter the Council must address by ordinance.
(UPTOWN, May, 1997, page 6.)
§ 2.106  MAYOR; DUTIES.
   a.   The Mayor shall preside at all regular and special meetings of Council,
shall execute, on behalf of Council, all ordinances, resolutions, directives,
deeds, bonds and other official instruments or documents directed by state law
or Council.
   b.   He or she shall have other such duties as set forth in S.C. Code § 5-9-
10.
(Prior Code, § 2.106)
§ 2.107  MAYOR PRO TEM; DUTIES.
   a.   The Council shall elect from among its members a Mayor Pro Tem, at the
first January meeting following a general election. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act
for the Mayor during the absence or disability of the Mayor. In case of a
vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall serve until a successor
is elected.
   b.   In the absence of both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem, such member of the
Council shall perform the duties of the Mayor as the Council may designate.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-190)  (Prior Code, § 2.107)
§ 2.108  OATH OF OFFICE; REQUIRED.
   The Mayor, each member of Council and other officials, when required, before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, shall take the following
oath:
   I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to the
constitution of this state, to exercise the duties of the office to which I
have been elected (or appointed) and that I will, to the best of my ability,
discharge the duties thereof, and preserve, protect and defend the constitution
of this state and of the United States.
(Art. VI, Sec. 5, S. C. Constitution)
   As Mayor (Council member, Judge, police officer, and the like) of the Town
of Cottageville I will equally, fairly and impartially, to the best of my
ability and skill, exercise the trust reposed in me, and I will use my best
endeavors to preserve the peace and carry into effect according to law the
purposes for which I have been elected (or appointed). So help me, God.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-15-150 and 14-25-15)  (Prior Code, § 2.108)
ARTICLE II: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Section
   
2.201   Ordinances
   
2.202   Same; six days between readings; amendments
   
2.203   Same; book of
   
2.204   Same; notation of amendments or repeals; reference
   
2.205   Same; enacting clause
   
2.206   Same; required by state law
   
2.207   Same; annual codification
   
2.208   Same; form of; to be signed
   
2.209   Same; introduction; attorney approval; public inspection
   
2.210   Same; final form before adoption
   
2.211   Emergency ordinances; expiration; reading; restrictions
   
2.212   Same; state of emergency; powers of the Mayor; curfew
   
2.213   Resolutions; introduction
   
2.214   Same; adoption
Cross-reference:
   Municipal elections, see
Article IV
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, the town
questionnaire and generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 2.201  ORDINANCES.
   a.   It shall be the duty of the Council to pass, from time to time, such
ordinances as in its judgment shall best promote the interests of the citizens
and property owners of the municipality.
(Ops. S.C. Atty. Gen. dated November 25, 1986)
   b.   All ordinances should be numbered. Many municipalities use only a
number without using the year, such as No. 23, No. 24, and the like. In other
municipalities, however, ordinance numbers begin with the year of adoption
followed by 1, 2, 3, and the like, for example: No. 04-1, No. 04-2, No. 04-3,
and the like.)
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 2.201)
§ 2.202  SAME; SIX DAYS BETWEEN READINGS; AMENDMENTS.
   a.   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read two times
and on two separate days with at least six days between each reading.
   b.   The introduction and reading of any ordinance may be by the reading of
the title only, unless full reading is requested by a majority of Council
members present.
   c.   An ordinance may be amended at the time of a second reading.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-270)  (Prior Code, § 2.202)
Cross-reference:
   See Appendix B for details of ordinance preparation.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see S.C. Code § 19-3-10
§ 2.203  SAME; BOOK OF.
   a.   The Clerk/Treasurer shall place in a book the original copy of all
ordinances passed by the Council.
   b.   The book shall be known as “the book of ordinances”.
   c.   The book shall contain the dates of first and second readings of all
ordinances, notation of repeals or amendments, whether or not the ordinance is
to be codified and a brief summary of the contents.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-290)  (Prior Code, § 2.203)
§ 2.204  SAME; NOTATION OF AMENDMENTS OR REPEALS; REFERENCE.
   a.   The Clerk/Treasurer shall write on the first page of every ordinance,
subsequent to entry in the book of ordinances, if the same shall be amended or
repealed, as the case may be.
   b.   The words “amended” or “repealed” shall be added with a reference
inserted in the margin on the ordinance as to where the amending or repealing
ordinance can be found.
(Prior Code, § 2.204)
§ 2.205  SAME; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be in substance as follows: BE
IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF COTTAGEVILLE, SOUTH CAROLINA THAT:
(Prior Code, § 2.205)
§ 2.206  SAME; REQUIRED BY STATE LAW.
   a.   The Council shall act by ordinance in all matters required by law to be
done by ordinance, in order to:
      1.   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or abolish
any department, office or agency;
      2.   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
      3.   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
      4.   Grant, renew or extend franchises, licenses or rights in public
streets, or in public property and close abandoned streets;
      5.   Authorize the borrowing of money or the issuance of bonds;
      6.   Levy taxes, assess property for improvements or establish charges
for services;
      7.   Annex areas;
      8.   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands;
and
      9.   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in divisions a.1. through
a.8. above.
   b.   In all other matters, the Council may act either by ordinance,
resolution or on motion, written or oral, which shall be recorded in the
minutes.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-7-30 and 5-7-260)  (Prior Code, § 2.206)
§ 2.207  SAME; ANNUAL CODIFICATION.
   All ordinances amending this code shall be codified as often as desired, but
at least annually, in loose-leaf form and available for public inspection
during normal office hours.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-290)  (Prior Code, § 2.207)
§ 2.208  SAME; FORM OF; TO BE SIGNED.
   a.   Every proposed ordinance shall be numbered, in writing and in the form
required for final adoption.
   b.   All ordinances shall include:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title briefly describing the contents;
(South Carolina Attorney General Opinion No. 86-117, p 343.)
      3.   Findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired and when
appropriate;
      4.   An enacting clause;
      5.   A repealing provision, when appropriate;
      6.   The provisions of the ordinance including section numbers, when
appropriate;
      7.   The name of the person introducing the ordinance, when requested by
him or her;
      8.   The effective date of the ordinance, dates of first and second
readings and, when requested, approval of the Town Attorney as to form; and
      9.   The Mayor and Council shall sign and the Clerk/Treasurer shall
attest all ordinances, following adoption thereof.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-270)  (Prior Code, § 2.208)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Appendix B of this code.
§ 2.209  SAME; INTRODUCTION; ATTORNEY APPROVAL; PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   a.   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of Council.
   b.   After an ordinance is introduced, the Clerk/Treasurer shall hold the
ordinance for public inspection. An ordinance shall be deemed to be introduced
when, at a public meeting of Council, its title is read.
   c.   When appropriate, a proposed ordinance shall be referred to the
Municipal Attorney for approval as to legality and form. He or she shall render
assistance in the preparation of ordinances when requested to do so.
(Prior Code, § 2.209)
Editor’s note:
   Electors may propose ordinances except an ordinance appropriating money or
authorizing the levy of taxes.
Statutory reference:
   See S.C. Code § 5-17-10, as amended.
§ 2.210  SAME; FINAL FORM BEFORE ADOPTION.
   All ordinances shall be complete in the form when it is adopted on second
reading.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-270)  (Prior Code, § 2.210)
Editor’s note:
   Requirement of six days between readings, see §
2.202
§ 2.211  EMERGENCY ORDINANCES; EXPIRATION; READING; RESTRICTIONS.
   a.   Emergency ordinances shall expire automatically as of the sixty-first
day following the date of enactment
   b.   Emergency ordinances may be adopted without regard for any reading,
without notice or hearing, by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members
present.
   c.   An emergency ordinance may not levy taxes.
   d.   An emergency ordinance may not relate to a franchise or a service rate.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-7-250 and 5-7-250(d))  (Prior Code, § 2.211)
Editor’s note:
   The reader is referred to the S.C. Code §§ 5-7-250 – 5-7-280 for further
details as to emergency requirements.
§ 2.212  SAME; STATE OF EMERGENCY; POWERS OF THE MAYOR; CURFEW.
   a.   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crises, disaster, rioting, civil disturbances, catastrophe or for
any other reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health, welfare or property.
   b.   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the citizenry or threatening damage to or
destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue
a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency.
   c.   In order to more effectively protect lives, safety and property, to
define and impose a curfew applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of
the Town Council, the Mayor is further authorized and empowered to limit the
application of such a curfew to any area specifically designated and described
within the jurisdiction of the Town Council and to specific hours of the day or
night and to exempt from the curfew law enforcement officers, firefighters,
doctors, nurses and such others as may be essential to the preservation of
public order and immediately necessary to serve the needs of the people within
the corporate limits.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-250)  (Prior Code, § 2.212)
§ 2.213  RESOLUTIONS; INTRODUCTION.
   a.   A voice motion by a member of Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution that shall require no written record other
than a notation by the Clerk/Treasurer in the Council minutes.
   b.   A resolution proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same manner
as an ordinance and, when appropriate, in such form as may be recommended as
applicable by the Municipal Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2.213)
§ 2.214  SAME; ADOPTION.
   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on one reading.
(Prior Code, § 2.214)
Editor’s note:
   Resolutions are not codified; however, some municipalities file them in
their book of ordinances, for convenience.
ARTICLE III: MEETINGS OF TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
2.301   Meetings; regular; place
   
2.302   Same; special; work sessions
   
2.303   Same; notice of change
   
2.304   Same; open to public
   
2.305   Reserved
   
2.306   Agenda
   
2.307   Appearance of citizens
   
2.308   Minutes of Town Council meetings
   
2.309   Quorum; required
   
2.310   Rules of order; parliamentarian
   
2.311   Motions; to be in writing
   
2.312   Unlawful to interrupt meetings
   
2.313   Order of business
   
2.314   Voting
   
2.315   Conduct of meetings; generally
   
2.316   Motions; not debatable
   
2.317   Same; precedence during debate
   
2.318   Same; to reconsider
   
2.319   Committees; appointment; public hearings
   
2.320   Same; reports
   
2.321   Same; order of reports
   
2.322   Executive sessions
   
2.323   Executive session
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, the town
questionnaire and generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 2.301  MEETINGS; REGULAR; PLACE.
   a.   The regular meetings of Town Council shall be held at Town Hall on the
first Monday of each month, at 7:00 p. m., local time.
   b.   In the event an official town holiday falls on the scheduled Town
Council meeting date, the regular meeting shall be held as determined by
Council.
   c.   Written public notice of the regular meeting shall be given at the
beginning of each calendar year, as required by S.C. Code § 30-4-80.
(Prior Code, § 2.301)
Cross-reference:
   For change in date, see §
2.303
§ 2.302  SAME; SPECIAL; WORK SESSIONS.
   a.   Special meetings may be held:
      1.   Whenever called by the Mayor in cases of emergency;
      2.   When, in the judgment of the Mayor, the good of the municipality
requires it; or
      3.   By a majority of the members of Council.
   b.   Work sessions shall be treated as regular meetings and shall have an
agenda.
(Prior Code, § 2.302)
§ 2.303  SAME; NOTICE OF CHANGE.
   Notice of all changed meetings and special meetings shall be given to all
available members and the news media, as required by the state Freedom of
Information Act, being S.C. Code Title 30, Chapter 4.
(Prior Code, § 2.303)
§ 2.304  SAME; OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   All Council meetings shall be open to the public and shall be governed by
the state Freedom of Information Act, being S.C. Code Title 30, Chapter 4.
(Prior Code, § 2.304)
§ 2.305  RESERVED.
§ 2.306  AGENDA.
   a.   Matters to be considered at a regular meeting or work session shall be
placed on a written agenda and posted at least 24 hours before the meeting.
   b.   Special meetings shall be posted at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting, and the time of posting shall be indicated on the notice.
   c.   Council members may add items to the agenda at any time prior to the
posting.
   d.   Items shall be removed from the agenda, only with the consent of a
majority of Council.
   e.   The agenda shall be prepared by the Town Clerk.
(S.C. Code § 30-4-80(A))  (Prior Code, § 2.306)
§ 2.307  APPEARANCE OF CITIZENS.
   Any citizen of the town shall be entitled to be placed on the agenda of any
regular meeting to discuss any municipal matter, with the exception of
personnel and contractual matters.
(Prior Code, § 2.307)
Cross-reference:
   Conduct of meetings, see also §
2.315.f
§ 2.308  MINUTES OF TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   a.   The minutes of all public meetings of the Council shall be a matter of
permanent public record. At each regular Council meeting, the minutes of the
previous meeting or meetings shall be presented for approval. Minutes shall not
be considered the official record of a meeting until approved by the Council.
   b.   Any member of Council desiring to express a position in the minutes on
a matter voted upon by Council may do so by presenting the position in writing
to Council not later than the next regular meeting.
   c.   No person shall make any change in the minutes or remove same from Town
Hall without prior approval of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2.308)
§ 2.309  QUORUM; REQUIRED.
   a.   All actions of Council shall require a quorum.
   b.   A majority of the total membership of Council shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of transacting Council business.
(Prior Code, § 2.309)
Editor’s note:
   Division b. is a direct quote from the S.C. Code § 5-7-160.
§ 2.310  RULES OF ORDER; PARLIAMENTARIAN.
   a.   Except as otherwise provided by state law or this code, all proceedings
of Council shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
   b.   The Municipal Attorney shall act as parliamentarian when present. In
his or her absence, all questions of order shall be decided by the Mayor or, in
his or her absence, the presiding officer, who shall be selected by a majority
vote of members.
(Prior Code, § 2.310)
§ 2.311  MOTIONS; TO BE IN WRITING.
   A motion shall be reduced to writing, at the request of the Mayor or of a
majority of Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.311)
§ 2.312  UNLAWFUL TO INTERRUPT MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to interrupt the proceedings
of Council, the court or any other official body while in session.
(Prior Code, § 2.312)
Cross-reference:
   Interrupting court, see §
14.707
§ 2.313  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of proceedings of Council meetings, when desired, may be
substantially as follows, or as otherwise provided by Council:
   a.   Invocation;
   b.   Approval of the minutes;
   c.   Unfinished business;
   d.   Council committee reports;
   e.   Department reports;
   f.   New business;
   g.   Finance reports, bills, and the like;
   h.   Citizens’ agenda; and
   i.   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 2.313)
§ 2.314  VOTING.
   a.   The result of each vote on every question shall be recorded in the
minutes by the Clerk/Treasurer. The “yeas” and “nays” on any question shall be
recorded, when requested by any member.
   b.   Every member of Council shall vote on every question, except when
required to refrain from voting by state law.
   c.   A show of hands or a voice vote shall be sufficient to record votes.
The Mayor shall be entitled to vote as other members of Council.
   d.   The Mayor may make a motion without leaving the chair.
   e.   During the meeting, no member shall leave the Council chamber without
permission from the presiding officer.
   f.   Any member abstaining from voting shall submit his or her reason in
writing, which shall be given to the Council for inclusion in the official
minutes of the Council meeting, when requested by a majority of Council.
   g.   Any member, at his or her request, shall have his or her reasons for
voting for or against any measure recorded in the minutes.
   h.   Neither the Mayor nor any member of Council shall vote on any question
of a private nature in which he or she is personally or financially interested.
(S.C. Code § 8-13-700)  (Prior Code, § 2.314)
Editor’s note:
   The Municipal Association strongly recommends that all members vote on every
question, except when required by law to refrain, such as having personal
interest in the matter under discussion.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-130 and 5-13-30.
§ 2.315  CONDUCT OF MEETINGS; GENERALLY.
   a.   The presiding officer shall not abuse his or her position by
controlling or directing debate to favor his or her views.
   b.   The presiding officer shall ensure that all Council members have an
opportunity to express their views on matters properly presented for
discussion. The presiding officer may temporarily relinquish the chair in order
to engage in active debate or discussion.
   c.   The presiding officer shall have the same rights/responsibilities as
other Council members with regard to making motions and voting, without leaving
the chair.
   d.   During a meeting, Council members shall request permission of the Mayor
or presiding officer before speaking. One member shall speak at a time.
   e.   Council members have the right to disagree, but shall not engage in
shouting, arguments or personally disrespectful behavior towards each other
during meetings.
   f.   All citizens have a right to participate in, but not to interrupt Town
Council meetings. Therefore, a period of time (citizens’ agenda) shall be set
aside at every meeting to afford citizens an opportunity to speak on any town
related subject. Citizens wishing to speak shall add their name and address to
a roster maintained by the Clerk, if requested to do so.
   g.   Citizens may also request to be added to the regular agenda at the next
scheduled meeting. If a number of citizens wish to speak at any meeting, the
Mayor or presiding officer may reasonably limit the length of time allotted to
each citizen and shall state the time limitations before the public comments
begin.
   h.   In unusual cases and by a majority vote, Council may permit public
discussion or input on a specific subject during a meeting. Otherwise, no
person from the audience may interrupt the Council meeting or address the
Council unless recognized by the Mayor or presiding officer. Citizens who have
been denied permission to speak may be placed on the citizens’ agenda. Persons
who are disorderly or who act in a threatening manner may be asked to leave the
Council chamber.
   i.   No member of Council shall speak more than twice on the same question,
except to explain his or her position, without concurrence of a majority of the
Council.
   j.   Rules of procedure may be temporarily suspended during a meeting by a
favorable two-thirds vote of Council present at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.315)
Editor’s note:
   This section derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 2.316  MOTIONS; NOT DEBATABLE.
   The following motions shall be without debate:
   a.   To adjourn;
   b.   To lay on the table;
   c.   To read any paper;
   d.   To take the “yeas” and “nays” for the previous question; and
   e.   To reconsider.
(Prior Code, § 2.316)
§ 2.317  SAME; PRECEDENCE DURING DEBATE.
   a.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received except a
motion:
      1.   To adjourn;
      2.   To lay on the table;
      3.   For the previous question;
      4.   To postpone to a certain day; and
      5.   To commit, to amend or to postpone indefinitely.
   b.   The above motions shall have precedence in the order in which they are
set forth.
(Prior Code, § 2.317)
§ 2.318  SAME; TO RECONSIDER.
   A motion to reconsider shall not be entertained unless it be made by a
member of Council who voted with the majority, and such motion shall be made
only at the same or next succeeding meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.318)
§ 2.319  COMMITTEES; APPOINTMENT; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   a.   The Council may appoint a committee to hold a public hearing upon any
matter pending before it, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
   b.   Minutes or reports of hearings held by such committees shall be filed
with the Clerk/Treasurer as public records.
(Prior Code, § 2.319)
§ 2.320  SAME; REPORTS.
   Standing committee reports may be in writing and signed by a majority of the
committee. Any report involving the expenditure of money shall be in writing
and include the amount to be expended, or an approximation thereof, and the
reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2.320)
§ 2.321  SAME; ORDER OF REPORTS.
   Reports of committees, in the order of business, shall be rendered as the
presiding officer may determine, unless otherwise required by Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.321)
§ 2.322  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   a.   Council may hold executive sessions as permitted by the state’s Freedom
of Information Act, being S.C. Code Title 30, Chapter 4, at such times and
places as Council may deem necessary and in the public interest.
   b.   A majority vote of Council members shall be necessary to call such
sessions, and the reason shall be stated in the motion, as required by the
Freedom of Information Act.
   c.   No official action may be taken in an executive session.
   d.   Any action which results from an executive session discussion shall be
taken in open session prior to such action becoming effective, as required by
the Freedom of Information Act.
(Prior Code, § 2.322)
§ 2.323  EXECUTIVE SESSION.
   Except as required by law or as allowed in the exercise of official duties,
it shall be unlawful for a member of Council or person in attendance at an
executive session of the Council to disclose to another person or make public
the substance of a matter discussed in an executive session of the Council.
(Ord. 2008-6, passed 12-1-2008)
ARTICLE IV: MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
Section
   
2.401   Election laws of the state to govern
   
2.402   Municipal election; Commission established; terms; vacancies
   
2.403   Date of elections; at large
   
2.404   Voting hours; place
   
2.405   Filing; statement of candidacy; petitions
   
2.406   Same; fees
   
2.407   Oath
   
2.408   Certification
   
2.409   Public notice required
   
2.410   Write-in votes
   
2.411   Successors to be qualified
   
2.412   When qualified; assuming office
   
2.413   Political parties
   
2.414   Nonpartisan elections; runoffs; tie votes; contested results
   
2.415   Special
   
2.416   Qualifications for voting
   
2.417   Conducting elections; responsibilities
Editor’s note:
The United States Congress has mandated that any ordinance which impacts upon
the election process must be cleared in advance by the United States Department
of Justice. (§ 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended.)
Under state law, each municipal governing body shall determine by ordinance the
time for filing nominating petitions, holding primary elections or conventions,
the time for conventions, the time for closing of entries, and the time and
manner of filing by candidates in nonpartisan elections.
The municipal governing body may determine by ordinance that either filing a
statement of candidacy or a petition with the municipal election commission is
required to place the name of the candidate on the ballot in nonpartisan
general elections.
This article derives from the S.C. Code §§ 5-15-40 et seq., as amended and
generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 2.401  ELECTION LAWS OF THE STATE TO GOVERN.
   All municipal elections shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions
of the election laws of this state.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-15-20 et seq.)  (Prior Code, § 2.401)
§ 2.402  MUNICIPAL ELECTION; COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   a.   There is hereby established a Municipal Election Commission, composed
of three electors, who shall be residents of the municipality and who shall
serve terms of six years.
   b.   Members shall be appointed by the Town Council and shall conduct all
municipal elections.
   c.   The Council shall appoint an interim commissioner to fulfill the duties
of any disabled member for the duration of the election period.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-15-40 et seq. and 5-15-100)  (Prior Code, § 2.402)
Editor’s note:
   S.C. Code § 5-15-145 authorizes municipalities to transfer authority for
conducting municipal elections to the County Election Commission and outlines
procedures to be followed.
§ 2.403  DATE OF ELECTIONS; AT LARGE.
   All general Council elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November of each odd numbered year. All municipal elections
shall be at large.
(S.C. Code § 5-15-50)  (Prior Code, § 2.403)
§ 2.404  VOTING HOURS; PLACE.
   Polling places shall be open from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., at the Town Hall
or as otherwise determined by Council and incorporated in the minutes of
Council.
(S.C. Code § 7-13-60)  (Prior Code, § 2.404)
§ 2.405  FILING; STATEMENT OF CANDIDACY; PETITIONS.
   a.   A statement of candidacy shall be filed by all candidates for election,
not less than 60 days prior to an election.
   b.   Petitions shall not be required.
(S.C. Code § 5-15-70)  (Prior Code, § 2.405)
§ 2.406  SAME; FEES.
   The filing fee for the office of Mayor shall be $100 and the filing fee for
the office of Council member shall be $50.
(Prior Code, § 2.406)  (Ord. 2012-05, passed 1-7-2013)
§ 2.407  OATH.
   Each candidate shall sign an oath of candidacy, which shall be obtained from
the Election Commission or its designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 2.407)
§ 2.408  CERTIFICATION.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall certify the nominees to the Municipal Election
Commission at least 30 days prior to the election.
(Prior Code, § 2.408)
§ 2.409  PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Public notice of all municipal elections shall be given at least 60 days
prior to such elections, as required by law.
(S.C. Code § 5-15-50)  (Prior Code, § 2.409)
§ 2.410  WRITE-IN VOTES.
   Electors shall be permitted to cast write-in votes.
(S.C. Code § 7-13-1380)  (Prior Code, § 2.410)
§ 2.411  SUCCESSORS TO BE QUALIFIED.
   The Mayor and members of Council shall serve, until their successors have
been duly elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2.411)
§ 2.412  WHEN QUALIFIED; ASSUMING OFFICE.
   Newly elected members of Council shall be qualified and assume office at the
next Council meeting following the election.
(S.C. Code § 5-15-20)  (Prior Code, § 2.412)
§ 2.413  POLITICAL PARTIES.
   No political party or affiliation shall be placed on the ballot for any
candidate.
(Prior Code, § 2.413)
§ 2.414  NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS; RUNOFFS; TIE VOTES; CONTESTED RESULTS.
   a.   As prescribed in S.C. Code § 5-15-62, election results shall be
determined under the nonpartisan election and runoff election method.
   b.   If any election results in a tie, the Municipal Election Commission
shall conduct a runoff election two weeks following that election.
   c.   Should the results of an election be contested, the incumbent who fills
that contested office shall hold over until the contest is finally determined.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-15-125 and 5-15-130)  (Prior Code, § 2.414)  (Ord. 1-04, passed
2-2-2004)
Editor’s note:
   Since the requirements of S.C. Code §§ 5-15-62 et seq., are too lengthy to
reproduce in this code, the reader is referred to that section for detailed
information.
§ 2.415  SPECIAL.
   Special elections, when required, shall be scheduled by the Municipal
Election Commission. Public notice of such elections shall be given at least 60
days prior thereto, and the other provisions of this article, as appropriate,
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 2.415)
Editor’s note:
   A vacancy on Town Council with 181 days or more of the unexpired term
requires a special election.
§ 2.416  QUALIFICATIONS FOR VOTING.
   Every citizen of the town shall be entitled to vote in all municipal
elections if he or she is or has:
   a.   Reached the age of 18 years and upwards;
   b.   Not laboring under disabilities named in the constitution of 1895 of
this state;
   c.   Resided in the corporate limits for 30 days previous to any municipal
election; and
   d.   Been registered for county, state and national elections.
(S.C. Code § 7-5-120)  (Prior Code, § 2.416)
Cross-reference:
   Town Council eligibility, see also §
2.104.
§ 2.417  CONDUCTING ELECTIONS; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   a.   The County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall advertise
municipal elections, prepare and distribute ballots and election materials,
appoint managers of election for each polling place and otherwise supervise and
conduct all municipal elections within the town.
   b.   Immediately upon the closing of the polls at any municipal election in
the town, the County Voter Registration and Elections Commission shall begin to
count and continuously count the votes cast and make a statement of the whole
number of votes cast in such election, together with the number of votes cast
for each candidate for Mayor and Council member, canvass the vote and publicly
display the unofficial results.
   c.   The Voter Registration and Election Commission shall thereafter:
      1.   Certify the results of the elections and transmit the certified
results to the Town Council or an appointed authority representing the city
government as soon as practical following the certification;
      2.   Accept candidate filings and filing fees, including, but not limited
to notices of candidacy, candidacy pledges, hear and decide protests and
certify the results of municipal elections; and
      3.   Utilize an automated election system and computer counting with the
count publicly conducted.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 3-7-2011)
ARTICLE V: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
   
2.501   Responsibilities and powers of Mayor
   
2.502   Establishment of municipal departments, offices and agencies by Council
   
2.503   Employment of administrator to assist Mayor
   
2.504   Offices and agencies
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from S.C. Code § 5-9-30
§ 2.501  RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF MAYOR.
   a.   The Mayor shall be the chief administrative officer of the
municipality. He or she shall be responsible to Council for the administration
of all town affairs placed in his or her charge.
   b.   He or she shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To appoint and, when he or she deems it necessary for the good of
the municipality, suspend or remove all municipal employees and appointive
administrative officers, provided for by or under said Chapters 1 through 17,
except as otherwise provided by law, or personnel rules adopted pursuant to
said Chapters 1 through 17. He or she may authorize any administrative officer
who is subject to his or her direction and supervision to exercise these powers
with respect to subordinates in that officer’s department, office or agency;
      2.   To direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
offices and agencies of the municipality except as otherwise provided by said
Chapters 1 through 17;
      3.   To act to ensure that all laws, provisions of said Chapters 1
through 17 and ordinances of Council, subject to enforcement by him or her or
by officers subject to his or her direction and supervision, are faithfully
executed;
      4.   To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to
Council;
      5.   To submit to Council and make available to the public a complete
report on the finances and administrative activities of the municipality as of
the end of each fiscal year; and
      6.   To make such other reports as Council may require concerning the
operations of municipal departments, offices and agencies subject to his or her
direction and supervision.
(Prior Code, § 2.501)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Mayor, see §
2.106
§ 2.502  ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND AGENCIES BY
COUNCIL.
   Council may establish municipal departments, offices and agencies in
addition to those created by said Chapters 1 through 17 and may prescribe the
functions of all departments, offices and agencies, except that no function
assigned by law to a particular department, office or agency may be
discontinued or assigned to any other agency.
(Prior Code, § 2.502)
§ 2.503  EMPLOYMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR TO ASSIST MAYOR.
   The Mayor and Council may employ an administrator to assist the Mayor in his
or her office.
(Prior Code, § 2.503)
§ 2.504  OFFICES AND AGENCIES.
   All departments, offices and agencies thus established shall be administered
as determined by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.504)
ARTICLE VI: CLERK/TREASURER
Section
   
2.601   Appointment
   
2.602   Bond; surety company; fee
   
2.603   Duties
   
2.604   Compensation
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from S.C. Code § 5-7-220, as amended, and Ord. 99-3,
passed 12-6-1999; however, the usual practice is “the pleasure of Council”.
§ 2.601  APPOINTMENT.
   a.   The Council shall appoint an officer who shall have the title of
Municipal Clerk.
   b.   The Clerk also may be referred to as the Town Clerk.
   c.   The Clerk shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-220)  (Prior Code, § 2.601)
Editor’s note:
   The above reference requires the appointment of the Clerk to be made by
Council.
§ 2.602  BOND; SURETY COMPANY; FEE.
   a.   The Clerk/Treasurer shall, before entering upon the duties of his or
her office, give bond to the town in such an amount as prescribed by Council.
It shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or
her office and the faithful accounting for all funds of the town in his or her
custody.
   b.   The bond required shall be written by a surety company authorized by
law to engage in business in the state.
   c.   The fee shall be paid by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.602)
§ 2.603  DUTIES.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall:
   a.   Prepare, file and keep in an auditable, orderly manner all town
records;
   b.   Issue business licenses and permits in accordance with town ordinances.
Any questionable permits or licenses will be referred to the Mayor;
   c.   Serve as a receptionist for the town;
   d.   Receive and furnish information to the general public during the office
hours set by the Mayor;
   e.   Keep the Mayor and Council informed;
   f.   Notify press and pertinent personnel, post agendas (approved by the
Mayor) on outside of Town Hall at least 24 hours before Council meetings;
   g.   Receive, record and deposit all court and town revenues;
   h.   Keep adequate records to ensure accountability of all monies received
or dispersed;
   i.   Track budget expenditures by categories. Any over expenditures shall be
first approved by Town Council;
   j.   Keep the Mayor and Council informed as the need arises to approaching
over expenditures;
   k.   Pay all accounts payable in a timely manner; and
   l.   Keep records as required by the judge in ensure accountability of all
court revenues.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-220)  (Prior Code, § 2.603)  (Ord. 99-3, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 2.604  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Clerk/Treasurer shall be incorporated in the annual
budget.
(Prior Code, § 2.604)
ARTICLE VII: MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY
Section
   
2.701   Appointment; term of office; residence
   
2.702   Duties
   
2.703   Compensation
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from S.C. Code § 5-7-230, as amended.
§ 2.701  APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE; RESIDENCE.
   a.   The Council may appoint a Municipal Attorney who shall be a lawyer of
good and reputable standing, a member of the South Carolina Bar Association and
admitted to practice law in this state.
   b.   He or she shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
   c.   He or she need not be a resident of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 2.701)
Editor’s note:
   State law requires the appointment of the attorney to be made by Council.
§ 2.702  DUTIES.
   a.   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Attorney, whenever called upon by
Council, or the necessity arises, to give advice and direction to the Council
or any member thereof, or the Clerk/Treasurer or such other officer or
employees as authorized by Council. This shall include, but not limited to, any
and all legal questions that may arise in the course of the administration of
the town government, or in the discharge of the duties of their respective
offices. Whenever required to do so by the Council, he or she shall give his or
her legal opinion in writing.
   b.   When appropriate, he or she shall draw or supervise the drawing or
drafting of or approve, when appropriate, all ordinances and other written
instruments relative to the business of the municipality.
   c.   He or she shall attend the meetings of Council when requested and shall
perform such other duties as assigned by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.702)
§ 2.703  COMPENSATION.
   The Municipal Attorney shall be compensated as determined by Council and
included in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 2.703)
ARTICLE VIII: PERSONNEL
Section
   
2.801   Compensation
   
2.802   Resisting or interfering with officials or employees
   
2.803   Duty to replace damaged property
   
2.804   Duty to return property upon termination of employment
   
2.805   Holidays
   
2.806   Military
   
2.807   Jury duty
   
2.808   At-will employment
   
2.809   Confidentiality
   
2.810   Employee handbook adopted
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from S.C. Code § 5-9-30 and has been added to assist in
personnel matters.
§ 2.801  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation, as appropriate, of all appointed officers and employees of
the town shall be fixed by the Council and incorporated in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 2.801)
§ 2.802  RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH OFFICIALS OR EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or interfere with any
municipal officer or employee in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 2.802)
§ 2.803  DUTY TO REPLACE DAMAGED PROPERTY.
   Members or employees of the various departments of the town, losing or
damaging any of the property and/or equipment furnished by the town, shall be
required to replace the same at their own expense.
(Prior Code, § 2.803)
§ 2.804  DUTY TO RETURN PROPERTY UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Employees of the town shall be required to return to the town any and all
property which is owned by the town, which may be in their possession at the
time of dismissal, suspension or resignation from employment with the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.804)
§ 2.805  HOLIDAYS.
   a.   All town employees, both salaried and hourly, after six months’
continuous service, shall receive the following holidays with pay, provided
they have worked the work day preceding and the work day following the holiday:
      1.   New Year’s Day;
      2.   Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
      3.   President’s Day;
      4.   Memorial Day;
      5.   Independence Day and day after;
      6.   First Tuesday in November (presidential election year);
      7.   Labor Day;
      8.   Veteran’s Day;
      9.   Day before Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving Day and day after
Thanksgiving; and
      10.   Day before Christmas Eve, Christmas Eve Day, Christmas Day and New
Year’s Eve Day.
   b.   Holidays which fall on Saturday or Sunday shall be observed the
following Monday.
(Prior Code, § 2.805)
§ 2.806  MILITARY.
   Military leave shall comply in all respects with S.C. Code § 8-7-90.
(Prior Code, § 2.806)
§ 2.807  JURY DUTY.
   a.   Any employee serving as a juror in a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be entitled to his or her normal rate of pay from the town during jury
duty. Payment for additional days of jury duty shall be subject to approval of
the Mayor and Council.
   b.   Employees not seated as a juror shall return to work upon dismissal by
the Court.
(Prior Code, § 2.807)
Cross-reference:
   Jury Commission, see §
7.201 of this code.
Editor’s note:
   It is recognized that jury duty may last longer than anticipated; however,
this provision allows the Mayor and Council to monitor the provision for pay
purposes.
§ 2.808  AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that, notwithstanding any
policies, memoranda or handbooks promulgated by the town or any employment
practices of the town:
   a.   All employees of the town shall be employed at-will and may resign or
be discharged from employment at any time;
   b.   Only the Mayor and Council shall have the right to enter into contracts
for other than at-will employment on the town’s behalf; and
   c.   Any contract for other than at-will employment must:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Be executed by the Mayor and Council;
      3.   Specify the duration of the employment; and
      4.   Specifically state that the contract is being created pursuant to
the authority of the Mayor and Council under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.808)
Editor’s note:
   In its May 2003 edition of UPTOWN, the reasons for this section are
explained.
§ 2.809  CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except as authorized by law or as allowed in the exercise of official
duties, it shall be unlawful for town officers or employees to disclose to
third persons confidential information concerning the property, government or
affairs of the town. It shall be unlawful for a town officer or employee to use
such information to advance the financial or other private interests of
themselves or others.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 2.810  EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED.
   The revised employee handbook, copies of which are on file in the office of
the Town Clerk/ Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 6-4-2018)
ARTICLE IX: TRAVEL POLICY
Section
   
2.901   Generally
   
2.902   Definitions
   
2.903   Rules
   
2.904   Meals
   
2.905   Travel process
   
2.906   Per diem policy and tax reporting
   
2.907   Means of travel
   
2.908   Miscellaneous services
   
2.909   Local travel
   
2.910   Registration
   
2.911   Miscellaneous
§ 2.901  GENERALLY.
   This policy instruction gives detailed information of the town’s travel
policy, including the types of expenses and amounts allowable for
reimbursement, substantiation required and procedures to be followed for the
authorization and payment of travel expenses. This policy applies to all
employees of the town.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.902  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUAL COST. Those costs which are supported by original documents such as
cash register receipts, credit card receipts, hotel statement charges and other
sufficient evidence of actual purchase provided by the party requesting
reimbursement.
   PER DIEM. A monitory allowance given to an employee of the town to cover the
cost of meals while traveling on a valid business purpose on behalf of the
town. As used within this policy, PER DIEM and MEAL PER DIEM are equivalent
terms. The PER DIEM rate is a fixed daily rate.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.903  RULES.
   a.   All business travel, other than Mayor and/or Town Clerk, must receive
prior approval of the Mayor and Town Clerk. All business travel for the Mayor
must receive prior approval of the Mayor Pro Tem and Town Clerk. All business
travel for the Town Clerk must receive prior approval of the Mayor and Mayor
Pro Tem.
   b.   All travel should be planned in advance to take advantage of super-
saver rates and hotel discounts if offered. Each department has a designated
person to coordinate airline reservations with a travel agency. Department
designees may make reservations, but should not purchase tickets prior to
approval of the appropriate personnel listed in division a. above. Requisitions
should be submitted in sufficient time to allow for approval and processing.
Mode of travel will be that determined to be the safest and most cost-
effective. Generally, travel that would take over four hours by automobile
(approximately 250 miles) should be made by air. If a town vehicle is
available, it should be used for shorter trips and/or those that will require a
vehicle for business travel at the destination. If a personally owned vehicle
is used for business travel, mileage will be reimbursed at the rate of $0.54
per mile and computed using the mileage as listed on a widely recognized
mileage chart or documented odometer readings for the business portion of
travel. Allowable mode of travel also includes a rental vehicle when it is
demonstrated that this choice is either the most economical, the only available
method, or provides some mutual benefit to both the town and the employee.
   c.   Under some circumstances where an employee travels during normal work
hours (8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) Monday through Friday or during those hours on
Saturday or Sunday or, travel time shall be considered hours worked.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.904  MEALS.
   a.   Actual costs of meals while on town business, including tips, are
eligible for reimbursement up to per diem rate. The following are guidelines
for meal reimbursement. It is expected that meals included in a registration
fee will be used by the employee. Constraints such as time, dietary
restrictions and/or other circumstances may preclude use of such prepaid meals.
Therefore, in lieu of adding a 15% gratuity, the town will provide employees a
per diem for all meals during such approved travel time.
      1.   Meal per diem policy. A per diem allowance may be given in lieu of
actual costs (substantiated by receipts) to a traveler to cover meal expenses
in connection with the performance of services for the town. The town will
reimburse the lesser of actual or per diem.
      2.   Meal per diem procedure. Travelers who use per diem allowances are
required to substantiate each meal expense. They must demonstrate that the trip
occurred with a receipt such as an airline ticket or hotel receipts that
indicate the dates of travel. For audit purposes, this documentation must be
attached to the expense log and report copy and retained by the Finance
Department for a period of three years.
   b.   The town pays a per diem rate for meal expenses as follows: per diem
rate is provided for each meal unless the meal is provided. This amount is
adjusted for partial day travel. Receipts required.
   c.   For partial day travel, the town pays a portion of per diem for meals
eaten while on travel status at the rate of: $8 breakfast, $12 lunch and $20
dinner.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.905  TRAVEL PROCESS.
   a.   Travel Authorization form.
      1.   Complete the travel authorization form and attach back up.
      2.   Obtain signatures:
         (a)   Employee;
         (b)   Town Clerk;
         (c)   Mayor; and
         (d)   Mayor Pro Tem if travel is for Mayor or Town Clerk.
      3.   Form must be turned in to accounting five days prior to travel if an
advance is requested.
   b.   Requisition procedures payable to employee.
      1.   Accounting needs the travel authorization form five days prior to
departure date.
      2.   Travel advance check will be available three days before departure
date.
      3.   Meal expense checks will be issued no earlier than three days prior
to departure date.
         (a)   Payments to vendors for training related to a specific job
should use account appropriated.
         (b)   Payments to vendors for seminars, conferences and the like
should use account appropriated.
   c.   Reimbursement/advance process.
      1.   Per diem meal allowance payments will be processed. Expense report
form after the trip.
      2.   Actual meal allowance payments will be processed on a properly
completed expense report form after the trip with substantiation by individual
receipts.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.906  PER DIEM POLICY AND TAX REPORTING.
   a.   Will have the advanced amounts reported on their W-2 at the end of the
year.
   b.   Independent contractors: any per diem payments made directly to
independent contractor, members of visiting committees and interview candidates
are reportable income and will be reported on Form 1099M. Those individuals who
are both based in and perform their services in the town area are not eligible
to receive per diem while performing such services within the town area.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.907  MEANS OF TRAVEL.
   Due to the long distance and high costs involved in out-of-state travel, it
is town policy to pay for the least costly, appropriate mode of transportation.
It is town policy never to reimburse a traveler more than the reasonable cost
of travel. The amount cannot exceed the actual out-of-pocket expense incurred
by the traveling employee.
   a.   Air travel.
      1.   Employees should make every effort to plan travel in advance to take
advantage of discounts, if offered. Flight arrangements should be coordinated
with town. If an employee obtains an airline ticket on their own, they will be
reimbursed upon return from travel status. Receipts and documentation will be
needed for all reimbursement. If the town’s credit card is used, the same
documentation should be retained and signed off on by the Mayor and Town Clerk
and attached to the credit card statement.
      2.   If changes in travel plans occur which are the result of town
business requirements (e.g., delays in departure, cancellation, extended stays
or revised itinerary), any associated costs will be paid by the town. All
increases in cost of travel due to changes for personal convenience will be
borne by the employee.
   b.   Car travel. If the traveler chooses to drive instead of fly (must be
approved by appropriate department head), reimbursement will be made at the
current mileage reimbursement rate of $0.54.
   c.   Rental cars. Should the need for a rental car arise, it must be
specifically approved by the Mayor and Town Clerk (or Mayor Pro Tem as
previously denoted). The size of the actual cost of renting provided that the
proper documentation is attached to the expense reimbursement form. The rental
agreement and receipt received at turn in of the vehicle will be required
documentation for reimbursement. Employees must obtain both liability and
collision/comprehensive coverage provided by the rental agency.
   d.   Town vehicle. Officers and employees may use an assigned vehicle or
available pool cars while on town business. Employees using a town owned
vehicle for out-of-town travel shall secure a town gas credit card for purchase
of gasoline. Personnel should use the town gas credit card, when feasible, in
lieu of charging for travel.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.908  MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES.
   a.   Laundry. Actual costs of laundry are allowable expenses when employees
are required to be away from the town for more than six days at one time or the
conditions under which they are required to work while away from the town
create a more than normal need for such services.
   b.   Telephone, internet and fax. Charges for telephone and fax are eligible
for reimbursement if town business requires such communication. Employees are
allowed one personal phone call per day not to exceed ten minutes while they
are traveling overnight for business purposes. Long distance calls submitted by
the employee for reimbursement must be itemized on expense reports, showing the
location and/or person called and the purpose of the call. Hotel access charges
for all telephone calls are reimbursable.
   c.   Valet service, parking, tolls, maid service and bell hop. Reasonable
gratuities paid for valet service, tolls parking, maid service, bell hop or
baggage handling or necessary physical assistance are considered payments for
service and are reimbursable expenses. Gratuities for these services are to be
reflected in the “other expense” column of the voucher. Receipts must support
any tolls and parking charges. Other gratuities are not required to be
supported by receipts, but should be reasonable and customary.
   d.   Hotel/lodging.
      1.   Actual costs of hotel or motel accommodations will be reimbursed, if
a family member or guest accompanies the employee, the employee shall submit
and be reimbursed only the amount of a single rate accommodation. Such single
accommodation rate must be noted on the hotel/motel bill submitted. Employees
should use mid-priced hotels unless they are attending a meeting/conference
that is being held at a hotel, in which case, lodging will be authorized at
that location. A check should be requested in advance to pay for the hotel.
      2.   When making a hotel reservation in advance, the employee or person
making the arrangements should contact the Town Clerk regarding the use of the
town’s credit card.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.909  LOCAL TRAVEL.
   a.   It is expected that employees will exercise appropriate judgment and
discretion in requesting reimbursement for expenses incurred in the local area.
Mileage reimbursement within the area will be allowed if the following criteria
are met.
      1.   Use of personal vehicle must be significant and required by the job.
No casual or insignificant use will be reimbursed.
      2.   Motor pool vehicles will be used, if available, instead of personal
vehicles.
      3.   Funds must be available in the department budget for the purpose of
paying such reimbursements.
   b.   Local meal expense is eligible for reimbursement if incurred in the
necessary discharge of the employee’s official duties. Employees are expected
to limit themselves to what is appropriate for the occasion and location.
Reimbursement will be made only in those instances when a clearly official
function is performed. Casual or routine meals with individuals, consultants,
employees of the town or other local agencies, where the purpose is primarily
social, are not eligible for reimbursement.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.910  REGISTRATION.
   Actual cost of registration will be paid for any employee or authorized non-
employee at a meeting, conference or convention. Registration should be
submitted for payment in advance of the travel, rather than submitted as an
expense on the travel expense voucher. If not possible to be submitted in
advance, registration costs may be resubmitted for reimbursement with
substantiated receipts. Registration costs should not be submitted as part of a
request for travel advance.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 2.911  MISCELLANEOUS.
   a.   Expenses for alcoholic beverages will not be reimbursed and no alcohol
may be consumed during working hours. Travelers must always bear in mind that
they represent the town. They must conduct themselves in a manner that will
reflect favorably upon the town and frequent only dignified establishments.
   b.   A travel authorization form must be filled out prior to the travel to
document estimated costs. The request must be submitted to finance at least
five days prior to travel. Advance funds should be equal to or less than the
estimated cost.
   c.   A travel expense form should be completed within five business days
upon return to the regular work station. A travel expense form must be
completed even if there is a zero balance.
   d.   If a balance if owed to the employee, a requisition must be completed
and submitted through the workflow. A requisition number must be written on the
travel expense form and sent to the Town Clerk.
   e.   If the employee owes the town, payment should be made by the next
payday. The money should be taken to the Town Clerk. Attach the receipt to the
travel expense form and return with payment.
   f.   Employees are requested to share hotel rooms where practical.
   g.   The town will not pay for alcohol, entertainment or any other expense
not necessary for conducting town business.
   h.   Check requested on short notice will be issued only in an emergency
type situation. It will not be considered an emergency in an employee has had
ample time to complete the paperwork.
   i.   The town will reimburse parking fees for a private vehicle at the
airport while the employee is on a business trip.
(Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-2-2018); Fowl
CHAPTER 3: ANIMALS; FOWL
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   BIRD SANCTUARY
      
III.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
3.101   Definitions
   
3.102   Identification tag or plate required
   
3.103   Impoundment of animals running at large without identification collars
or rabies tags
   
3.104   Investigation and enforcement as to nondangerous strays
   
3.105   Search warrant to enter premises; removal of animals
   
3.106   Cruelty and abandonment
   
3.107   Removal of identification and rabies tags prohibited
   
3.108   Animals in heat
   
3.109   Unlawful acts
   
3.110   Restraint
   
3.111   Nuisance
   
3.112   Abandoned, unclaimed animals
   
3.113   Diseased animals
   
3.114   Reporting a violation
   
3.115   Enforcement
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from § 1-1 of the 1982 Cottageville Town Code, with
additions by the editors and generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 3.101  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the Council for the purpose of
impounding, caring for or destroying animals held under the terms of this
chapter.
   ANIMAL/LITTER CONTROL OFFICER. The person appointed to serve at the will of
the Mayor, with the duties and powers described in this chapter.
   ANIMALS. All mammals of the order carnivore, four months or more of age.
This includes dogs, cats and other related carnivorous animals.
   DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
      1.   For purposes of this chapter, if the following conditions exist in
any situation, an animal shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL within the
meaning of this chapter when:
         (a)   Running at large off the premises of its owner;
         (b)   Its owner is not personally present to exercise control or
management, or if present is not able to or fails to exercise control or
management;
         (c)   It exhibits wildness, anger, fierceness or hostility by snarling
and the baring of teeth, or the bristling of hair; and
         (d)   It has snapped at, or charged at or darted at in a threatening
manner, or chased or attacked, or threatened to attack, any person, cattle,
horse, hog, mule, goat, sheep or domestic fowl.
      2.   If all of the foregoing conditions exist in the same situation, the
animal shall be considered a DANGEROUS ANIMAL within the terms of this chapter
even if the animal has identification of ownership and a rabies tag.
   DISEASED ANIMAL. Any animal which is afflicted with a disease which may
adversely affect the health of humans or another animal.
   EUTHANIZE. To put to death in a humane manner.
   FARMER. The owner or lessee of land used to produce an agricultural crop or
to manage livestock for marketing.
   IMPOUNDED or IMPOUNDMENT. The act of receiving into custody by enforcement
officers of any animal for confinement within the animal shelter.
   NUISANCE ANIMAL. An animal that does excessive, continuous or untimely
barking; which molests passerby; habitually attacks other domesticated animals;
trespasses upon school grounds or trespasses upon private property in such a
manner as to damage the property.
   OWNER. Any person who:
      1.   Has a right of property in an animal;
      2.   Keeps an animal or has it in care or acts as its custodian; or
      3.   Permits a pet or animal to remain on or about the premises owned or
leased by that person.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Being off of property in possession of the owner of the
animal and not under the physical control of the owner by means of a leash or
other restraining device.
   STRAY ANIMAL. An animal running at large which has no known owner, and no
owner identification tag as required by this chapter.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. An animal which is accompanied by its owner and under the
physical control of the owner by means of a leash or other restraining device,
or under the active control of the owner or trainer while hunting or being
trained and while on property of the owner or with the property owner’s
permission.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      1.   Any animal:
         (a)   Evidencing an abnormal inclination to attack persons or animals
without provocation; or
         (b)   Having tendency to do any act that might endanger safety of
persons and property of others in a given situation.
      2.   The owner of an animal is deemed to have knowledge of its vicious or
dangerous disposition. An animal is not entitled to one bite.
(S.C. Code § 47-3-10)  (Prior Code, § 3.101)
§ 3.102  IDENTIFICATION TAG OR PLATE REQUIRED.
   Every owner is required to ensure that an identification tag or plate is
securely fastened to the animal’s collar or harness. The tag or plate will
clearly indicate the name and address of the owner and must be worn by the
animal at all times. An animal running at large without such identification
shall be deemed abandoned by its owner, and a potential public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3.102)
§ 3.103  IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE WITHOUT IDENTIFICATION COLLARS
OR RABIES TAGS.
   Any animal running at large which has no identification collar or rabies tag
as required by this chapter shall be deemed as abandoned property, as to which
the town may assert a paramount interest as the health, safety and protection
of the public. The town may take title to such animals, and may impound such
animals and give owners a chance to redeem or destroy or authorize destruction
of such animals according to this chapter or state law.
(Prior Code, § 3.103)
§ 3.104  INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT AS TO NONDANGEROUS STRAYS.
   Any person who may be bothered or disturbed by the repeated presence on
their property of any nuisance animal belonging to another and not a dangerous
animal as defined under S.C. Code §§ 47-3-710 et seq., may report the
circumstances and information concerning the complaint. The town shall make
such investigation, as it may deem sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 3.104)
§ 3.105  SEARCH WARRANT TO ENTER PREMISES; REMOVAL OF ANIMALS.
   The town may obtain a search warrant to enter any premises upon which there
is probably cause to believe that violation of this chapter exists and may then
demand to examine such animal and take possession of the animal, when, in the
town’s opinion, it requires removal from the premises and a violation of this
chapter has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 3.105)
§ 3.106  CRUELTY AND ABANDONMENT.
   The town shall investigate all complaints of cruelty to or abandonment of
animals pursuant to the laws of the state and shall take lawful action to stop
such cruelty or abandonment.
(Prior Code, § 3.106)
§ 3.107  REMOVAL OF IDENTIFICATION AND RABIES TAGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful in the town for any person to remove the identification
or the current rabies tag from an animal as provided for in this chapter. The
assertion that someone other the owner removed such tags shall not be a defense
to any action or procedure under this chapter, the owner being deemed hereunder
absolutely responsible for attachment of the tags.
(Prior Code, § 3.107)
§ 3.108  ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   The owner of a female animal in heat shall keep the animal in a building or
enclosure or in a kennel so as not to create a nuisance by attracting other
animals.
(Prior Code, § 3.108)
§ 3.109  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other keeper of an animal to:
   a.   Allow his or her animal to run at large off of property owner, rented
or controlled by him or her, with the exception of hunting dogs in pursuit of
game which originated on property owned, rented or controlled by him or her;
   b.   Keep a vicious or unruly animal unless under restraint of fence, chain
or other means so that such animal cannot reach persons not on land owned,
leased or controlled by him or her;
   c.   Release or take out of impoundment without proper authority any animal
or resist any animal control personnel engaging in the capture and impoundment
of an animal; or
   d.   Release a hunting dog in such a manner so as such dog is more likely to
hunt on property not owned, rented or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3.109)
§ 3.110  RESTRAINT.
   The owner shall keep his or her animal under reasonable restraint at all
times. It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper of any dog, licensed or
unlicensed, to permit the dog to leave or to be beyond the premises upon which
the dog is usually kept, except when accompanied and controlled by the owner or
keeper and secured by means of a collar or harness, with a chain or leash
attached thereto and held by the owner, keeper or person in charge of the
animal. No animal shall be permitted to be on school grounds or in shopping
areas or similar public places unless on a leash or “at heel” at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3.110)
§ 3.111  NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her animal to prevent such animal from becoming a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3.111)
§ 3.112  ABANDONED, UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal in the town to abandon such
animal. If any animal is unclaimed as provide for in this section, it may be
disposed of pursuant to lawful regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3.112)
§ 3.113  DISEASED ANIMALS.
   No animals afflicted with a contagious disease shall be allowed to run at
large or to be exposed in any public place whereby the health of any person or
animals may/might be affected, nor shall such an animal be shipped or removed
from the premises of the owner except under the supervision of the lawful
authority.
(Prior Code, § 3.113)
§ 3.114  REPORTING A VIOLATION.
   Any citizens reporting a violation of this chapter must identify himself or
herself and sign a nuisance violation report if the violation is a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3.114)
§ 3.115  ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of all sections of this chapter regarding having any animal on a
leash or “at heel” shall be enforced on a complaint basis only.
(Prior Code, § 3.115)
ARTICLE II: BIRD SANCTUARY
Section
   
3.201   Established
   
3.202   Killing, injuring or molesting birds
   
3.203   Birds constituting a nuisance; action
   
3.204   Farm lands, swamps excluded
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from general authority given to municipalities by S.C.
Code § 5-7-30, question 20 of the town questionnaire and generally accepted
municipal practices.
§ 3.201  ESTABLISHED.
   The entire area within the corporate limits of the town is hereby
established and declared to be a wild bird sanctuary.
(Prior Code, § 3.201)
§ 3.202  KILLING, INJURING OR MOLESTING BIRDS.
   The town is hereby declared to be a bird sanctuary, and it shall be unlawful
to shoot, attempt to shoot, trap or molest in any manner any bird or to remove
the eggs from or otherwise molest or disturb any bird’s nest in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3.202)
§ 3.203  BIRDS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE; ACTION.
   a.   If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such
numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a menace to health or
property, in the opinion of the County Board of Health, the Council shall meet
with said health authorities to resolve the problem.
   b.   If no satisfactory course of action is found to abate such nuisance at
such meeting, said birds may be destroyed in such numbers and manner as is
deemed advisable by said health authorities under the supervision of such
person or persons as may be approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.203)
§ 3.204  FARM LANDS, SWAMPS EXCLUDED.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to farms or swamp lands
within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 3.204)
ARTICLE III: PENALTIES
Section
   
3.301   Penalty; exceptions
§ 3.301  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 3.301)
CHAPTER 4: BEAUTIFICATION
   Article
      
I.   COMMISSION
      
II.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: COMMISSION
Section
   
4.101   Commission created
   
4.102   Membership; compensation; terms
   
4.103   Function and authority
   
4.104   Meetings
   
4.105   Reports
   
4.106   Interference with Commission
   
4.107   Utility exemption
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from the general authority of municipalities as
provided by S.C. Code § 5-7-30, question 21 of the town questionnaire and
generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 4.101  COMMISSION CREATED.
There is hereby created a “Beautification Commission”.
(Prior Code, § 4.101)
§ 4.102  MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION; TERMS.
   a.   The Commission shall consist of three members who shall be appointed by
the Town Council and who shall serve without compensation.
   b.   Members shall serve such staggered terms as may be determined by
Council. A member shall continue to serve until his or her successor is
appointed and qualifies.
   c.   Any member who resigns shall be replaced by appointment by the Mayor
for the unexpired term of that member.
   d.   Any member having three unexcused consecutive absences shall be
automatically removed from the Commission, and the unexpired term filled by
appointment by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.102)
§ 4.103  FUNCTION AND AUTHORITY.
   a.   The function of the Commission shall be to promote compliance with all
environmental projects of the town; to determine and promote ways for making
its highway approaches thereto and the surrounding areas more attractive and
aesthetically pleasing to the eye; to encourage specifically the preservation,
protection and replacement of trees, flowers and shrubs within the town and
prevent their unnecessary destruction pursuant to the general police powers of
the town.
   b.   The Commission shall not enter into any contracts involving financial
liability or incur any indebtedness except upon written authority from Council;
provided, however, the Commission may enter into agreements for the purpose of
effecting its objectives, when no liability of the town is involved.
(Prior Code, § 4.103)
§ 4.104  MEETINGS.
   a.   The Commission shall elect from its group a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, Secretary and Chairperson of Publicity. The Commission shall meet
on call by the Chairperson. In his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson may
call such meetings.
   b.   The Chairperson may appoint such temporary committees from within or
outside the membership of the Commission, as may be deemed necessary to effect
the functions of the Commission.
   c.   Minutes of meetings shall be kept in written form as a permanent
record, and copies shall be forwarded to Council.
   d.   Robert’s Rules of Order shall be followed as a procedure guide for all
meetings. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the
Commission, and a quorum shall be present to conduct business.
(Prior Code, § 4.104)
§ 4.105  REPORTS.
The Commission shall report at least annually to Council as to the activities,
programs and needs of the Commission and shall make such other reports as may
be requested.
(Prior Code, § 4.105)
§ 4.106  INTERFERENCE WITH COMMISSION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Commission, or any of
its agents, while engaging in planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removing of trees on public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 4.106)
§ 4.107  UTILITY EXEMPTION.
Public and private utility companies shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter, provided they file with the Clerk/Treasurer, after notice
thereby, the policies and procedures followed in their flower, shrub and tree
trimming and removal practices and provided a mutually acceptable standard is
agreed upon by the utility and Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.107)
ARTICLE II: PENALTIES
Section
   
4.201   Penalty; exceptions
§ 4.201  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 4.201); Planning Commission
CHAPTER 5: BUILDINGS; PLANNING COMMISSION
   Article
      
I.   ADMINISTRATION
      
II.   CODES
      
III.   BUILDING NUMBERS
      
IV.   FAIR HOUSING
      
V.   PLANNING COMMISSION; ZONING
      
VI.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
5.101   Homeowner’s provisions
   
5.102   Ordinary repairs, maintenance authorized
   
5.103   Liability not assumed by town
   
5.104   Unfit dwellings
   
5.105   Utility connections
   
5.106   Smoke-free municipal building
   
5.107   Appeals
§ 5.101  HOMEOWNER’S PROVISIONS.
   a.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any homeowner from constructing
or maintaining buildings, or installing electrical wiring, gas piping or
appliances or plumbing within his or her own property boundaries, provided such
work is done by himself or herself and is used exclusively by him or her or his
or her family.
   b.   Such privilege does not convey the right to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, neither is it to be construed as exempting any such
property owner from having work inspected, if required.
(Prior Code, § 5.101)
§ 5.102  ORDINARY REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE AUTHORIZED.
   Ordinary minor repairs and general maintenance may be made, provided such
repairs do not violate any of the provisions of this code, county ordinances or
state statutes. Examples of minor repairs and general maintenance shall
include, but not be limited to, painting, minor carpentry and the like.
(Prior Code, § 5.102)
§ 5.103  LIABILITY NOT ASSUMED BY TOWN.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
building, electrical, gas or plumbing equipment from damages to anyone injured
thereby, nor shall the town be held as assuming any such liability by reason of
inspection authorized herein, or certificate issued.
(Prior Code, § 5.103)
§ 5.104  UNFIT DWELLINGS.
   The Town Council may authorize the repairing, closing or demolition of unfit
dwellings.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-20)  (Prior Code, § 5.104)
§ 5.105  UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   No supplier of water, gas or electric service shall initiate or reinitiate
service to any building, unless the owner thereof has been authorized by the
appropriate official of the county.
(Prior Code, § 5.105)
§ 5.106  SMOKE-FREE MUNICIPAL BUILDING.
   The Town Hall is hereby declared to be a smoke-free environment.
(Prior Code, § 5.106)
§ 5.107  APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions of authorized officials shall be to the Mayor and
Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.107)
ARTICLE II: CODES
Section
   
5.201   Codes adopted
   
5.202   Personnel
   
5.203   Fees
   
5.204   Notification of discontinuance required
   
5.205   Work without a permit
   
5.206   Code compliance required
§ 5.201  CODES ADOPTED.
   The following codes are hereby adopted to meet state and ISO requirements:
   a.   International Building Code, 2003 Edition, as amended by Ord. 2006-10,
is hereby adopted and available for inspection in the office of the Town
Clerk’s office;
   b.   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, 2000
Edition, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., effective as of
July 1, 2001;
   c.   International Plumbing Code, 2000 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., effective as of July 1, 2001;
   d.   International Mechanical Code, 2000 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., effective as of July 1, 2001;
   e.   International Fuel Gas Code, 2000 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., effective as of July 1, 2001;
   f.   International Fire Code, 2000 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., effective as of July 1, 2001; and
   g.   National Electrical Code, 1999 Edition.
(Prior Code, § 5.201)  (Ord. 2006-10, passed - -)
§ 5.202  PERSONNEL.
   a.   The referenced ISO requirements and general state statutes shall apply
to personnel-related matters involving building officials, deputies, inspectors
and assistants specified therein.
   b.   The Town Clerk is hereby authorized to be responsible for enforcement
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.202)
§ 5.203  FEES.
   a.   Generally. No permit shall be issued until the required fees are paid,
nor shall an amendment to a permit be approved until the additional fee, if
any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the building or structure is
paid.
   b.   Schedule of fees. The Council hereby established the following schedule
of fees for permits and appeals:
      1.   Building permit.
         (a)   Residential. (General contractor’s cost, including plumbing,
mechanical equipment and other systems.)
 
Cost                                               Fee
$999 and under                                     No permit required
$1,000 – $4,000, minimum fee                     $12
$4,001 and above, per thousand or fraction thereof $3
Applied to a standard per square foot value of $41.50
 
         (b)   Commercial.
 
Cost                                                Fee
$999 and under                                      No permit required
$1,000 – $4,000, minimum fee                      $16
$4,001 – $150,000 per thousand or fraction thereof$4
$150,001 and above per thousand or fraction thereof $3
Applied to the actual contract price
 
         (c)   Garages, porches, stoops and basements.
 
Cost                                               Fee
$999 and under                                     No permit required
$1,000 – $4,000, minimum fee                     $12
$4,001 and above, per thousand or fraction thereof $3
Applied to a standard per square foot value of $15
 
         (d)   Carports and decks.
 
Cost                                               Fee
$999 and under                                     No permit required
$1,000 – $4,000, minimum fee                     $12
$4,001 and above, per thousand or fraction thereof $3
Applied to a standard per square foot value of $10
 
         (e)   Re-inspection fee. (An inspector has been called to inspect a
project that is not ready and/or the project has not met the code’s minimum
requirements.)
 
Inspection                                                       Fee
Builders will be given one additional inspection free of charge.
A flat rate will be charged for every inspection thereafter      $15
 
         (f)   Inspection for which no fee is specifically indicated. (As a
service agency, inspections of older structures, due to a concern of the
property owner wanted an objective opinion, could be performed.)
 
Inspection               Fee
Flat rate per inspection $25
 
      2.   Electrical permit.
 
Cost                                                                  Fee
$1 – $1,000, minimum                                                $10
$1,001 and above: $10 plus each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof $3
 
      3.   Gas, heating and air conditioning.
 
Cost                                                                  Fee
$1 – $1,000, minimum                                                $10
$1,001 and above: $10 plus each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof $3
 
      4.   Plumbing permit.
 
Cost                                                                  Fee
$1 – $1,000, minimum                                                $10
$1,001 and above: $10 plus each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof $3
 
      5.   Related fees.
         (a)   Permit transfer fee. A permit transfer fee of $5 shall be paid
for each transfer of a permit.
         (b)   Permit refund fee. A permit refund fee of $10 shall be paid for
each refund of a permit fee.
         (c)   Appeals shall be made to the Mayor and Council. A fee of $30
shall be paid for each appeal.
         (d)   Moving of building or structures. A fee of $50 shall be paid for
moving of buildings or structures.
         (e)   Mobile homes. The following fees shall be charged for mobile
homes:
            (i)   A fee of $150 for a single-wide; and
            (ii)   A fee of $250 for a double-wide.
         (f)   Demolition fee. A demolition fee of $50 shall be charged for any
building or structures.
(Prior Code, § 5.203)
§ 5.204  NOTIFICATION OF DISCONTINUANCE REQUIRED.
   a.   Should any person to whom a permit was issued discontinue the
construction or installation for any reason, he or she shall notify the Town
Clerk and state the reason. If the construction installation was partially
completed, the person for whom the permit was issued, upon quitting the
installation, shall notify the Town Clerk and request an inspection. Acceptance
of, or violations against the work shall be recorded on the permit record. No
refund of the permit fee shall be granted to the person to whom the permit was
issued.
   b.   If the holder of a permit quits the installation and fails to notify
the Town Clerk, the owner or his or her agent may notify the Town Clerk and
request inspection. Upon inspection, the holder of the permit shall be sent a
notice of any violation. The owner may then secure another qualified person to
proceed with the work.
   c.   If no work was done, the holder of the permit shall be entitled to a
refund on his or her permit; provided, however, that a minimum charge shall be
made by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5.204)
§ 5.205  WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Should work for which a permit is required be started without obtaining said
permit, the fees herein shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee
shall not relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of
this code in the execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed
herein.
(Prior Code, § 5.205)
§ 5.206  CODE COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct any structure or a part of a structure
that is not in compliance with this article and that is not in conformity with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.206)
ARTICLE III: BUILDING NUMBERS
Section
   
5.301   Numbers required for buildings and property
§ 5.301  NUMBERS REQUIRED FOR BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY.
   a.   When approved by Council, all buildings and properties located within
the corporate limits shall display a number, as provided herein.
   b.   The owner, occupant or agent of each building and property shall place
or cause to be placed upon each building and property owned or occupied by him
or her the number assigned, as follows.
      1.   Numbers shall be durable and clearly visible.
      2.   Numbers shall be placed conspicuously immediately above or to the
side of the door facing the street so that the number can be plainly seen from
the street. If the building is more than 50 feet from the street, the number
shall be placed near the walk, post, tree or other appropriate place so that
the number can be plainly seen from the street.
      3.   If the building has a street-side mailbox, the number may be painted
upon or affixed to the mailbox. It shall, as closely as possible, approximate
the height of three inches, as space permits, provided it can be plainly seen
from the street.
      4.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, occupant or agent of
each existing or newly acquired or constructed building and property who does
not know the number assigned to his or her building or property to obtain the
number.
(Prior Code, § 5.301)
ARTICLE IV: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
5.401   Month designated
   
5.402   Program; minimum elements
§ 5.401  MONTH DESIGNATED.
   a.   The month of April is hereby designated as Fair Housing Month in the
town.
   b.   It is the intent of Town Council that all citizens of the town be
afforded the opportunity to obtain a decent, safe and sound living environment,
regardless of race, religion, color, creed and/or national origin; that every
citizen be afforded the opportunity to select a home of his or her choice.
(Prior Code, § 5.401)  (Res. 2012-2, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 5.402  PROGRAM; MINIMUM ELEMENTS.
   a.   The Town Clerk shall publicize this section and, through said
publicity, shall encourage owners of real estate, developers and builders to
become aware of their respective responsibilities and rights under the federal
Fair Housing Act, Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 and being 42
U.S.C. §§ 1404a et seq. and the state Fair Housing Law, being S.C. Code Ch. 31-
21, and amendments and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
   b.   When approved by Council, said elements shall, at a minimum, include a
printing and publicizing of this policy and other applicable fair housing
information through local media and community contracts; and distribution of
posters, flyers and any other means that will bring to the attention of those
affected the knowledge of their respective responsibilities and rights
concerning equal opportunity in housing.
(Prior Code, § 5.402)
ARTICLE V: PLANNING COMMISSION; ZONING
Section
   
5.501   Designation of County Planning Commission
   
5.502   Zoning amendments
   
5.503   Representation on Planning Commission
§ 5.501  DESIGNATION OF COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-330(B), the County Planning Commission is
hereby designated as the official Planning Commission of the town, which shall
perform all planning functions in the area of jurisdiction of the town,
including revision of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 5.502  ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   a.   Proposed amendments to the town zoning ordinance shall be forwarded by
the Zoning Administrator to the County Planning Commission for review as
required by S.C. Code § 6-29-760(A).
   b.   The Planning Commission shall conduct its review and make its
recommendation to town Council within 30 days after receipt of a proposed
amendment. Town Council shall give notice and conduct the required public
hearing prior to acting on the amendment.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 5.503  REPRESENTATION ON PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Designation of the County Planning Commission as the Commission for the town
shall not alter the current appointment process established by the county code
of ordinances. The town shall have no appointment authority with respect to
Commission membership.
(Ord. 2011-7, passed 8-1-2011)
ARTICLE VI: PENALTIES
Section
   
5.601   Penalty; exceptions
§ 5.601  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 5.601)
CHAPTER 6: CEMETERIES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
6.101   Damaging shrubbery or other things in cemetery
   
6.102   Defacing monuments
   
6.103   State health authorities
Editor's note:
   This article derives from town questionnaire No. 30 and generally accepted
municipal practices.
§ 6.101  DAMAGING SHRUBBERY OR OTHER THINGS IN CEMETERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface any ornamental
shrubbery or any other thing put, placed or growing on any lot in any cemetery
in the town, by plucking flowers or otherwise tearing, cutting or removing any
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.101)
§ 6.102  DEFACING MONUMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface a tombstone or
monument in any cemetery in the town, by shooting the same or otherwise
chipping, breaking or in any way marring the surface thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.102)
§ 6.103  STATE HEALTH AUTHORITIES.
   The establishment and operation of cemeteries within the corporate limits of
the town shall be governed by and in accordance with the applicable laws of
this state and the rules and regulations promulgated by the county and state
health authorities.
(Prior Code, § 6.103)
ARTICLE II: PENALTIES
Section
   
6.201   Penalty; exceptions
§ 6.201  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 6.201)
CHAPTER 7: COURT
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   JURIES
      
III.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
7.101   Established
   
7.102   Municipal Judge
   
7.103   Advertisement
   
7.104   Salary and compensation
   
7.105   Eligibility
   
7.106   Vacancy; absence
   
7.107   Duties
   
7.108   Removal; hearing
   
7.109   Fines and assessments; use of funds
§ 7.101  ESTABLISHED.
   a.   A Municipal Court is hereby created and established in the town which
shall have power and jurisdiction to try and determine all cases arising under
the ordinances of said town and the Court shall have all powers, duties and
jurisdiction in criminal cases made under state law and conferred on
magistrates.
   b.   The Court shall have the power to punish for contempt of court up to
the limit imposed on Municipal Court.
   c.   The Court shall have no jurisdiction in civil matters and said Court
shall be vested with all judicial power in all such duties as granted by the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7.101)
§ 7.102  MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
The Municipal Judge shall be elected by Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.102)
§ 7.103  ADVERTISEMENT.
The Town Clerk shall have the responsibility to advertise for and accept
applications for Municipal Judge.
(Prior Code, § 7.103)
§ 7.104  SALARY AND COMPENSATION.
The salary and compensation of the Municipal Judge shall be fixed and approved
by Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.104)
§ 7.105  ELIGIBILITY.
The Council shall set the requirements for eligibility for Municipal Judge but
no Municipal Judge shall be required to be a resident of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7.105)
§ 7.106  VACANCY; ABSENCE.
   a.   In the event of a vacancy or absence in the office of the Municipal
Judge, the Council shall elect a successor to fill the unexpired term.
   b.   In case of the temporary absence, sickness or disability of the
Municipal Judge, the said Municipal Court shall be held by a temporary Judge
appointed by the Mayor upon the approval of Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.106)
§ 7.107  DUTIES.
The Judge shall attend at the Municipal Court for the hearing and determination
of all cases triable in said court.
(Prior Code, § 7.107)
§ 7.108  REMOVAL; HEARING.
   a.   The Municipal Judge shall be subject to removal for cause by a vote or
a majority of the Council; provided, however, that before such removal shall be
declared or shall take effect, the Council shall cause due written notice of
the charges against him or her to be served upon the Judge personally or by
mail.
   b.   The Judge shall be afforded an opportunity to appear before Council and
to be heard in his or her defense.
(Prior Code, § 7.108)
§ 7.109  FINES AND ASSESSMENTS; USE OF FUNDS.
   a.   All court fines and assessments shall be duly recorded and deposited in
the Town Court checking account by the Admin. Court Clerk or the Mayor. Each
month the fine revenue will be transferred to the town’s checking account by
the Town Clerk and the Mayor or, in the Mayor’s absence, by the Town Clerk and
Mayor Pro Tem.
   b.   All General Fund revenue shall be duly recorded and deposited in the
town’s checking account by the Town Clerk.
   c.   All disbursement from the town’s checking account shall be done by the
Mayor and Town Clerk or, in the Mayor’s absence, by the Mayor Pro Tem and the
Town Clerk or, in the Clerk’s absence, by Mayor and the Mayor Pro Tem.
   d.   Transfer from one budget item to another not in excess of $5,000 may be
authorized by the Mayor. Transfers in excess of $5,000 shall be approved by the
Town Council.
   e.   Mayor has authorization in the amount of up to $1,000 for non-budgeted
items. Over $1,000 needs authorization from Council. This can be by town’s
credit card or town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 6-24-2019)
ARTICLE II: JURIES
Section
   
7.201   Compensation
Editor’s note:
See also §
2.807 of this code.
§ 7.201  COMPENSATION.
   Jurors shall be paid $10 per person per session.
(Prior Code, § 7.202)
ARTICLE III: PENALTIES
Section
   
7.301   Penalty; exceptions
§ 7.301  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code, § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 7.301), Budget and Taxation
CHAPTER 8: FINANCE, BUDGET AND TAXATION
   Article
      
I.   BUDGET AND FINANCE
      
II.   MOBILE HOME TAXES
      
III.   PURCHASING
      
IV.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
V.   FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
      
VI.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: BUDGET AND FINANCE
Section
   
8.101   Fiscal year
   
8.102   Budget and accounting year
   
8.103   Annual budget; capital projects; summary; Clerk to notify county
   
8.104   Same; contingent expenses
   
8.105   Same; public hearing; public notice
   
8.106   Same; public inspection
   
8.107   Same; failure to adopt
   
8.108   Same; appropriations shall lapse
   
8.109   Same; financial requirements
   
8.110   Disbursements to be by check; signatures
   
8.111   Returned checks; fee
   
8.112   Audit
   
8.113   Borrowing revenues; by ordinance
   
8.114   Emergency appropriations
Editor’s note:
This article derives from question numbers 33 through 49 of the town
questionnaire, pertinent additions by the editors and generally accepted
municipal practices. At the preparation of this code, the town did not levy a
property tax.
§ 8.101  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 of each year and shall end on June 30
of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 8.101)
§ 8.102  BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall constitute the budget and accounting year for all town
functions.
(Prior Code, § 8.102)
§ 8.103  ANNUAL BUDGET; CAPITAL PROJECTS; SUMMARY; CLERK TO NOTIFY COUNTY.
   a.   Before the beginning of the budget year, the Mayor shall prepare a
budget for the ensuing year. When adopted, the Mayor may transfer funds within
and between departments as necessary to achieve the goals of the budget. He or
she shall inform Council of this action not later than Council’s next meeting.
(S.C. Code § 5-9-40)
   b.   The annual budget ordinance shall be sufficient to produce revenue
necessary to fund the general operations and debt service requirements of the
municipality.
   c.   The budget shall contain a summary of estimates of all capital projects
pending which Council believes should be undertaken within the budget year and
within the next five succeeding years.
   d.   The budget shall be in sufficient detail and summarized as to proposed
income and expenditures in such a manner as to present to Council and to the
taxpayers a simple and clear summary of the budget.
   e.   Upon final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year.
   f.   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer to notify the appropriate
officials of the county of any change in the tax millage rates, when levied by
Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.103)
Cross-reference:
   Mobile home taxes, see
Article II, this chapter.
§ 8.104  SAME; CONTINGENT EXPENSES.
   Separate provisions shall be included in the budget for contingent expenses
for the administration, operation and maintenance of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.104)
§ 8.105  SAME; PUBLIC HEARING; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   a.   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-1-80, as amended, the Town Council shall
determine a place and time for a public hearing on the budget.
   b.   Public notice shall be given by advertising the public hearing before
the adoption of the budget in at least one newspaper of local general
circulation.
   c.   The notice shall be given not less than 15 days in advance of the
public hearing and must be a minimum of two columns wide with a bold headline.
   d.   The public notice shall consist of the requirements of S.C. Code § 6-1-
80.
(Prior Code, § 8.105)
Editor’s note:
   S.C. Code § 6-1-80 requires every municipality to hold a public hearing on
its budget to provide notice to the public by advertising the public hearing
before the adoption of its budget for the next fiscal year in at least one
South Carolina newspaper of general circulation in the area, not less than 15
days in advance of the public hearing. It also provides the details of the
notice which must be a minimum of two columns wide with a bold headline.
§ 8.106  SAME; PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The budget shall be a public record in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer,
for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 8.106)
§ 8.107  SAME; FAILURE TO ADOPT.
   Should Council, by ordinance, fail to adopt a budget for the next fiscal
year, on or before its beginning, the budget as initially proposed by the Mayor
shall be effective until a budget is finally adopted.
(Prior Code, § 8.107)
§ 8.108  SAME; APPROPRIATIONS SHALL LAPSE.
   All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the budget year, to the extent
that they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered.
(Prior Code, § 8.108)
§ 8.109  SAME; FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The budget shall identify various sources of anticipated revenue to meet the
financial requirements of the budget.
(Prior Code, § 8.109)
§ 8.110  DISBURSEMENTS TO BE BY CHECK; SIGNATURES.
   All disbursements shall be by check and signed by the Mayor and the Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.110)
§ 8.111  RETURNED CHECKS; FEE.
   All dishonored checks payable to the town and redeemed by the maker shall
have added to the principal sum a collection fee of $25 for each such check.
(Prior Code, § 8.111)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
14.812, this code.
§ 8.112  AUDIT.
   a.   Prior to the end of each fiscal year, Council shall designate a
qualified Certified Public Accountant who, at the end of the fiscal year, shall
make an independent audit of the accounts and other evidence of financial
transactions of the municipality and shall submit a report to the Council.
   b.   Such accountant shall have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in
the fiscal affairs of the municipality or of any of its officers.
   c.   He or she shall, within specifications approved by Council, post-audit
the books and documents kept by any office, department, board or agency of the
municipality.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-240)  (Prior Code, § 8.112)
Editor’s note:
   The above reference requires the appointment of a certified public
accountant or public accountant or firm of such accountants. They may have no
personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the town or any
of its offices.
§ 8.113  BORROWING REVENUES; BY ORDINANCE.
   a.   The Council may, during each fiscal year, borrow money for its current
expenses and pledge for the payment thereof any revenues collected.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)
   b.   The borrowing of money shall be by ordinance.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-260)
(Prior Code, § 8.113)
§ 8.114  EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS.
   In the absence of unappropriated available revenues to meet emergency
appropriations, Council may authorize by ordinance the issuance of notes, which
may be renewed from time to time, but all such notes and renewals thereof shall
be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next succeeding the
budget year in which the emergency appropriation was made.
(Prior Code, § 8.114)
ARTICLE II: MOBILE HOME TAXES
ARTICLE III: PURCHASING
Section
   
8.301   Purchasing agent; designated; duties
   
8.302   Formal contract procedure; personal property
   
8.303   Bidding; competitive; exception
   
8.304   Award to lowest bidder; advertising; when required
   
8.305   Bid deposits
   
8.306   Sealed bid procedures
   
8.307   Materials testing
   
8.308   Financial interest of town officials and employees prohibited
   
8.309   Records of open market orders and bids
   
8.310   Supplies; unsuitable for public use, sale or exchange
   
8.311   Same; obsolete
   
8.312   Same; surplus
   
8.313   Gifts and rebates
   
8.314   Cooperative purchasing
   
8.315   Waiver
Statutory reference:
   Political subdivisions required to develop and adopt procurement laws, see
S.C. Code § 11-35-5320
§ 8.301  PURCHASING AGENT; DESIGNATED; DUTIES.
   The Clerk/Treasurer, or an officer of the town designated by the Clerk/
Treasurer, shall be the purchasing agent for the town and shall be responsible
for:
   a.   The purchase of supplies, materials and equipment and contractual
services required by any office, department or agency of the town;
   b.   The storage and distribution of all supplies, materials and equipment
required by an office, department of the town;
   c.   Establishing written specifications, whenever practicable, for
supplies, materials and equipment required by an office, department of the
town. Such specifications shall be definite and certain and shall permit of
competition;
   d.   Maintaining, whenever practicable, a perpetual inventory record of all
materials, supplies or equipment stored in storerooms or warehouses;
   e.   Soliciting and maintaining an up-to-date list of qualified suppliers
who have requested their names to be added to a “bidders list”. The purchasing
agent shall have authority to remove temporarily the names of vendors who have
defaulted on their quotations, attempted to defraud the town or who have failed
to meet established specifications or delivery dates; and
   f.   Obtaining as full and open competition as possible on all purchases,
contracts and sales.
(Prior Code, § 8.301)
§ 8.302  FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   a.   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided
herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $5,000, shall be purchased
by formal, written contract from the lowest responsible bidder, after due
notice inviting proposals. No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid
the requirements of this section.
   b.   All sales of personal property which has become obsolete or unusable,
when the estimated value shall exceed $5,000, shall be sold by formal written
contract or at a public auction to the highest responsible bidder, after due
notice inviting proposals and bidders.
(Prior Code, § 8.302)
§ 8.303  BIDDING; COMPETITIVE; EXCEPTION.
   a.   Before any purchases or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or
services exceeding $1,000 are made, the purchasing agent shall give ample
opportunity for competitive bidding. For purchases or contracts not exceeding
$1,000, oral bids may be accepted. All other bids shall be in writing.
   b.   Competitive bidding shall be encouraged for all contracts, purchases or
sales.
   c.   In the event of an emergency affecting the public welfare, health or
safety, the provisions of this section shall not apply. A full report of the
circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the purchasing agent
with the Council and shall be entered in the minutes of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.303)
§ 8.304  AWARD TO LOWEST BIDDER; ADVERTISING; WHEN REQUIRED.
   All contracts for town improvements, materials, equipment or services
costing more than $5,000 shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder
after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town at least
five days before the last day set for receipt of proposals; provided, however,
that in case of professional services, this section shall not apply. The
newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of the
articles or services to be purchased, shall state where bid blanks and
specifications may be secured and the time and place for opening bids.
(Prior Code, § 8.304)
§ 8.305  BID DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the purchasing agent, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Upon entering into a contract,
bidders shall be entitled to return of bid deposit where the purchasing agent
has required such. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required
by the purchasing agent upon failure on his or her part to enter into a
contract within ten days after the award; provided, however, that the town, in
its uncontrolled discretion, may waive this forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 8.305)
§ 8.306  SEALED BID PROCEDURES.
   Procedure for sealed bids shall be basically as follows.
   a.   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the purchasing agent securely
sealed in an envelope, and shall be identified on the envelope in accordance
with bid instructions.
   b.   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in
the public notices.
   c.   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public inspection.
   d.   Rejection of bids. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
   e.   Bidders in default to town. The purchasing agent shall not accept the
bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in the payment of taxes,
license or other monies due the town.
   f.   Award of contract. Council to approve.
      1.   Authority in agent. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
award contracts within the purview of this article; provided, however, that
contracts in excess of $1,000 shall not be awarded without prior approval of
Council.
      2.   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining “lowest responsible bidder”, in addition to
price, the purchasing agent shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with the laws
and ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   g.   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the purchasing agent and filed with the
papers relating to the transaction and held for a period of not less than 12
months.
   h.   Tie bids; local vendors. If all bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be
awarded to the local bidder. If two or more of such bids are submitted by local
bidders, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the local tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. The purchasing agent, local bidders and
vendors should bear in mind, however, that to award a contract to a local
vendor where he or she is not the lowest responsible bidder, or where price,
quality and service are not equal, is to give preference to one minute segment
of the citizenry against the best interest of the community as a whole.
   i.   Performance bonds. The purchasing agent shall have authority to require
a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such form and amount as
he or she shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interest of the
town.
   j.   Payment bond labor and material bond. The purchasing agent may require
a payment bond and a labor and material bond, before entering into a contract,
in such form and amount as he or she shall deem necessary to protect the best
interest of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.306)
§ 8.307  MATERIALS TESTING.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries which
are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications, in the performance of such tests, the purchasing agent shall
have the authority to make use of laboratory facilities of any agency of the
town government or any outside laboratory.
(Prior Code, § 8.307)
§ 8.308  FINANCIAL INTEREST OF TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   No member of the Town Council or any officer or employee of the town shall
have a financial interest in any contract or in the sale to the town or to a
contractor supplying the town of any land or rights or interests in any land,
material, supplies or services; except when a majority of the Town Council
determines such exception is in the best interest of the town, provided, that
no Council member whose interest is involved shall vote on the question. Any
willful violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office, and
any officer or employee of the town found guilty thereof shall thereby forfeit
his or her office or position. Any violation of this section with the
knowledge, express or implied, of the person or corporation contracting with
the town shall render the contract voidable by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.308)
§ 8.309  RECORDS OF OPEN MARKET ORDERS AND BIDS.
   The purchasing agent shall keep a record of all bids submitted in
competition, and such records shall also be open to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8.309)
§ 8.310  SUPPLIES; UNSUITABLE FOR PUBLIC USE, SALE OR EXCHANGE.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to sell all supplies which
have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or trade in
the same on, new supplies. Such sales shall be made to the highest bidder and
in conformance with §
8.402. All monies received from such sales shall be paid into the appropriate
fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.310)
§ 8.311  SAME; OBSOLETE.
   The purchasing agent shall determine such supplies which are no longer used
or which have become obsolete, worn-out or scrapped.
(Prior Code, § 8.311)
§ 8.312  SAME; SURPLUS.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to transfer surplus stock to other
offices, departments or agencies of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.312)
§ 8.313  GIFTS AND REBATES.
   The purchasing agent and every officer and employee of the town are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is, or
might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money or anything of value whatsoever,
except where given for the use and benefit of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8.313)
§ 8.314  COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the town
would be served thereby; provided that the purchasing agent of the town is
given the authority to make purchases of supplies and equipment through the
property division of the state budget and control board, without the formality
of publication and receiving competitive bids.
(Prior Code, § 8.314)
§ 8.315  WAIVER.
   The Mayor and Council, by a majority vote, may waive any provision of this
article when deemed in the best interest of the town. Factors to be considered
may include available sources, the time and place of performance and other
relevant circumstances making the use of competitive bidding inappropriate.
Nothing in this article is intended to authorize letting contract without
competitive bids when state law requires such bids.
(Prior Code, § 8.315)
ARTICLE IV: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
8.401   Business license ordinance not repealed
   
8.402   Administration; enforcement
   
8.403   Yard sales; no fee required
Editor’s note:
Business license ordinances are not included in codes, due to its technical
nature. The ordinances are filed with the Clerk/Treasurer and available for
public inspection during regular office hours.
§ 8.401  BUSINESS LICENSE ORDINANCE NOT REPEALED.
   a.   The provisions of the business and professional license ordinance of
the town, as amended, are not repealed.
   b.   The provisions shall remain in full force and effect, as if fully set
forth herein and made a part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.401)
§ 8.402  ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   The responsibility for administering said ordinance is hereby vested in the
Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.402)
§ 8.403  YARD SALES; NO FEE REQUIRED.
   Yard sales shall be permitted without charge; provided, however, notice
thereof shall be given to the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8.403)
ARTICLE V: FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
8.501   Cable providers
§ 8.501  CABLE PROVIDERS.
   A franchise fee rate of 5% of gross revenues derived from the operation of
the cable system to provide cable service (as defined in S.C. Code § 58-12-120)
is imposed for all cable service providers upon expiration of an existing
franchise with the municipality or upon termination by the cable service
provider of an existing franchise with the municipality. Notwithstanding any
provisions of the expired or terminated franchise, the municipality, in the
event of expiration or termination by the cable service provider of the
franchise reserves all rights to impose on the cable service provider all ad
valorem taxes, service fees, sales tax or other taxes and fees lawfully imposed
or to be imposed on other businesses within the municipality.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 10-2-2006)
ARTICLE VI: PENALTIES
Section
   
8.601   Penalty; exceptions
§ 8.601  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 8.501)
CHAPTER 9: FIRE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE PREVENTION
   Article
      
I.   PROHIBITED ACTS
      
II.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: PROHIBITED ACTS
Section
   
9.101   False alarms
   
9.102   Parking at hydrants; obstructing fire equipment or members
   
9.103   Following or parking near fire equipment; bystanders
   
9.104   Failure to obey lawful orders
   
9.105   Driving over fire hose
   
9.106   Opening fire hydrants
   
9.107   Burning trash
   
9.108   Fire hazard upon lots, buildings or premises; accumulation, growth and
the like
   
9.109   Fires near buildings
   
9.110   Right of entry during emergencies
   
9.111   Responding to alarms; right-of-way
   
9.112   Law enforcement officers to enforce provisions
Statutory reference:
   Soliciting funds from motorists, see S.C. Code § 5-27-910
Editor’s note:
   Many towns in this state have made arrangements with their respective
counties for fire service. The town has such an agreement with the county.
Prohibited acts are included herein for safety purposes.
   This article derives from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws and generally
accepted municipal practices and acts prohibited by other municipalities. (See
S.C. Code § 56-5-760 for operation of emergency vehicles.)
§ 9.101  FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give a false fire alarm by
telephoning, informing any person that an emergency exists, knowing the same to
be untrue, or in any manner, communicating falsely to the Fire Department that
an emergency exists.
(S.C. Code § 16-17-570)  (Prior Code, § 9.101)
§ 9.102  PARKING AT HYDRANTS; OBSTRUCTING FIRE EQUIPMENT OR MEMBERS.
   a.   No person shall park any vehicle within 15 feet of a fire hydrant nor
otherwise cause any obstruction to fire equipment at an emergency incident.
   b.   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or obstruct the activities of
any member of the Fire Department who is acting in his or her official capacity
or when proceeding to an emergency incident.
(Prior Code, § 9.102)
§ 9.103  FOLLOWING OR PARKING NEAR FIRE EQUIPMENT; BYSTANDERS.
   a.   No driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to an emergency incident closer
than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to an emergency incident.
   b.   Bystanders shall stay a safe distance away as determined by the officer
in charge.
(S.C. Code § 56-5-1960)  (Prior Code, § 9.103)
§ 9.104  FAILURE TO OBEY LAWFUL ORDERS.
   a.   Failure to obey any lawful order of any official of the Fire Department
or law enforcement officer at the scene of a fire or any emergency, or en route
thereto, shall constitute a violation of this article.
   b.   Fire Department officials may require motor vehicles or other vehicles
parked within the area to be moved immediately and block the street from other
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 9.104)
§ 9.105  DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without permission of the Fire Chief or
his or her designee, to drive a vehicle of any description over or across a
fire hose stretched or laid upon the ground for use at a fire or for any other
lawful purpose of the Fire Department.
(S.C. Code § 56-5-3850)  (Prior Code, § 9.105)
§ 9.106  OPENING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to interfere with or open
for any purpose whatever any fire hydrants of the town, except in case of fire,
without first having obtained a proper permit to do so from the local water
authority.
(Prior Code, § 9.106)
§ 9.107  BURNING TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any trash or to have a bonfire within the
corporate limits, without first obtaining permission from the property owner
and a permit from the State Forestry Commission or DHEC.
(Prior Code, § 9.107)
§ 9.108  FIRE HAZARD UPON LOTS, BUILDINGS OR PREMISES; ACCUMULATION, GROWTH AND
THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant, occupant, person possessing or
any other person, to permit, allow or cause any condition, accumulation, growth
or structure, or other matter, to exist upon any lot, building or premises so
as to constitute or create a fire hazard, or to increase the menace of fire.
Any person who shall fail, within seven calendar days of a notice, to eliminate
a fire hazard, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.108)
§ 9.109  FIRES NEAR BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or ignite a fire within the
corporate limits that would endanger any property or building.
(Prior Code, § 9.109)
§ 9.110  RIGHT OF ENTRY DURING EMERGENCIES.
   In a fire or life threatening emergency, while endeavoring to control or
extinguish fires or rescue injured victims, the Chief, or his or her designated
representatives, may pass through and enter any adjacent building or property.
(Prior Code, § 9.110)
§ 9.111  RESPONDING TO ALARMS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   All motor equipment of the Fire Department, law enforcement officers and the
vehicles of volunteers shall have the right-of-way over all other vehicles,
when responding to an alarm.
(Prior Code, § 9.111)
§ 9.112  LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   Law enforcement officers shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.112)
ARTICLE II: PENALTIES
Section
   
9.201   Penalty; exceptions
§ 9.201  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 9.201)
CHAPTER 10: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   WASTE REMOVAL
      
III.   VACANT LOTS, PREMISES AND LAND
      
IV.   TOILET FACILITIES
      
V.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
10.101   DHEC provisions adopted
   
10.102   Unwholesome/offensive odors unlawful
   
10.103   Debris removal
   
10.104   Hog pens prohibited
   
10.105   Slaughterhouses unlawful
§ 10.101  DHEC PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   All health matters, generally shall conform in all respects to the
requirements of the state Department of Health and Environmental Control
(defined for purposes of this chapter as “DHEC”), being S.C. Code §§ 44-1-20 to
44-1-315.
(Prior Code, § 10.101)
§ 10.102  UNWHOLESOME/OFFENSIVE ODORS UNLAWFUL.
   a.   No person shall erect or maintain any place of business dangerous to
life or detrimental to health or where unwholesome, offensive or deleterious
gas, smoke, deposits or exhalations are generated without approval from the
County Board of Health.
   b.   All such establishments shall be kept clean and wholesome so as not to
be offensive or prejudicial to public health.
   c.   No offensive or deleterious waste substance, water-gas tar, sludge,
refuse or injurious matter shall be allowed to accumulate upon the premises
thereof or be thrown or allowed to run into any public water, stream,
watercourse or onto any street or public place.
(Prior Code, § 10.102)
§ 10.103  DEBRIS REMOVAL.
   a.   It shall be the duty of persons creating debris on property, either in
the form of shrubbery, tree limbs, grass cuttings, weeds or similar debris, to
remove the same.
   b.   Anyone providing services to residents or businesses in the town, such
as roofers, building contractors, pulpwood dealers, and the like, upon
completing such services, shall remove any debris created thereby.
(Prior Code, § 10.103)
§ 10.104  HOG PENS PROHIBITED.
   Hog pens are hereby declared to be unlawful within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 10.104)
§ 10.105  SLAUGHTERHOUSES UNLAWFUL.
   Slaughterhouses shall not be permitted in the town.
(Prior Code, § 10.105)
ARTICLE II: WASTE REMOVAL
Editor’s note:
   At the preparation of this code of ordinances, the town had no provisions
for solid waste collection and disposal. This article has been added for the
future when the town may provide the details for these provisions.
ARTICLE III: VACANT LOTS, PREMISES AND LAND
Section
   
10.301   Accumulations prohibited
   
10.302   Same; summons for failure to maintain lots
   
10.303   Same; how summons given
   
10.304   Same; failure to clean declared a misdemeanor; penalty
   
10.305   Slum and blighted areas
Editor’s note:
   This authority derives from S.C. Code § 5-7-80 and generally accepted
municipal practices.
§ 10.301  ACCUMULATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain or to
permit to be maintained any vacant lots, improved or unimproved premises or
land upon which grass, weeds, undergrowth, trash, garbage, offal, stagnant
water, building materials, glass, wood, junk or other matter deleterious to
good health and public sanitation which is permitted or caused to accumulate in
any manner which is or may become a nuisance causing injury to the health or
welfare of the residents or the public in the vicinity or causing injury to
neighboring property.
(Prior Code, § 10.301)
§ 10.302  SAME; SUMMONS FOR FAILURE TO MAINTAIN LOTS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to summon the owner of such
premises. If, after fully hearing the matter and any statement the owner may
make and any testimony he or she may offer on his or her behalf concerning such
matter, the Chief should find such premises or lot in a condition tending to
injure the public health, he or she shall issue a written order or notice
directed to the owner, directing and requiring him or her within a reasonable
and specified time to clear such premises or lot in order to abate such
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10.302)
§ 10.303  SAME; HOW SUMMONS GIVEN.
   The notice shall be served on the owner to whom it is directed or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to such owner at his or her
last known post office address. In the event personal service cannot be made
and the owner’s address is unknown, such notice shall be given by publication
at least two times within 15 consecutive days in a local newspaper of general
circulation.
(Prior Code, § 10.303)
§ 10.304  SAME; FAILURE TO CLEAN DECLARED A MISDEMEANOR; PENALTY.
   a.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with an order
to remove said property shall be served an ordinance summons to appear before
the Magistrate, as provided in §
14.101 of this code.
   b.   Upon conviction, any person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to such fine as may be imposed by the Magistrate.
(Prior Code, § 10.304)
§ 10.305  SLUM AND BLIGHTED AREAS.
   a.   The definition of a “slum and blighted area” below is adopted for
purposes of designating areas, making application for funds and expenditure of
funds for the improvement, preservation, conservation or redevelopment of such
areas as may be identified by resolution of Council describing the area and
identifying the conditions which meet the standards in the definition.
   b.   In accordance with state law, a SLUM AND BLIGHTED AREA means any
improved or vacant area within identified boundaries located within the
territorial limits of the municipality where:
      1.   The area consists of improved industrial or commercial, and
residential buildings or improvements, which because of a combination of five
or more of the following factors (one of the factors must be item b.1.(f) or
b.1.(j) are detrimental to the public safety, health, morals or welfare, within
the area:
         (a)   Age of buildings (defined as at least 50 years old);
         (b)   Dilapidation so as not to be suitable as a residence or place of
business;
         (c)   Obsolescence;
         (d)   Deterioration;
         (e)   Illegal use of individual structure;
         (f)   Presence of structures below locally adopted code standards
(defined as 25% of structures within the designated area);
         (g)   Excessive vacancies;
         (h)   Overcrowding of structures and community facilities;
         (i)   Lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
         (j)   Deterioration of public facilities;
         (k)   Excessive land coverage;
         (l)   Deleterious land use or layout;
         (m)   Depreciation of physical maintenance; and
         (n)   Lack of community planning.
      2.   If vacant, the sound growth is impaired by:
         (a)   A combination of two or more of the following factors:
            i.   Obsolete platting of the vacant land;
            ii.   Diversity of ownership of such land;
            iii.   Tax and special assessment delinquencies on such land; or
            iv.   Deterioration of structures of site improvements in
neighboring areas adjacent to the vacant land.
         (b)   The area immediately prior to becoming vacant qualified as a
slum and blighted area.
(Ord. 2006-8, passed 9-11-2006)
ARTICLE IV: TOILET FACILITIES
Section
   
10.401   Pit privy defined; declared unlawful
   
10.402   Disposal of human excrement
   
10.403   Building contracts to provide for waste disposal
§ 10.401  PIT PRIVY DEFINED; DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   a.   State law (S.C. Code § 44-55-210) prohibits any property owner to
construct, erect, install, maintain or permit to remain any pit privy on any
property within the corporate limits.
   b.   The term PIT PRIVY, as used in this article, shall mean a building used
for affording privacy while in the act of urination or defecation.
(Prior Code, § 10.401)
§ 10.402  DISPOSAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit or throw
upon the ground or bury any human excrement, solid or liquid, or to otherwise
dispose of such substances in any manner other than into a sanitary septic tank
constructed in accordance with DHEC requirements.
(Prior Code, § 10.402)
§ 10.403  BUILDING CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE FOR WASTE DISPOSAL.
   a.   All building contracts for the erection of structures anticipated for
human occupancy shall provide for adequate and sanitary waste disposal.
   b.   The contract shall provide for such facilities, the plans shall state
the proposed method of disposal and the Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified.
(Prior Code, § 10.403)
ARTICLE V: PENALTIES
Section
   
10.501   Penalty; exceptions
§ 10.501  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 10.501)
CHAPTER 11: MOBILE HOMES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
11.101   Parks; courts; mobile homes
Editor’s note:
   This chapter has been added for the purpose of governing the placement,
construction and development standards for mobile home parks or courts within
the municipal limits. Zoning regulations control location and space provisions.
§ 11.101  PARKS; COURTS; MOBILE HOMES.
   a.   Placement of individual mobile homes on individual lots shall front on
a public road.
   b.   Each mobile home shall be required to have separate taps, connections
and meters for all utilities provided, which shall be connected directly to the
system of the utility provider.
   c.   The mobile home shall be securely underpinned and anchored as required
by the Standard Building Code. The securing of a unit must be inspected and
approved by the authorized appointed official of the town prior to occupancy.
   d.   Each mobile home shall have vinyl skirting constructed of bricks,
concrete blocks or other appropriate material that extends from the exterior
wall to the ground. The tongue shall be removed where so designed.
   e.   Mobile homes shall be placed on one of the following types of
foundations which shall be subject to approval of the Town Clerk:
      1.   Piers under frame of masonry construction;
      2.   Foundations shall be so constructed as to prevent settling and
accumulation of water under the mobile home;
      3.   All mobile homes placed on a concrete slab foundation or on a
concrete or masonry footing foundation shall be provided with appropriate
skirting of solid durable material around the entire perimeter;
      4.   Each mobile home shall be securely underpinned and anchored in
accordance with the Standard Building Code; or
      5.   A business license shall be required for the opening or operation of
a mobile home park or court in the town. Said license may be revoked by the
Town Council for the violation of this chapter or other applicable ordinance
and regulations governing the operation of such uses. Said revocation shall be
in addition to other remedies provided by this code.
   f.   Town Council may permit a special exception for the temporary use of a
mobile home in connection with the primary residence of said owner or the use
of mobile home for temporary business purposes, upon a finding that said use
shall not adversely affect surrounding property and environmental conditions,
shall not be contrary to the public interest and not cause substantial
detriment to the public good. If any such use is approved, Council shall have
authority to place additional conditions on said use.
(Prior Code, § 11.101)
Cross-reference:
   Building codes, see §
5.201
ARTICLE II: PENALTIES
Section
   
11.201   Penalty; exceptions
§ 11.201  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 11.201)
CHAPTER 12:
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 13: POLICE
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   RULES OF CONDUCT
      
III.   INTERFERENCE
      
IV.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
13.101   Composition; appointment; oath of office
   
13.102   Chief of Police; authority
   
13.103   Functions
   
13.104   Special police officers
   
13.105   Mutual aid absent emergencies
   
13.106   Powers; generally
   
13.107   Bonds and fines
   
13.108   Same; bail money
   
13.109   Surety bond
   
13.110   Compensation
   
13.111   Uniforms; exceptions
   
13.112   Property to be returned
   
13.113   Streets; jurisdiction
   
13.114   Same; observation of conditions
   
13.115   Temporary transfer of law enforcement officers; written agreement;
compensation; bond
   
13.116   Emergencies; other political subdivisions; assistance
   
13.117   Personal property; recovered
   
13.118   Take home vehicles
Editor’s note:
   State law (S.C. Code § 5-7-260) authorizes a municipal governing body to
establish, alter or abolish any department by ordinance.
§ 13.101  COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; OATH OF OFFICE.
   a.   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor.
   b.   The Mayor shall appoint such other officers and employees as may be
required.
   c.   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, each police
officer shall take and subscribe to an oath that he or she will support the
constitution and laws of the state and the Constitution of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 13.101)
Cross-reference:
   As to oath, see §
2.108
§ 13.102  CHIEF OF POLICE; AUTHORITY.
   a.   The Chief of Police, subject to the Mayor, shall have administrative
supervision over the Police Department.
   b.   He or she shall be responsible for the enforcement of state laws and
town ordinances, protection of life and property, preservation of law and
order, investigation of crimes and suppression of vice.
   c.   The Chief shall direct the proper assignment of police officers,
establish training programs, maintain adequate records, provide traffic control
and enforcement, cooperate with other law enforcement agencies, establish
departmental rules and regulations, and be responsible for the custody of town
prisoners.
   d.   The Chief and police officers are given the same authority over lands
owned by the town or leased to the town beyond the town limits as they have
within the town.
   e.   He or she shall perform such additional duties as may be assigned to
him or her by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 13.102)
§ 13.103  FUNCTIONS.
   The Police Department shall perform the following functions:
   a.   Provide protection for persons and property against unlawful acts and
reduce the opportunity for committing crime within the town;
   b.   Maintain an active crime prevention and control program in order to
ensure the security of the citizens;
   c.   Provide police patrol services in all areas of the town;
   d.   Investigate crimes and identify the perpetrators of crimes;
   e.   Recover stolen property and investigate and apprehend those who receive
stolen property;
   f.   Arrest, apprehend and prosecute offenders;
   g.   Maintain detention facilities to house persons arrested on various
charges;
   h.   Design and implement training programs for employees of the Department;
   i.   Maintain and administer records and identification facilities for
processing of persons arrested, including the processing, storage and control
of evidence;
   j.   Maintain a communications system;
   k.   Maintain and supply uniforms and clothing for all uniformed personnel;
and
   l.   Perform such other functions as prescribed by the town Council or by
directives of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 13.103)
§ 13.104  SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   a.   The Mayor, upon any emergency or apprehension of riot or tumult or mob
violence or threatened violence, and during any of the public elections, may
appoint as many special police officers as he or she may deem necessary;
provided, that such special police officers shall not be paid at a higher rate
than that paid to regular patrol officers at the time such services are
performed.
   b.   Such special police officers shall be subject to the provisions of this
article and all rules and regulations of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 13.104)
§ 13.105  MUTUAL AID ABSENT EMERGENCIES.
   a.   In the absence of emergency conditions, the Chief of Police is hereby
authorized to enter mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions for
mutual aid.
   b.   The agreements shall be written and shall state the conditions and
terms of the temporary employment of officers to be transferred.
(Prior Code, § 13.105)
§ 13.106  POWERS; GENERALLY.
   a.   Each officer of the Department shall be sworn and invested with all
powers as authorized by law, and he or she shall have the power to perform all
duties assigned to him or her by statutes, ordinances, resolutions, directives,
rules or regulations.
   b.   Any officer failing or refusing to exercise his or her lawful authority
shall be subject to suspension or discharge.
(Prior Code, § 13.106)
§ 13.107  BONDS AND FINES.
   An official written receipt shall be given for all cash bonds and fines
which are hereby authorized.
(Prior Code, § 13.107)
§ 13.108  SAME; BAIL MONEY.
   Upon receipt of bail money, the apprehended person may be released.
(Prior Code, § 13.108)
§ 13.109  SURETY BOND.
   ASI members of the Department shall give bond in favor of the town, in the
amounts and under the conditions as the Council may, from time to time,
determine. The premiums shall be paid by the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.109)
§ 13.110  COMPENSATION.
   Compensation shall be determined by the Council and included in the annual
budget.
(Prior Code, § 13.110)
§ 13.111  UNIFORMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Every police officer shall wear a uniform at all times while on duty,
of the type and quality approved by the Chief.
   b.   Exceptions hereto shall include, but not be limited to, surveillance,
undercover and covert operations.
(Prior Code, § 13.111)
§ 13.112  PROPERTY TO BE RETURNED.
   a.   Upon termination of services, for whatever reason, all members of the
Department shall return any equipment and all official material or things
belonging to the Department.
   b.   Failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13.112)
§ 13.113  STREETS; JURISDICTION.
   If any portion of a street or highway is within the boundary of the
municipality, the remaining width of the street or highway, not within the
municipal boundary but touching the boundary, shall be considered to be within
the boundary of the municipality for purposes of its police jurisdiction.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-155)  (Prior Code, § 13.113)
§ 13.114  SAME; OBSERVATION OF CONDITIONS.
   All members of the Department shall constantly observe the condition of all
streets, sidewalks and alleys, including any obstruction, nuisance or
impediments, and shall take necessary measures to remove or abate them or to
report such conditions to the appropriate town official.
(Prior Code, § 13.114)
§ 13.115  TEMPORARY TRANSFER OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; WRITTEN AGREEMENT;
COMPENSATION; BOND.
   a.   Any officer of the town may be transferred on a temporary basis to work
in law enforcement in any other municipality or county in this state under the
conditions set forth in this section, and when so transferred, shall have all
powers and authority of a law enforcement officer employed by the jurisdiction
to which he or she is transferred.
   b.   Prior to any transfer as authorized herein, the Mayor and Council shall
enter into written agreements, stating the conditions and terms of the
temporary employment of officers to be transferred. The bond for any officer
transferred shall include coverage for his or her activity in the municipality
or county to which he or she is transferred in the same manner and to the same
extent provided by bonds of regularly employed officers of that municipality or
county.
   c.   Agreements made pursuant to divisions above shall provide that
temporary transfers shall in no manner affect or reduce the compensation,
pension or retirement rights of transferred officers and such officers shall
continue to be paid by the town with the reimbursement for their services by
the county or municipality to which they are transferred.
(Prior Code, § 13.115)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see S.C. Code § 23-20-30
§ 13.116  EMERGENCIES; OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS; ASSISTANCE.
   In case of emergency, the Mayor may, upon request of any other political
subdivision of this state, send any law enforcement officers of the town to the
requesting political subdivision.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-120)  (Prior Code, § 13.116)
§ 13.117  PERSONAL PROPERTY; RECOVERED.
   a.   This section shall apply to all bicycles, cameras, electronic
equipment, office machines, watches, clocks, jewelry and other items which may
be recovered by or returned to the Police Department in connection with the
performance of its duties. Such items are hereby referred to as personal
property.
   b.   All personal property which has been lost, stolen or abandoned and
which is in the possession of the Department and which remains unclaimed by the
owner, shall be disposed of by annual public sale to the highest bidder by the
purchasing agent.
   c.   Notice of same shall be posted at the Town Hall at least 15 days prior
to such sale.
   d.   Said notice shall contain time, place and terms of the sale and a
description of the property to be sold.
   e.   The proceeds from the sale of unclaimed personal property shall be paid
into the General Fund of the town on the day of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 13.117)
Cross-reference:
   Responsibility of Purchasing Agent, see
Chapter 8,
Article III
§ 13.118  TAKE HOME VEHICLES.
   Council may authorize police activities at local business establishments and
the use of official uniforms in the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-2-2018)
ARTICLE II: RULES OF CONDUCT
Section
   
13.201   Personal appearance; uniform; equipment
   
13.202   Drinking on duty
   
13.203   Conduct; general demeanor
   
13.204   Same; on duty
   
13.205   Same; off duty
   
13.206   Public discussion of Department prohibited
   
13.207   Suspensions; hearing
   
13.208   Same; Chief of Police
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 13.201  PERSONAL APPEARANCE; UNIFORM; EQUIPMENT.
   a.   All personnel on duty shall maintain an appearance of neatness,
cleanliness and dignity, as may be approved by the Chief of Police. He or she
shall be in uniform as his or her duties may dictate.
   b.   He or she shall keep said uniform clean, pressed and in good repair and
his or her equipment clean and in good working order.
(Prior Code, § 13.201)
§ 13.202  DRINKING ON DUTY.
   No member of the Department shall partake of any alcohol or other
intoxicating liquors while on duty.
(Prior Code, § 13.202)
§ 13.203  CONDUCT; GENERAL DEMEANOR.
   Each member of the Department shall conduct himself or herself at all times
in a quiet and orderly manner.
(Prior Code, § 13.203)
§ 13.204  SAME; ON DUTY.
   Each officer shall, at all times while on duty, act with prudence, coolness
and judgment, but with a deliberate determination of effecting and strictly
enforcing all the laws and ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.204)
§ 13.205  SAME; OFF DUTY.
   All police personnel, while off duty, shall conduct themselves in such a
manner as to command the respect of the public. He or she shall wear no uniform
or any part thereof while off duty, unless he or she obtains prior approval in
writing from a superior officer.
(Prior Code, § 13.205)
§ 13.206  PUBLIC DISCUSSION OF DEPARTMENT PROHIBITED.
   No personnel shall discuss any activity or any employee of the Department
with the general public. Complaints shall be made in accordance with the chain
of command.
(Prior Code, § 13.206)
§ 13.207  SUSPENSIONS; HEARING.
   Subject to the prior approval of the Mayor, the Chief of Police may suspend
or discharge any police officer for neglect of duty, disobedience of orders or
violation of any law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 13.207)  (Ord. 2008-3, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 13.208  SAME; CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Mayor shall discipline the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 13.208)  (Ord. 2008-3, passed 7-7-2008)
ARTICLE III: INTERFERENCE
Section
   
13.301   Obedience to officers
   
13.302   Citizens to aid; posse commitatus
   
13.303   Obstructing officer; warrants
   
13.304   Resisting officer making arrest
   
13.305   Assaulting officer
   
13.306   Approaching within 20 feet of person being arrested
   
13.307   Failure to stop on command of officer
   
13.308   Counseling, advising and the like unlawful
   
13.309   Communication with prisoners
   
13.310   Escape from custody unlawful
   
13.311   Imitating signal or call for police officer prohibited
   
13.312   Aiding or abetting violation
Cross-reference:
   Compliance with Fire Department, see
Ch. 9 Art. I
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws and generally
accepted police procedures.
§ 13.301  OBEDIENCE TO OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to obey or comply with any lawful
order or direction of any police officer or other officer of the law, while
such officer is engaged in the performance of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 13.301)
§ 13.302  CITIZENS TO AID; POSSE COMMITATUS.
   It shall be the duty of all citizens, when called upon by a police officer,
to promptly aid and assist such officer in the discharge of his or her duties.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-7-30 and 23-15-70)  (Prior Code, § 13.302)
§ 13.303  OBSTRUCTING OFFICER; WARRANTS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, hinder and oppose a
peace officer, or to attempt to do so, when such peace officer is engaged in
the discharge of his or her duty, including the serving of a warrant.
   b.   In the serving of a warrant, no occupied dwelling shall be searched
between sundown and sunrise, except as permitted by state law.
(S.C. Code § 16-5-50)  (Prior Code, § 13.303)
§ 13.304  RESISTING OFFICER MAKING ARREST.
   Any person or persons who shall resist or aid any person or persons in
resisting an officer in the discharge of his or her duty, upon conviction,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13.304)
§ 13.305  ASSAULTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an assault upon any peace
officer in any manner, when such peace officer is engaged in the discharge of
his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 13.305)
§ 13.306  APPROACHING WITHIN 20 FEET OF PERSON BEING ARRESTED.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons willfully to approach
nearer than 20 feet to any police officer who is making an arrest or attempting
to do so.
   b.   All police officers are empowered to order all persons away from the
vicinity of the site of arrest while any person is being held for custody.
(Prior Code, § 13.306)
§ 13.307  FAILURE TO STOP ON COMMAND OF OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly fail or
refuse to stop when signaled, hailed or commanded to stop by a police officer
or other peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 13.307)
§ 13.308  COUNSELING, ADVISING AND THE LIKE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to counsel, advise, incite, abet,
procure or aid any other person in the violation of any ordinance. Such person
shall be held and deemed a principal. (State v. Westfield. 1 Bail. (17 S.C.L.
132))
(S.C. Code § 16-1-40)  (Prior Code, § 13.308)
§ 13.309  COMMUNICATION WITH PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except authorized officials, to give
anything to or in any way communicate with any prisoner confined, unless
permission to do so shall have first been obtained from the Chief of Police or
his or her deputies.
(Prior Code, § 13.309)
§ 13.310  ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to escape from custody of a police
officer or to rescue or attempt to do so, hinder a police officer or offer to
help, aid, assist, or abet, directly or indirectly, another person or persons
to escape from the custody of an officer making an arrest or an officer
assisting therein.
(S.C. Code § 16-9-420)  (Prior Code, § 13.310)
§ 13.311  IMITATING SIGNAL OR CALL FOR POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   Anyone imitating the signal or call for a police officer, either through
mischief or otherwise, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13.311)
§ 13.312  AIDING OR ABETTING VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or abet any other person in the
violation of this code or of any ordinance, or part thereof, of the town, or to
procure, encourage, incite or advise any other person to violate this code or
any ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 13.312)
ARTICLE IV: PENALTIES
Section
   
13.401   Penalty; exceptions
§ 13.401  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 13.401); Offenses
CHAPTER 14: PUBLIC PEACE; OFFENSES
   Article
      
I.   ORDINANCE SUMMONS
      
II.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
III.   BEER, ALE, PORTER AND WINE
      
IV.   MUSICAL DEVICES; ENTERTAINMENTS
      
V.   GAMING OPERATIONS
      
VI.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY, DECENCY AND PUBLIC WELFARE
      
VII.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
      
VIII.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
IX.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
      
X.   PARADES; DEMONSTRATING; PICKETING
      
XI.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: ORDINANCE SUMMONS
Section
   
14.101   Summons ordinance; procedure for offenses other than breach of peace
Editor’s note:
   This article is commonly referred to as the “Ordinance Summons” or “Summons
Ordinance”. It is authorized by S.C. Code § 56-7-80. These provisions follow
recommendations of the Municipal Association. Portions of this chapter derive
from various articles of the 1982 Cottageville Town Code.
§ 14.101  SUMMONS ORDINANCE; PROCEDURE FOR OFFENSES OTHER THAN BREACH OF PEACE.
   a.   In all actions for the violation of the provisions of the ordinances of
the town, not amounting to a breach of the peace, the initial process may be a
summons issued by the town officials or employees, who are authorized by
division e. below to issue summons commanding the person named therein as
defendant to appear before the Magistrate at a time to be set in the summons.
   b.   The summons shall cite only one violation per summons and must contain
the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the person or entity charged;
      2.   The name and title of the issuing officer;
      3.   The time, date and location of the hearing;
      4.   A description of the ordinance violated;
      5.   The procedure to post bond; and
      6.   Any other notice or warning otherwise required by law.
   c.   Breach of peace shall be considered a generic term and shall include
all violations of public peace or order and acts tending to be a disturbance
thereof.
   d.   Any person who fails to appear before the court as required by the
summons, without first having posted such bond as may be required or without
having been granted a continuance by the court, upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   e.   The Town Council shall designate individuals who shall be authorized to
issue municipal summons that shall be spread upon the minutes of Council.
   f.   This section shall not apply to any ordinance that regulates the use of
motor vehicles on the public roads.
   g.   This section shall not be construed as a limitation upon the power of
any person, officer or employee to seek or pursue any other lawful process or
legal remedy.
   h.   The bond amount for violations shall be prescribed by the Magistrate.
Bonds shall be posted in the manner prescribed by him or her. Town officers,
when appointed, and other law enforcement officers shall be prohibited from
accepting bonds, except as may be otherwise permitted by this code.
   i.   A custodial arrest may be made using this summons if:
      1.   It is a freshly committed offense;
      2.   It is committed in the officer’s presence; and
      3.   It is triable in Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 14.101)
ARTICLE II: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
14.201   Definition
   
14.202   Jurisdiction of the municipal court
   
14.203   Prior offenses
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws and generally
accepted municipal practices. Although various state laws regarding the
regulation of alcoholic beverages have been repealed, this article has been
included to provide guidance to the town and to assist law enforcement
officers.
§ 14.201  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS. Any spirituous malt, vinous, fermented, brewed or other
liquors or any compound or mixture thereof by whatever name called or known
which contains alcohol and used as a beverage.
(Prior Code, § 14.201)
§ 14.202  JURISDICTION OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall try and determine all cases involving any
violation of this article occurring within the corporate limits and shall have
jurisdiction over such criminal cases. The Municipal Judge shall send such
cases occurring within the corporate limits but beyond its jurisdiction to try
to the higher courts.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 14.202)
§ 14.203  PRIOR OFFENSES.
   A conviction, plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere or forfeiture of bond
for the violation of any of the laws of this state, or of the United States
relating to alcoholic liquor shall constitute prior offense for the purpose of
any prosecution, or for the purpose of imposition of sentence for any
subsequent violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14.203)
ARTICLE III: BEER, ALE, PORTER AND WINE
Section
   
14.301   Unlawful to sell unless tax paid
   
14.302   Sale to minors
   
14.303   Giving false age
   
14.304   Purchase for transfer to persons under 21
   
14.305   Purchase or possession by minor
   
14.306   Drinking, possession on licensed premises; prohibited hours
   
14.307   Drinking liquor in public conveyances
   
14.308   Intoxicating beverages; drinking in public
   
14.309   Acts prohibited on licensed premises; revocation of license
   
14.310   Sale of beer or wine after license revoked, canceled or suspended
   
14.311   Permittee selling draft beer to be approved by DHEC
   
14.312   Same; permit and health certificate to be posted
   
14.313   Manufacture, sell, buy and the like unlawful
   
14.314   Unlawful purchase
   
14.315   Unlawful to consume at certain places; public property
   
14.316   Unstamped liquor contraband
Editor’s note:
This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices, it has been
included to provide guidance to the town and to assist law enforcement
officers.
§ 14.301  UNLAWFUL TO SELL UNLESS TAX PAID.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or permit to be sold any
beer, ale, porter, wine, malt or other beverage authorized to be sold under
state statutes regulating same, on which tax levied be not paid.
   b.   The first offense shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.301)
§ 14.302  SALE TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, ale, porter, wine or other
malt or fermented beverage to a minor under the age of 21 years.
(Prior Code, § 14.302)
§ 14.303  GIVING FALSE AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom beer or wine cannot be lawfully
sold to knowingly give false information concerning his or her age for the
purpose of purchasing beer or wine.
(Prior Code, § 14.303)
§ 14.304  PURCHASE FOR TRANSFER TO PERSONS UNDER 21.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer beer, wine or alcoholic
liquor to persons under 21 years of age for the purpose of consumption.
(Prior Code, § 14.304)
§ 14.305  PURCHASE OR POSSESSION BY MINOR.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 21 years to
purchase, or knowingly have in his or her possession any beer, ale, porter,
wine or any other similar malt or fermented beverage. Any such possession shall
be prima facie evidence that it was knowingly possessed.
   b.   This section shall not apply to any employee lawfully engaged in the
sale or delivery of any such beverage in an unopened container.
(Prior Code, § 14.305)
§ 14.306  DRINKING, POSSESSION ON LICENSED PREMISES; PROHIBITED HOURS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic liquors on the
premises of any retail, wholesale or manufacturing alcoholic liquor business or
business establishment.
   b.   It shall be unlawful to sell, give away, disperse or permit the
consumption of any wine, beer or malt liquor in a place of business, including
the premises, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 14.306)
§ 14.307  DRINKING LIQUOR IN PUBLIC CONVEYANCES.
   Any person who shall drink alcoholic liquor in any public conveyance, upon
conviction, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.307)
§ 14.308  INTOXICATING BEVERAGES; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drink any kind of
intoxicating alcoholic beverages on the streets, alleyways, highways or other
such public places, except for permitted activities.
(Prior Code, § 14.308)
§ 14.309  ACTS PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   a.   No holder of a permit authorizing the sale of beer or wine or any
servant, agent or employee of the permittee shall knowingly do any of the
following acts upon the licensed premises covered by such holder’s permit:
      1.   Sell beer or wine to any person while such person is in an
intoxicated condition;
      2.   Permit gambling or games of chance;
      3.   Permit any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or
practices;
      4.   Permit any act, the commission of which tends to create a public
nuisance or which constitutes a crime under local ordinances or the laws of the
state; or
      5.   Sell, offer for sale or possess any beverage or alcoholic liquor,
the sale or possession of which is prohibited on licensed premises under the
laws of this state.
   b.   A violation of any of the foregoing provisions shall be grounds for the
revocation or suspension of such holder’s permit by the state.
(Prior Code, § 14.309)
§ 14.310  SALE OF BEER OR WINE AFTER LICENSE REVOKED, CANCELED OR SUSPENDED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any holder of a license, to sell
beer or wine at wholesale or retail, to sell or offer to sell beer or wine
after such license shall have been revoked or canceled or during the period of
a suspension of such license.
(Prior Code, § 14.310)
§ 14.311  PERMITTEE SELLING DRAFT BEER TO BE APPROVED BY DHEC.
   No person holding a retail permit to sell beer, ale, porter and other
similar malt or fermented beverages, issued by the state, shall sell such
beverages on draft, on tap or from kegs or other containers on the premises
described in the permit, unless approved by the rules and regulations of the
state Department of Health and Environmental Control (defined for purposes of
this chapter as “DHEC”), being S.C. Code §§ 44-1-20 to 44-1-315, governing
eating and drinking establishments and other retail food establishments.
(Prior Code, § 14.311)
§ 14.312  SAME; PERMIT AND HEALTH CERTIFICATE TO BE POSTED.
   Both the permit issued by the state and the certificate of approval issued
by DHEC shall be conspicuously posted on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 14.312)
§ 14.313  MANUFACTURE, SELL, BUY AND THE LIKE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
store, receive, transport, buy, sell, barter, exchange or deliver any
unlawfully manufactured alcoholic beverages in the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 14.313)
§ 14.314  UNLAWFUL PURCHASE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase or otherwise procure any
alcoholic liquor other than that purchased from licensed dealers within the
state.
(Prior Code, § 14.314)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
14.301
§ 14.315  UNLAWFUL TO CONSUME AT CERTAIN PLACES; PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages at
places where athletic contests are being conducted and on the grounds of a
school, church or business parking lot.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or have in his or her
possession beer, wine or liquor in an open container on the sidewalks, street,
alleyways, highways, roads or other public place within the corporate limits.
   c.   Possession of such container shall constitute prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
   d.   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the possession of beer,
wine or liquor in a closed container.
(Prior Code, § 14.315)
§ 14.316  UNSTAMPED LIQUOR CONTRABAND.
   Alcoholic liquors not having affixed to the bottle or container the stamps
required by law, found in the possession of anyone, are declared to be
contraband and may be seized by any law enforcement officer without a warrant.
(Prior Code, § 14.316)
ARTICLE IV: MUSICAL DEVICES; ENTERTAINMENTS
Section
   
14.401   Radios, phonographs, musical instruments and other sound-amplifying
devices
   
14.402   Same; operated loudly
   
14.403   Disturbance at entertainments, gatherings and the like
   
14.404   Amusement places to have entrances opening onto street
   
14.405   Prohibiting the use of handheld electronic communication devices
Cross-reference:
   Advertising noises, see
Chapter 15, Article IV
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from the town’s questionnaire number 62 and from
generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 14.401  RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER SOUND- AMPLIFYING
DEVICES.
   a.   Disturbing the public generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain and operate in any building or on any premises in the town any radio
device or mechanical musical instrument or device of any kind whereby the sound
therefrom is cast directly upon the public streets and places in such a manner
as to create unreasonably loud, excessive or disturbing noises and where such
device is maintained and operated for advertising purposes or for the purpose
of attracting the attention of the passing public or which is so placed and
operated that the sounds coming therefrom would cause the annoyance or
inconvenience of travelers upon any street, park or public place or of persons
on neighboring premises.
   b.   Disturbing persons in hotel or dwelling. It shall be unlawful for any
person to play any radio, phonograph or musical instrument in such a manner or
with such volume, particularly between 11:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel or other
type of residence.
   c.   Creating public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate, or cause or permit to be operated, any instrument or sound-producing
or sound-amplifying device so loudly as to unreasonably disturb persons in the
vicinity thereof in such a manner as renders the instrument or device a public
nuisance.
   d.   Permit for special occasions. Upon application to the Town Council,
permits may be granted to responsible organizations to broadcast programs of
music, speeches or general entertainment as a part and in recognition of the
community or town events, public festivities, provided that traffic on the
streets is not obstructed by reason thereof.
(S.C. Code §§ 2-2088 – 2-2091)  (Prior Code, § 14.401)
§ 14.402  SAME; OPERATED LOUDLY.
   It shall be unlawful to operate at any time, any musical device of any
nature, however operated, that is operated so loudly as to make a noise to
disturb the repose of the community; provided, that this section shall not
prohibit the operation of a radio, television, electronic games or other
instruments in the home which are so operated as not to disturb the peace.
(Prior Code, § 14.402)
§ 14.403  DISTURBANCE AT ENTERTAINMENTS, GATHERINGS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to behave disorderly in any public hall
or other place of amusement, entertainment or gathering or to enter the same in
a drunken condition or to interrupt any play, performance, lecture,
entertainment or service therein or any player, speaker or other person taking
part therein.
(Prior Code, § 14.403)
§ 14.404  AMUSEMENT PLACES TO HAVE ENTRANCES OPENING ONTO STREET.
   All places of public amusements, for safety purposes, shall have entrances
that open onto a public street.
(Prior Code, § 14.404)
Cross-reference:
   Unreasonable noises, see §
14.709
§ 14.405  PROHIBITING THE USE OF HANDHELD ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICES.
   a.   Operation of handheld device while driving.
      1.   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in division a.2. below, no
person shall operate a vehicle on a public street or highway within the town
limits while using a handheld electronic communication device for the purpose
of texting, emailing or instant messaging.
      2.   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
         (a)   Any person using a handheld electronic communication device
while maintaining a vehicle in a stationary and parked position;
         (b)   Any person using a handheld electronic communication device for
voice communication while operating or using the vehicle;
         (c)   Any of the following persons while in the performance of their
official duties: a law enforcement officer, a firefighter, emergency medical
technician or other public safety official while in the performance of the
person’s official duties; or
         (d)   Any person using a handheld electronic communication device to
call 911 or other emergency telephone numbers to contact public safety forces.
   b.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. An electronic device used for the
purpose of composing, reading or sending an electronic message, but does not
include a global positioning system or navigation system or a device that is
physically or electronically integrated into the motor vehicle.
      ELECTRONIC MESSAGE. A self-contained piece of digital communication that
is designed or intended to be transmitted between physical devices. ELECTRONIC
MESSAGE includes, but is not limited to, electronic mail, a text message, an
instant message or a command or request to access an internet site.
   c.   Additional provisions.
      1.   Generally. It shall be unlawful for a person to use an electronic
communication device to compose, read or send an electronic message while
operating a motor vehicle on the streets and roads within the town.
      2.   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a person operating a
motor vehicle while:
         (a)   Off the traveled portion of a roadway;
         (b)   Using an electronic communication device in a hands free, voice-
activated or voice- operated mode that allows the driver to review, prepare and
transmit an electronic message without the use of either hand except to
activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function;
         (c)   Summoning medical or other emergency assistance; or
         (d)   Using a citizens band radio, commercial two-way radio
communication device, in- vehicle security or amateur or ham radio device.
   d.   Penalty. A person who violates this section is guilty of misdemeanor,
distracted driving and, upon conviction, shall be fined $100 for a first
offense, $200 for a second offense and $300 for a third or subsequent offense.
This fine is subject to all applicable court costs, assessments and surcharges.
   e.   Enforcement. Law enforcement officers must not:
      1.   Stop a person for violating this section unless the officer has
probable cause that a violation has occurred based on the officer’s clear and
unobstructed view of a person’s use of the handheld electronic communication
device while driving or operating a vehicle upon the public streets and
highways of the city. If an arresting officer has probable cause to believe
that the vehicle driver has violated this section, the officer may subpoena the
telephone records of that device. The arresting officer or the defendant may
admit as evidence, without providing a chain of custody, the telephone number
or texting information, or both, that are relevant to a violation of this
section; or
      2.   Seize or require the forfeiture of a handheld electronic
communication device because of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 8-4-2014)
ARTICLE V: GAMING OPERATIONS
Section
   
14.501   Regulation of gaming operation; applicability
   
14.502   Definition
   
14.503   Gambling prohibited; exceptions
   
14.504   Same; confiscation and destruction
   
14.505   Same; houses unlawful
   
14.506   Gambling devices; destruction
   
14.507   Maintaining faro bank, gaming table and the like
   
14.508   Same; winnings to be forfeited
Editor’s note:
   The state has made gambling for profit to the player illegal. This article
derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 14.501  REGULATION OF GAMING OPERATION; APPLICABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a gaming machine for financial profit to the
player. The provisions of this article shall apply to all gaming operations as
herein defined within the town.
(Prior Code, § 14.501)
§ 14.502  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAMING. Any business or other operation conducting business within the town
employing the use of legal mechanical or electronic devices. They may involve
the offer to redeem points, games, tokens or other similar credits won.
(Prior Code, § 14.502)
§ 14.503  GAMBLING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in gambling or games of
chance, to keep or operate, or permit to be kept or operated, any slot
machines, punchboard, tipboard or other device pertaining to games of chance or
whatsoever name or kind.
   b.   Exceptions shall include automatic weighing, measuring, musical and
vending machines which are so constructed as to give a certain uniform and fair
return in value for each coin or bill deposited therein, and in which there is
no element of chance, as may be permitted by state statutes.
(S.C. Code § 16-19-40)
   c.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, the conduct of bingo
and similar games shall be permitted within the town; provided, however, that
said games are:
      1.   Conducted solely by and under the supervision of a church, school or
other charitable, educational or eleemosynary institution;
      2.   The entire net proceeds from said game is applied directly to the
purposes of the institution or organization conducting the same;
      3.   No case prizes shall be awarded; and
      4.   Prior to the conduction of such games, a permit shall be applied for
and obtained from the Mayor and Council. The permit shall be issued only after
investigation discloses compliance with the foregoing conditions.
   d.   It shall be unlawful to operate any punchboard in the town where there
is any element of chance involved, or to raffle any article or thing, by
selling chances for same where value is not received for each and every chance
purchased, or to permit the use of any game of chance of any kind whatsoever,
where value received is not given to every person obtaining any such chance.
(Prior Code, § 14.503)
§ 14.504  SAME; CONFISCATION AND DESTRUCTION.
   a.   Upon the charging of any person of a violation of this article, it
shall be the duty of police officers to seize and take into possession any
gaming device, machines, punchboard, tipboard or other device of whatever name
or kind pertaining to games of chance.
   b.   Upon conviction, destruction of the gaming device of whatever name or
kind is hereby authorized by police officers.
(Prior Code, § 14.504)
§ 14.505  SAME; HOUSES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep or maintain a
gambling house or room or place where people resort to engage in gambling or
games of chance or to permit gambling or games of chance in any building on
their premises or under their control.
(Prior Code, § 14.505)
§ 14.506  GAMBLING DEVICES; DESTRUCTION.
   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 16-19-120, the Chief of Police is hereby vested with
the authority to destroy gambling or gaming devices of any kind whatsoever that
shall come into his or her possession and caused by a violation of state or
town gambling laws immediately after final disposition of a case, unless
otherwise directed by court order.
(Prior Code, § 14.506)
§ 14.507  MAINTAINING FARO BANK, GAMING TABLE AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall keep, operate or maintain at any place within the town any
faro bank, or bank of the same or like kind, or gaming table or other device
for gambling by whatsoever name it may be called, and any person found guilty
of a violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.507)
§ 14.508  SAME; WINNINGS TO BE FORFEITED.
   All and every sum of money staked, bet or pending on the event of any game
prohibited in this article is hereby declared to be forfeited to the General
Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 14.508)
ARTICLE VI: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY, DECENCY AND PUBLIC WELFARE
Section
   
14.601   Immoral purposes; solicitation; assignation; premises
   
14.602   Same; transportation of persons
   
14.603   Same; information or direction
   
14.604   Same; lease, use of places and the like
   
14.605   Adult clubs
   
14.606   Obscene material; display or sale
   
14.607   Indecent exposure; language
   
14.608   Peeping toms
   
14.609   Crime watch area; town designated
   
14.610   Disturbing the peace
   
14.611   Loitering
   
14.612   Same; violations
   
14.613   Public drunkenness
   
14.614   Intoxicating beverages; drinking in public
   
14.615   Interference with streets, sidewalks and the like
   
14.616   Spitting
   
14.617   School disturbances
   
14.618   Dance halls unlawful on Sundays
   
14.619   Fortune-telling
   
14.620   Begging; obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic
   
14.621   Drug paraphernalia prohibited
   
14.622   Bath salts and synthetic marijuana
Editor’s note:
   This article derives, in part, from the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws and
generally accepted municipal practices and appropriate state statutes.
§ 14.601  IMMORAL PURPOSES; SOLICITATION; ASSIGNATION; PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to invite, maintain or entice any person
upon any street, public square or enclosure to accompany, go with or follow
such person to any place for immoral purposes, or to incite, entice or address
any person from any door, window, porch or portico of any house or building, to
enter any house, go with or accompany such person to any place for immoral
purposes.
(S.C. Code §§ 16-15-90 et seq.)  (Prior Code, § 14.601)
§ 14.602  SAME; TRANSPORTATION OF PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, convey or assist by
aiding, abetting, encouraging, requesting or other, in transporting, carrying,
conveying in or accompanying by any ways and means whatsoever any person for
any immoral purpose.
(S.C. Code § 16-15-90)  (Prior Code, § 14.602)
§ 14.603  SAME; INFORMATION OR DIRECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give information about any house or
place for immoral purposes, whether the communication be by word of mouth, or
direction, telephone or in writing.
(S.C. Code § 16-15-90)  (Prior Code, § 14.603)
§ 14.604  SAME; LEASE, USE OF PLACES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, rent, use or occupy any place
for immoral purposes.
(S.C. Code § 15-43-10)  (Prior Code, § 14.604)
§ 14.605  ADULT CLUBS.
   a.   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADULT CLUBS. Businesses catering to adults for the purpose of exciting
its customers in a salacious manner.
   b.   Regulation. Such clubs are hereby declared unlawful in the town.
(Prior Code, § 14.605)
§ 14.606  OBSCENE MATERIAL; DISPLAY OR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or make any indecent, obscene or
profane writing or pictures, or to make, sell, exhibit or offer for sale any
indecent or lewd book, picture or anything of like character.
(S.C. Code §§ 14-25-90 and 16-15-305)  (Prior Code, § 14.606)
Cross-reference:
   Signs, banners and the like, see
Ch. 15, Art. II
§ 14.607  INDECENT EXPOSURE; LANGUAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any indecent exposure of his or
her person or to curse or use any obscene or indecent language or to permit
same on any of the streets, alleys or other public ways or places in the town.
(S.C. Code § 16-15-130)  (Prior Code, § 14.607)
§ 14.608  PEEPING TOMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the private property of
another to spy or look into the windows or doors of any building located on
private property; provided, this section does not apply to police officers in
the actual discharge of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 14.608)
§ 14.609  CRIME WATCH AREA; TOWN DESIGNATED.
   a.   The Town Council hereby declares the town to be a “Crime Watch Area”,
and hereby authorizes the placing of signs upon highway rights-of-way upon
highways entering the town designating the community as a “Crime Watch Area”.
   b.   Said signs shall be placed in accordance with the South Carolina
Department of Transportation (SCDOT) regulations as authorized by the Act of
the General Assembly dated May 20, 1981.
(S.C. Code § 57-3-110(11))  (Prior Code, § 14.609)
§ 14.610  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in such a
manner as to result in a disturbance of the peace to the inhabitants of the
town or to knowingly aid, assist or abet therein.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 14.610)
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see §
14.701
§ 14.611  LOITERING.
   As used in this section, the term LOITERING shall mean remaining idle in
essentially one location, spending time idly, loafing or walking around
aimlessly in a public place in such a manner as to:
   a.   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person;
   b.   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
   c.   Obstruct or hinder the free passage of vehicles or pedestrians;
   d.   Obstruct or interfere with any person lawfully in any public place;
   e.   Engage in begging;
   f.   Engage in gambling;
   g.   Engage in prostitution;
   h.   Solicit or engage in any business, trade or commercial transaction
unless specifically authorized or licensed to do so;
   i.   Unlawfully use or possess an unlawful drug; or
   j.   Unlawfully use or possess alcoholic beverages, beer or wine.
(Prior Code, § 14.611)
§ 14.612  SAME; VIOLATIONS.
   a.   Any person loitering in any public place as defined herein may be
ordered by any police officer to leave that place. Any person who shall refuse
to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a
violation of this section.
   b.   Nothing in this section shall be construed or enforced in such a manner
as to restrict freedom of speech, religion or association.
(Prior Code, § 14.612)
§ 14.613  PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   If shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance or disturbance upon
the public streets or in any public place in a drunken condition.
(S.C. Code § 16-17-530)  (Prior Code, § 14.613)
§ 14.614  INTOXICATING BEVERAGES; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drink any kind of
intoxicating alcoholic beverages on the streets, alleyways, highways or other
such public places.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-90)  (Prior Code, § 14.614)
§ 14.615  INTERFERENCE WITH STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute material, make any
solicitation, or conduct any transaction with any pedestrian or occupant of a
vehicle traveling or standing within that portion of a street set aside for
vehicular travel, including medians, islands and parking spaces.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any person while upon any public sidewalk to
accost or stop, or to attempt to accost or stop, persons passing by with the
thought of inducing them to enter any place where merchandise is sold, or to
solicit trade, business or patronage for any hotel, rooming house, eating
house, store or mercantile establishment, theater or motion picture theater,
shine parlor or other business of any kind or character whatsoever, or to
molest or seek, or attempt to molest, persons on such sidewalks by such
solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 14.615)
§ 14.616  SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any sidewalk or other
public place, or upon the floor, walls or any other part of any building or
room which is used by the public.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-90)  (Prior Code, § 14.616)
§ 14.617  SCHOOL DISTURBANCES.
   It shall be unlawful:
   a.   For any person willfully or unnecessarily to interfere with or to
disturb in any way or in any place the students or teachers of any school, to
loiter about such school premises or to act in an obnoxious manner thereon; or
   b.   For any person to enter upon any school premises or loiter around the
premises, except on business, without the permission of the principal or person
in charge.
(S.C. Code § 16-17-420)  (Prior Code, § 14.617)
§ 14.618  DANCE HALLS UNLAWFUL ON SUNDAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep open or operate any public dance
hall, or allow any person to continue thereat, between the hours of 12:00
midnight Saturday and 7:00 a.m. Monday, and all such places shall be and remain
closed to the public between such hours.
(Prior Code, § 14.618)
§ 14.619  FORTUNE-TELLING.
   It shall be unlawful, without a valid permit or license, to engage in the
business, trade or profession of fortune-telling, palmistry, phrenology,
clairvoyance or the prediction of future events by cards or other means or to
offer to tell fortunes or predict future events by palmistry, astrology,
clairvoyance, cards or other means as an inducement to promote some other
business, trade or profession.
(S.C. Code § 40-41-310)  (Prior Code, § 14.619)
§ 14.620  BEGGING; OBSTRUCTING PEDESTRIAN OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
   a.   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AGGRESSIVELY BEG. To beg with intent to intimidate another person into
giving money or goods.
      BEG. To ask for money or goods as a charity, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs or other means.
      OBSTRUCT PEDESTRIAN OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC. To walk, stand, sit, lie or
place an object in such a manner as to block passage by another person or
vehicle, or to require another person or a driver of a vehicle to take evasive
action to avoid physical contact. Acts authorized as an exercise of one’s
constitutional right to picket or to legally protest and acts authorized by a
permit issued pursuant to this article pertaining to parades and processions
shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view and includes
alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks
and streets open to the general public, including those that serve food or
drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or
dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
   b.   Begging and the like prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
within the town in any public place to aggressively beg or obstruct pedestrian
or vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 14.621)
Editor’s note:
   S.C. Code § 5-27-910 permits volunteer firefighters, charitable and
eleemosynary organizations in this state to solicit funds from motorists on
streets within the municipality with a permit.
§ 14.621  DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   a.   Distribution prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
advertise for sale, manufacture, possess, sell or deliver, or to possess with
the intent to deliver or sell drug paraphernalia.
   b.   Factors to consider. In determining whether an object is paraphernalia,
the following factors, in addition to all other relevant factors, shall be
considered:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      3.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      4.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of law; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to
a direct violation of law shall not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      5.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      6.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      7.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      8.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      9.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      10.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      11.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      12.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   c.   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Any instrument, device, article or contrivance used,
designed for use, or intended for use in ingesting, smoking, administering,
injecting or preparing marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine or other
controlled substances as defined and covered by S.C. Code Title 44, Chapter 53,
Poisons, Drugs, and Other Controlled Substances. This definition of DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA shall not include cigarette papers or tobacco pipes unless there
are extenuating circumstances such as, but not limited to, if residue of a
controlled substance is found on or in a pipe or if either the paper or pipe is
in close proximity to, or in the same container as, a controlled substance at
the time of discovery. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
marijuana or hashish pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish
heads or punctured metal bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes designed for use or intended for use with marijuana,
hashish, hashish oil or cocaine;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips;
         (f)   Separation gins designed for use or intended for use in cleaning
marijuana;
         (g)   Cocaine spoons and vials;
         (h)   Chamber pipes;
         (i)   Carburetor pipes;
         (j)   Electric pipes;
         (k)   Air-driven pipes;
         (l)   Chillums;
         (m)   Bongs;
         (n)   Ice pipes or chillers;
         (o)   Syringes;
         (p)   Heroin spoons; and
         (q)   Bottle caps.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 8-3-2009)
§ 14.622  BATH SALTS AND SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA.
   a.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      METHYLONE, MEPHEDRONE, METHYLMETHCATHINONE, FLUOROMETH- CATHINONE OR
METHYLEN DIOXPYROVALERON (MDPV), COLLECTIVELY “BATH SALTS”. Any material,
compound, mixture or preparation, whether produced directly or indirectly from
a substance of vegetable origin or independently by means of chemical synthesis
or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, that contains any
quantity of the following substances, or that contains any of the following
substances, analogs, salts, isomers and salts of isomers when the existence of
the analogs, salts, isomers and salts of isomers is possible within the
specific chemical designation: METHYLONE, MEPHEDRONE, METHOXYMETHCATHINONE,
FLUROROMETHCATHINONE OR METHYLENEDIOXYPYROVALERONE (MDPV).
      SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA. All chemical compounds intended to replicate, mimic
or cause a similar reaction to the effects of marijuana or cannabis. Such
compounds are known or marketed under such names as THC, HU-210
Cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH-073, K2, Spice, herbal incense, herbal
smoking blends and other names. Further, SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA shall be
considered an illegal narcotic.
   b.   Prohibition.
      1.   It is unlawful for a person to use, offer for use, purchase, offer
to purchase, sell, offer to sell, or possess synthetic marijuana and/or bath
salts unless prescribed by a licensed physician. Licensed health care provider,
pharmacists and medical, pharmaceutical or educational research facilities are
exempted from the prohibitions against using, possessing, selling or purchasing
bath salts when used, purchased, sold or possessed for patient treatment or
medical or pharmaceutical research.
      2.   It is unlawful to advertise the sale and/or use of bath salts and
synthetic marijuana in the corporated area of the town.
   c.   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to the penalty provisions of
Article XI of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 5-5-2014)
ARTICLE VII: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
   
14.701   Disorderly conduct defined
   
14.702   Weapons; exceptions
   
14.703   Same; concealed
   
14.704   Same; carrying knives
   
14.705   Same; destruction of
   
14.706   Discharge of firearms; dangerous devices; slingshots
   
14.707   Disruption of court, Town Council or religious services
   
14.708   Riots: instigating, aiding, participating
   
14.709   Noise; unreasonable prohibited
   
14.710   Failure to pay for food or other services at restaurant
   
14.711   Curfew
   
14.712   Trick or treat
   
14.713   Entertainment exceptions
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices,
appropriate state statutes and the town questionnaire No. 61.
§ 14.701  DISORDERLY CONDUCT DEFINED.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to conduct oneself in a disorderly manner with the
purpose to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly create a
risk thereof by:
      1.   Engaging in fighting, threatening, violent or tumultuous behavior,
breach of the peace;
      2.   Making unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture
or display, or addresses of abusive language to any person present;
      3.   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the act; or
      4.   Existence of any disorderly, lewd or indecent conduct by scurrilous,
obscene, indecent or profane writing, picture, mark or figure on any wall,
fence, house or structure.
   b.   For the purpose of this section PUBLIC means affecting or likely to
affect any person or persons in a place to which the public or a substantial
group has access; among the places included are highways, transport facilities,
schools, prisons, apartment houses, places of business or entertainment,
governmental buildings, any neighborhood, in automobiles and the like.
(S.C. Code §§ 16-17-530 and 17-25-110)  (Prior Code, § 14.701)
Cross-reference:
   Disturbing the peace, see §
14.610
§ 14.702  WEAPONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry about the person, whether
concealed or not, any pistol, except as follows:
   a.   Any person carrying a permit issued by lawful authority, pursuant to
state statutes;
   b.   Marshals, sheriffs, police officers or other law enforcement officers,
or peace officers of the federal government or other states when they are
carrying out official duties while in this state;
   c.   Members of the Armed Forces of the United States or of the National
Guard, organized reserves or the state militia when on duty;
   d.   Members of organizations authorized by law to purchase or receive
firearms from the United States or this state, or regularly enrolled members of
clubs organized for the purpose of target shooting or collecting modern and
antique firearms while the members are at or going to or from their places of
target practice, or their shows and exhibits;
   e.   Licensed hunters or fishermen while engaged in hunting or fishing;
   f.   Any person regularly engaged in the business of manufacturing,
repairing, repossession or dealing in firearms, or the agent or representative
of that person while possessing, using or carrying a pistol in the usual or
ordinary course of business;
   g.   Guards of common carriers, banks and other financial institutions while
engaged in that capacity and guards engaged in protection of property of the
United States or any agency thereof;
   h.   Any authorized military or civil organizations while parading or the
members thereof when going to and from the places of meeting of their
respective organizations;
   i.   Any person in his or her home, or upon his or her real property, or
fixed place of business;
   j.   Any person in any vehicle where the pistol is secured in a closed glove
compartment or closed trunk;
   k.   Any person carrying a pistol unloaded and in a secure wrapper from the
place of purchase to his or her home or fixed place of business or while in the
process of the changing or moving of one’s residence or the changing or moving
of one’s fixed place of business; and
   l.   Any night watchman while engaged in his or her duties as a night
watchman.
(Prior Code, § 14.702)
§ 14.703  SAME; CONCEALED.
   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess or
carry concealed about his or her person any dirk, metal knuckles, razor, ice
pick or other weapon usually used for the infliction of personal injuries.
(S.C. Code § 16-23-460)  (Prior Code, § 14.703)
§ 14.704  SAME; CARRYING KNIVES.
   a.   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry about his or her
person, whether concealed or not, any dirk, slingshot, metal knuckles, razor or
other weapon usually used for the infliction of personal injury or injuries.
      2.   This section shall not apply to peace officers while in the
discharge of their duties.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to possess or
conceal upon his or her person any knife, measuring seven inches or greater in
length either when opened or unopened, or any switchblade knife.
   c.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale or possess
a switchblade knife within the town.
      1.   For the purposes of this section, the term SWITCHBLADE KNIFE shall
mean any knife having a blade which opens automatically, by hand pressure
applied to a button or other device in the handle of the knife, by operation or
inertia, gravity or both.
      2.   This section does not apply to pocket knives which, when open, do
not exceed five and one- half inches in overall length.
(S.C. Code § 16-23-405)  (Prior Code, § 14.704)
§ 14.705  SAME; DESTRUCTION OF.
   All instruments, devices and objects which are seized after the effective
date of the ordinance from which this article is derived on condemnation as
being distributed or possessed in violation of this article may be destroyed by
the municipality only after compliance with the following procedure: within 15
days after conviction for a violation of this article or within 90 days from
the date of acquisition of all instruments, devices and objects described in
this article by the Police Department, the items seized under this article are
to be destroyed, unless such items are to be used as evidence in cases before a
superior court, or those items are considered suitable for public display by
the Police Department in education programs.
(Prior Code, § 14.705)
§ 14.706  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS; DANGEROUS DEVICES; SLINGSHOTS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to point at or discharge or cause
to be discharged at any person any loaded or unloaded firearm of any kind.
   b.   It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits, to fire, aim or
discharge any air rifle, pellet rifle, sling shot or other device, in any
manner, which may be intentionally used to harm any person or property.
   c.   Nothing contained herein, however, shall be construed to abridge the
right of self-defense, to apply to theatricals or like performances or to peace
officers in the discharge of their duties.
   d.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use slingshots on any public
place within the town.
(Prior Code, § 14.706)
§ 14.707  DISRUPTION OF COURT, TOWN COUNCIL OR RELIGIOUS SERVICES.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt the proceedings of the
court, Town Council or any other official public meeting, including religious
services, or be guilty of disorderly conduct therein or to commit any contempt
of thereof.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously
disturb or interrupt any meeting, society, assembly or congregation, convened
for the purpose of religious worship, or to enter such meeting while in a state
of intoxication or otherwise, or to use or sell spirituous liquors or to use
blasphemous language, at or near the place of worship or meeting.
   c.   Any person who shall interrupt or disturb any audience or other group
of people who may be assembled in any place of amusement by any noise or loud
talking, indecent behavior or other annoyance which may in any manner interfere
with good order and decorum, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-17-520)  (Prior Code, § 14.707)
§ 14.708  RIOTS: INSTIGATING, AIDING, PARTICIPATING.
   Any person, upon conviction of engaging in a riot, rout or affray when no
weapon was actually used and no wound inflicted, shall be subject to and liable
for each offense as a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code §§ 16-5-120 and 16-5-130)  (Prior Code, § 14.708)
§ 14.709  NOISE; UNREASONABLE PROHIBITED.
   a.   The creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises and noises of such character, intensity and duration as are reasonably
calculated to be detrimental to the life or health of any ordinary, reasonable
person are hereby prohibited.
   b.   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section; provided, however, that
such enumeration shall not be construed to be exclusive of other noises:
      1.   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, streetcar or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or
if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      2.   The playing of any radio, phonograph or any musical instrument in
such manner, or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as to create a noise such as is reasonably calculated to
disturb a person of ordinary disposition under the same or similar
circumstances residing in a dwelling or other type of residence in the
vicinity;
      3.   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar or vehicle so out
of repair so loaded or operated in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary
noises such as spinning or squealing tires, grating, grinding, rattling or
other noise;
      4.   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      5.   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal- combustion engine, motor vehicle or boat engine except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      6.   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, except
pneumatic drills, unless the noise thereby created is effectively muffled and
reduced;
      7.   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday noon to 7:00 p.m.
Sunday, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety,
and then only with a permit from the Clerk/Treasurer, which permit may be
renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency continues;
      8.   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session, which
unreasonably interferes with the working of such institution, provided
conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a
school, institution or court street;
      9.   The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      10.   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which is reasonably calculated to disturb a person of ordinary
disposition if such person were in the vicinity thereof, provided, however,
that this division b.10. shall not apply to houses of worship;
      11.   The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which
disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      12.   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale of merchandise;
      13.   The use of loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other vehicles,
except where specific license is granted by Town Council;
      14.   The operation of any garage, service station, auto repair business,
taxi business, plant, store, factory or other place of business, between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner as to create loud and disturbing
noises, as to annoy or disturb the quiet and comfort of any citizen, and
particularly the creating of disturbing noises as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort, peace or repose of any person in any dwelling, hotel, boarding
house or other type of residence;
      15.   The starting of a motor vehicle engine of any kind using excessive
acceleration or creating loud noises, or at any time to commence or continue
the movement of any such vehicle with the spinning of tires or any other
excessive noise; and/or
      16.   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the
vicinity.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 14.709)
Cross-reference:
   Musical devices, see §
14.401
Editor’s note:
   See Morrison v. Rawlinson. 193 S.C. 25, S.E. 2d 635 (1940)
§ 14.710  FAILURE TO PAY FOR FOOD OR OTHER SERVICES AT RESTAURANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a guest at any restaurant, café or
eating establishment within the corporate limits of the town to intentionally
abscond without paying for food or other services obtained therein.
(Prior Code, § 14.710)
§ 14.711  CURFEW.
   a.   Any youth 16 years or under shall not be on the streets within the town
limits after 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m., unless accompanied by a parent.
   b.   Failure to adhere to this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.711)
§ 14.712  TRICK OR TREAT.
   The hours from 6:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. shall be utilized for purposes of
“trick or treat” during Halloween on public property.
(Prior Code, § 14.712)
§ 14.713  ENTERTAINMENT EXCEPTIONS.
   Entertainment functions to be held inside the town limits that might cause
excess noise or any disturbance shall first be approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.713)
ARTICLE VIII: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
14.801   Malicious mischief
   
14.802   Damaging property
   
14.803   Failure to leave premises when ordered
   
14.804   Petit larceny defined
   
14.805   Stolen goods
   
14.806   Trespassing; private property
   
14.807   Securing property by fraudulent impersonation of officer
   
14.808   Shoplifting
   
14.809   Advertising matter; painting; printing on sidewalks and the like
   
14.810   Public events; gaining admission without payment
   
14.811   Breaking into motor vehicle; storage tanks
   
14.812   Bad checks; unlawful to issue; penalty
   
14.813   Fences: removing, destroying or leaving down
   
14.814   Property to be returned to town
   
14.815   Town machinery, other property
   
14.816   Junkyards
   
14.817   Nuisances: creating, maintaining or permitting
   
14.818   Offenses committed on municipal property outside town limits
   
14.819   Obtaining property by fraud
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from appropriate state statutes and generally accepted
municipal practices.
§ 14.801  MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously destroy or
in any manner injure any property, real or personal, public or private, not his
or her own within the town.
(Prior Code, § 14.801)
§ 14.802  DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   Any person or persons who shall damage any goods, wares or merchandise, or
other personal property of another person, or any public property, or who shall
damage or destroy any fencing, trees, shrubbery or buildings on the land of
another or belonging to any other person or persons, upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code §§ 16-11-510 and 16-11-520)  (Prior Code, § 14.802)
§ 14.803  FAILURE TO LEAVE PREMISES WHEN ORDERED.
   Any person or persons who, when requested to leave the premises of another
or the house wherein any one or more persons shall conduct business (except
offices of public officers), shall refuse to do so, upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-11-620)  (Prior Code, § 14.803)
Editor’s note:
   See State v. Hanapole. 255 S.C. 258, 178 S.E. 2d 247 (1970)
§ 14.804  PETIT LARCENY DEFINED.
   a.   Definition. For the purpose of this article, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PETIT LARCENY. Any article of goods, choses in action, bank bills, bills
receivable, chattels or other article of personalty of which, by law, larceny
may be committed or of any such fixture or part or product of the soil, severed
from the soil by an unlawful act, or has a value of $1,000.
   b.   Prohibited. The act shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-13-30)  (Prior Code, § 14.804)
§ 14.805  STOLEN GOODS.
   Any person who shall buy, receive or have in his or her possession any goods
or chattels or other property, knowing the same to have been stolen, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code §§ 16-13-180 and 16-13-240)  (Prior Code, § 14.805)
§ 14.806  TRESPASSING; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   For the purposes of this section, PRIVATE PROPERTY shall mean the house and
land surrounding the house, either owned or rented or occupied by any person.
Every entry upon the lands of another where any horse, mule, cow, hog or any
other livestock is pastured, or any other lands of another, after notice from
the owner or tenant prohibiting such entry, shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.806)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-11, as amended.
§ 14.807  SECURING PROPERTY BY FRAUDULENT IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   Whoever, with intent to defraud any government, firm or person, shall take
upon himself or herself to act as an officer or shall in such pretension or
pretended character demand, obtain or receive from any government, firm or
person any money, paper, document or other valuable thing of a value less than
$20, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-13-290)  (Prior Code, § 14.807)
§ 14.808  SHOPLIFTING.
   Shoplifting is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-13-110)  (Prior Code, § 14.808)
§ 14.809  ADVERTISING MATTER; PAINTING; PRINTING ON SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   a.   No person shall print, paint or in any other way deface the sidewalks,
streets or other public property of the town for advertising or other purposes.
   b.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit SCDOT or any
department of the town from marking the sidewalks or streets for the purpose of
controlling traffic or for other town purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14.809)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see
Chapter 15 of this code.
§ 14.810  PUBLIC EVENTS; GAINING ADMISSION WITHOUT PAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   a.   Where an admission charge is made, to gain admittance to any athletic
contest or other public event, without paying the price of admission;
   b.   Unless upon his or her own premises, to witness an athletic contest or
other public event, where an admission is charged, without paying the price of
said admission; or
   c.   To aid, abet or assist in any way any other person to witness any
athletic contest or other public event without said person paying the admission
charge.
(Prior Code, § 14.810)
§ 14.811  BREAKING INTO MOTOR VEHICLE; STORAGE TANKS.
   a.   Whoever shall break or attempt to break into any motor vehicle or any
compartment thereof, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Whoever shall break or attempt to break any tank, pump or other vessel,
where kerosene, gasoline or lubricating oil is stored or kept, with intent to
steal any such product therein contained, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.811)
§ 14.812  BAD CHECKS; UNLAWFUL TO ISSUE; PENALTY.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to draw, make, issue or deliver fraudulent checks
to another person, firm or corporation.
   b.   A collection fee of $25 will be assessed for each such check.
(S.C. Code § 34-11-60)  (Prior Code, § 14.812)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
8.111, this code.
§ 14.813  FENCES: REMOVING, DESTROYING OR LEAVING DOWN.
   Any person other than the owner who shall remove, destroy or leave down any
portion of any fence intended to enclose animals of any kind, crop or
uncultivated lands or who shall leave open any gate or leave down any bars or
other structure intended for a like purpose, upon conviction, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.813)
§ 14.814  PROPERTY TO BE RETURNED TO TOWN.
   Upon leaving town employment or any town office, it shall be unlawful for
any employee or official, including volunteers, to fail to return to the town
any town property or equipment issued to him or her, including this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14.814)
§ 14.815  TOWN MACHINERY, OTHER PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to handle or use any engine, tool,
machinery or vehicle belonging to the town, or any part used therewith, without
permission of the official in charge.
(Prior Code, § 14.815)
§ 14.816  JUNKYARDS.
   Junkyards shall not be permitted within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 14.816)
§ 14.817  NUISANCES: CREATING, MAINTAINING OR PERMITTING.
   a.   Nuisances prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain
or to permit to be maintained any premises, including vacant lots or land, upon
which any condition exists which constitutes a nuisance, eyesore or health or
safety hazard. Such prohibited conditions shall include, but not be limited to,
the accumulation of trash, abandoned or unusual personal property, garbage,
offal, stagnant water or building materials.
   b.   Owners to be informed. It shall be the duty of the town’s Police
Department to summon the owner of any premises upon which any prohibited
condition exists and if, after fully investigating the matter, the town’s
police shall find such premises in a prohibited condition, the town’s police
shall issue a written order or notice directed to the owner, directing and
requiring such owner within a certain specified time, not less than ten days,
to clear such premises in order to abate the prohibited condition.
   c.   Abatement; liens against the property. Should any property owner, after
the required notice, fail to remedy the prohibited condition of such owner’s
property, the municipality, through its agents, servants or employees, may
enter such property and take whatever steps are necessary to remedy the
unlawful condition of such property and the reasonable costs thereof shall
become a lien against the property, as provided by the International Property
Maintenance Code, as adopted. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order, upon approval of Town Council, the Town Council may order
that the structure be demolished or removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons and that the
reasonable cost thereof shall become a lien against the property, as provided
by the International Property Maintenance Code, as adopted.
(Prior Code, § 14.817)  (Ord. 1990-1114, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 06-0101,
passed 2-8-2006; Ord. 2016-05, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 14.818  OFFENSES COMMITTED ON MUNICIPAL PROPERTY OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   Any person committing any offense in, at or upon lands owned by the town or
leased to the town outside the limits of the town shall be deemed and
considered as committing an offense against the provisions of this code and
other ordinances of the town and shall be triable for such offense in the
municipal court in the same manner and to the same extent as other offenders
against such provisions and such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14.818)
§ 14.819  OBTAINING PROPERTY BY FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain, or get into his or her hands
or his or her possession, any money, good, chattels, jewels or other property
of any other person by color and means of any false token, fraud or false
representation.
(Prior Code, § 14.819)
ARTICLE IX: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
Section
   
14.901   Assault and battery
   
14.902   Pointing pistol or gun at any person
   
14.903   Unlawful to throw object injuring person or damaging property
   
14.904   Definitions
   
14.905   Same; abandonment prohibited; latches, locks to be removed
   
14.906   Responsibility for compliance
   
14.907   Inspection of premises
   
14.908   Interpretation of article
   
14.909   Wells, open pits prohibited
Editor’s note:
   This article derives generally from S.C. Code § 16-3 and generally accepted
municipal practices.
§ 14.901  ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or assaults and
battery upon any other person. This section shall not apply to any person using
such force as shall be necessary in ejecting an invader from his or her
premises in the protection of his or her property.
(S.C. Code § 16-3-600)  (Prior Code, § 14.901)
§ 14.902  POINTING PISTOL OR GUN AT ANY PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to point at any other person any loaded
or unloaded firearm. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to abridge the
right of self-defense or to apply to theatrical or like performances or to
peace officers in the discharge of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 14.902)
§ 14.903  UNLAWFUL TO THROW OBJECT INJURING PERSON OR DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any stone, stick or other
object whereby any person may be, or shall be, hit or hurt, or any window
broken, or other property belonging to another damaged or destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 14.903)
§ 14.904  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. The throwing away on vacant property, junk heaps, trash piles or
debris accumulations of an icebox, refrigerator or other closed cabinet, box,
device or any other act which would constitute an abandonment thereof.
   DANGEROUS EXPOSURE OR ACCESS. The placing of an icebox, refrigerator, closed
cabinet or device not in use in a garage, barn, outbuilding, porch, yard, lot
or other portion of premises where children or other persons may come upon it
and may be attracted to it.
(Prior Code, § 14.904)
§ 14.905  SAME; ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED; LATCHES, LOCKS TO BE REMOVED.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, dangerously expose or
afford access to, or cause or permit to be abandoned or dangerously exposed or
access afforded to any icebox, refrigerator or other closed cabinet, box or
device, unless the door thereto has been removed from such icebox, refrigerator
or other closed cabinet, box or device or unless the latch or lock holding each
door thereof shut is dismantled or removed so that the door may be opened by
any child person from within by simply pushing on it.
   b.   Jamming or obstructing the lock or latch shall not be sufficient
compliance with this section.
   c.   The lock or latch must be removed or dismantled so that accidental
latching or locking is impossible.
   d.   This prohibition shall apply to and include any such box, cabinet or
device, including the above, which seals off or impeded the free circulation of
air in and through the interior of the box, cabinet or device.
(Prior Code, § 14.905)
§ 14.906  RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The duty of complying with the provisions of this article is imposed alike
on the owner of the icebox, refrigerator, closed cabinet or device and the
owner or any occupant of the premises where an abandonment or dangerous
exposure or access occurs.
(Prior Code, § 14.906)
§ 14.907  INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The Chief of Police and the Fire Chief shall have full power and authority
to inspect any and all premises located within the town limits for the purpose
of enforcing the terms of this article.
(Prior Code, § 14.907)
§ 14.908  INTERPRETATION OF ARTICLE.
   The provisions of this article shall be liberally construed to effect the
remedy intended and prevent loss of lives of children and other persons.
(Prior Code, § 14.908)
§ 14.909  WELLS, OPEN PITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant to permit or allow any
abandoned well or pit to remain open and unprotected on any place or premises
owned or occupied by such person.
(S.C. Code § 16-3-1020)  (Prior Code, § 14.909)
ARTICLE X: PARADES; DEMONSTRATING; PICKETING
Section
   
14.1001   Parades; picketing; demonstrations
   
14.1002   Permit required; issuance
   
14.1003   Imposition of restrictions
   
14.1004   Appeals
Editor’s note:
   This article has been inserted from court decisions and generally accepted
municipal practices.
§ 14.1001  PARADES; PICKETING; DEMONSTRATIONS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to parade, picket or march unless permission has
been secured from the town. Those desiring same shall make application, duly
signed by the individual organizer or by an officer of the organization, and
submit it unto the Clerk/Treasurer not less than seven days prior to the time
of such parade. The application shall state the time, duration, purpose, the
number of persons or vehicles to be engaged, the area in which said picketing,
parading or marching will occur and the individual, group of individuals or
organization directing and responsible for said picketing, parading or
marching.
   b.   When picketing or engaging in demonstrations, no person shall:
      1.   Use on the streets or public places any verbal abuse, including
curses, insults or threats, or acts of violence, directed against any person;
      2.   March, parade, protest or picket in any manner other than as
permitted by this article, except with the express written consent and approval
of the Town Council;
      3.   Engage in riotous conduct which invades the privacy of homes or
businesses;
      4.   Damage or destroy or injure the person or property of others;
      5.   Block, without a permit, in any manner, the streets and means of
ingress and egress to places of business;
      6.   Interfere with, in any manner, or obstruct any official in the
performance of his or her duties;
      7.   Interfere in any matter with the attendance, during school hours, of
children in schools;
      8.   Picket other than in accordance with the following principles:
         (a)   In a manner so as not to interfere with pedestrians or vehicular
traffic;
         (b)   In a manner so as not to block entrances or exits to or from
picketed establishments;
         (c)   No picket trespassing upon the property of the business
establishment being picketed;
         (d)   Pickets patrolling on the sidewalk at a distance of not less
than eight feet from every other picket; or
         (e)   No person or persons, whether in sympathy with the pickets or
not, shall assemble, loiter, congregate or engage in any kind of picketing of
the establishment being picketed except those picketing in their official
capacity.
      9.   Demonstrate, other than in accordance with the following principles:
         (a)   Walking not more than two abreast upon the public sidewalks or
in groups of not more than 30 persons;
         (b)   Observe all traffic-control devices;
         (c)   Walking close to the building line or curb so as not to
interfere with or obstruct other pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk; and
         (d)   Assemble peacefully and speak peacefully for a period of time
not exceeding 30 minutes and when traffic to and from places of business or
employment is not at its peak, and in such circumstances as will not unduly
disrupt the public peace, and conducted in such a manner as not to deprive the
public of adequate police and fire protection.
   c.   This section shall not apply to funeral processions, the United States
Armed Forces or the military forces of this state.
(Prior Code, § 14.1001)
Editor’s note:
   See §
18.501, this code, for other funeral processions.
§ 14.1002  PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a permit for a parade, procession or
gathering, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a permit therefor, subject to
considerations of the public convenience and public welfare.
(Prior Code, § 14.1002)
§ 14.1003  IMPOSITION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   a.   The Clerk/Treasurer shall have the authority to impose such
restrictions, conditions and safeguards upon the conduct of a parade,
procession or public gathering as he or she shall deem fit or proper,
consistent with this article.
   b.   Masked faces or organizations practicing discrimination against anyone
shall not be permitted to assemble or parade in the town.
(Prior Code, § 14.1003)
§ 14.1004  APPEALS.
   Appeals shall be made to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.1004)
ARTICLE XI: PENALTIES
Section
   
14.1101   Misdemeanor
   
14.1102   Adoption of criminal laws of State of South Carolina
   
14.1103   Parties to a crime
   
14.1104   Plea of guilty or nolo contendere or forfeiture of bail same as
conviction
   
14.1105   Penalty
§ 14.1101  MISDEMEANOR.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 14.1101)
§ 14.1102  ADOPTION OF CRIMINAL LAWS OF STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
   All acts and conduct that constitute violation of the common law and
statutory law, as set forth in the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, and
amendatory thereof, are hereby declared unlawful, when such acts, conduct or
violations occur, insofar as such provisions and violations can have
application and the punishment of which is within the jurisdiction of the Town
Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.1102)
§ 14.1103  PARTIES TO A CRIME.
   a.   Every person who, whether present or absent, commits, attempts to
commit, conspires to commit or aids or abets in the commission of any act
violating any provision of this code, whether individually or in connection
with one or more other persons or as a principal, agent or accessory, shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of such violation.
   b.   Every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or willfully induces,
causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs another to violate any such
provisions, upon conviction, shall be guilty of such offense.
(Prior Code, § 14.1103)
§ 14.1104  PLEA OF GUILTY OR NOLO CONTENDERE OR FORFEITURE OF BAIL SAME AS
CONVICTION.
   The entry of any plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of any
bail posted for the violation of any provision of this code or for the
violation of any other law or municipal ordinance shall have the same effect as
a conviction after trial under such provisions.
(Prior Code, § 14.1104)
§ 14.1105  PENALTY.
   a.   Any person, persons, firm, company, representative of any firm or
company and otherwise violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, unless otherwise provided.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both, unless otherwise provided.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 14.1105); Postings; Advertising
CHAPTER 15: SOLICITING; POSTINGS; ADVERTISING
   Article
      
I.   SOLICITING
      
II.   POSTINGS, SIGNS, BANNERS AND THE LIKE
      
III.   PEDDLERS
      
IV.   ADVERTISING NOISES
      
V.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: SOLICITING
Section
   
15.101   Types prohibited
   
15.102   Use of streets for sales and distribution prohibited
   
15.103   Appeals
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices to assist
in local enforcement.
§ 15.101  TYPES PROHIBITED.
   Unless approved by the Clerk/Treasurer, it shall be unlawful:
   a.   For the operator, owner or manager of any rooming, boarding or lodging
house, restaurant, café, tea room, lunch room or storage garage, hereafter
called establishment, to employ or use any person or persons to solicit patrons
therefor, by going upon the streets and accosting pedestrians or occupants of
vehicles, either verbally or by means of signs or any other device whatsoever;
and
   b.   For any person acting as agent of any said establishment to accost
pedestrians or occupants of motor vehicles upon the streets, either verbally,
by means of signs or any other device whatsoever, to solicit such persons to
become occupants or patrons thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15.101)
§ 15.102  USE OF STREETS FOR SALES AND DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   Unless approved by the Clerk/Treasurer, it shall be unlawful for any person
or group of persons to sell, solicit sales or offer for distribution any
merchandise, publication, handbill or pamphlet while such person is standing in
the street, areas reserved for parking spaces, the areas reserved for loading
and unloading or to enter any of said areas for the purpose of sale and/or
delivery of any said items.
(Prior Code, § 15.102)
§ 15.103  APPEALS.
   Appeals shall be made to the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 15.103)
ARTICLE II: POSTINGS, SIGNS, BANNERS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
15.201   Public and private property; political signs
   
15.202   Municipal or state signs
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 15.201  PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY; POLITICAL SIGNS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, notice or sign of any
nature on public property within the corporate limits without prior approval of
the Clerk/Treasurer, or on any private property without prior approval of the
owner thereof. The above shall include a banner, canvas, placard, picture,
paper, circular, printed matter or any other similar means or device
whatsoever.
   b.   It shall be unlawful to post political signs of any nature on public
property, without prior approval of the Clerk/Treasurer, including, but not
limited to, power poles, telephone poles, street signs and the like.
(Prior Code, § 15.201)
§ 15.202  MUNICIPAL OR STATE SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to remove, tear
down, deface or destroy any sign erected by municipal or state authorities.
(Prior Code, § 15.203)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
14.809.
ARTICLE III: PEDDLERS
Section
   
15.301   Definition
   
15.302   Peddler refusing to leave
   
15.303   Hours of operation
   
15.304   Sale of goods on streets, parking lots
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 15.301  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Includes any person who shall go from house to house or from place
to place in the town soliciting, selling or taking orders for or offering for
sale or to take orders from any goods, wares, merchandise, services,
photographs, newspapers, magazines or subscriptions to newspapers or magazines.
The word PEDDLER shall also include all peddlers as they may be otherwise
defined and all solicitors, hawkers, canvassers, itinerant or transient
merchants or vendors of goods, wares, merchandise or services as the same may
commonly be defined by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15.301)
§ 15.302  PEDDLER REFUSING TO LEAVE.
   Any peddler or hawker of goods or merchandise who enters upon premises owned
or leased by another and willfully refuses to leave those premises after having
been notified by the owner or possessor of the premises, or his or her agent,
to leave the same shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15.302)
§ 15.303  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to engage in the business of peddling
between the hours of one- half hour before sunset and 9:00 a.m. the following
morning; or at any time on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 15.303)
§ 15.304  SALE OF GOODS ON STREETS, PARKING LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or peddle
goods, wares or merchandise upon the public streets or public parking lots in
the town.
(Prior Code, § 15.304)
ARTICLE IV: ADVERTISING NOISES
Section
   
15.401   Loudspeakers; musical instruments for advertising purposes
   
15.402   Noise making for other purposes
   
15.403   Same; church bells excepted
Cross-reference:
   Noises from musical devices, see
Chapter 14, Article IV.
   Unreasonable noise, see §
14.711.
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 15.401  LOUDSPEAKERS; MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS FOR ADVERTISING PURPOSES.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain and operate in any
building or on any premises any radio device or mechanical musical instrument
or device of any kind whereby the sound therefrom is cast directly upon the
public streets and places in a manner as to create unreasonably loud, excessive
and disturbing noise.
   b.   This shall include any device that is or may be maintained and operated
for advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting the attention of the
passing public.
   c.   Also, any device so placed and operated that the sounds coming
therefrom can be heard to the annoyance or inconvenience of travelers upon any
street or public place or of persons in neighboring premises.
(Prior Code, § 15.401)
§ 15.402  NOISE MAKING FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any noise upon a public
street or in proximity thereto as to be distinctly and loudly audible upon the
street by any kind.
   b.   This shall include, but not be limited to, crying, calling or shouting,
or any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical
instrument or other device for any purpose of attracting attention or of
inviting patronage of any persons to any business whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 15.402)
§ 15.403  SAME; CHURCH BELLS EXCEPTED.
   This article shall not apply to the ringing of church bells by established
places of worship.
(Prior Code, § 15.403)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
14.709.b.10.
ARTICLE V: PENALTIES
Section
   
15.501   Penalty; exceptions
§ 15.501  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 15.501)
CHAPTER 16: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   UNLAWFUL ACTS
      
III.   EXCAVATIONS
      
IV.   LITTERING
      
V.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
16.101   Maintenance and construction; exceptions
   
16.102   Jurisdiction; naming
   
16.103   Town map
   
16.104   Sidewalks; adjacent property owners to keep clear
   
16.105   Same; parking prohibited; exceptions
   
16.106   Survey markers required for new streets
Cross-reference:
   For house numbering, see §
5.301.
Editor’s note:
   This chapter derives from portions of S.C. Code Title 5, Chapter 27 and
generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 16.101  MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   The Council shall approve the construction and maintenance of streets
and roads in the town.
   b.   This article shall not apply to streets under the supervision and
control of SCDOT or the county.
(Prior Code, § 16.101)
§ 16.102  JURISDICTION; NAMING.
   a.   All streets now in existence and any new proposed streets now within
the town limits or any other streets that are now connected with any streets
within the town shall be within the control and jurisdiction of the Council.
   b.   No person shall have authority to name any street, without written
approval of the Mayor and Council.
   c.   Should a builder, contractor or individual violate this section, he or
she shall have his or her license revoked that shall remain revoked until this
section has been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 16.102)
§ 16.103  TOWN MAP.
   a.   The official map of the town, when prepared, shall be kept in the
office of the Town Clerk.
   b.   The names of said streets shall be as shown on said map, and new
streets accepted by the town hereafter shall likewise be included.
(Prior Code, § 16.103)
§ 16.104  SIDEWALKS; ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS TO KEEP CLEAR.
   It shall be the duty of all owners of real estate within the corporate
limits to keep the sidewalks adjoining their real estate clear and free from
grass, weeds, trash and garbage.
(Prior Code, § 18.104)
§ 16.105  SAME; PARKING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on any sidewalk.
   b.   Exceptions may be made when it is necessary to avoid traffic or when
directed by a law enforcement officer or a traffic-control device.
(S.C. Code § 56-5-2530)  (Prior Code, § 16.105)
§ 16.106  SURVEY MARKERS REQUIRED FOR NEW STREETS.
   a.   In order to avoid disputes which may arise concerning the boundaries of
the streets of the town, any person conveying or dedicating any street to the
town, where development or activity may affect a right-of-way, easement or
setback, shall be required to conduct a survey of said properties by a
registered land surveyor.
   b.   A permanent survey marker shall be erected on each corner of said
property at the point where it intersects with any other property.
(Prior Code, § 13.106)
ARTICLE II: UNLAWFUL ACTS
Section
   
16.201   Obstructions; interference; vehicles; exceptions
   
16.202   Same; protection by barricades, lights
   
16.203   Damaging public property
   
16.204   Depositing on streets, sidewalks and drains prohibited
   
16.205   Burning on streets prohibited
   
16.206   Dangerous substances prohibited
   
16.207   Garbage, other solid waste, trash, offensive matter
   
16.208   Obstructions to vision at street intersections
   
16.209   Same; removal
   
16.210   Streetlights; breaking, removing
   
16.211   Sidewalks; merchandise; exceptions; advertising
   
16.212   Draining water, other liquids onto streets or sidewalks prohibited
   
16.213   Lots draining toward sidewalk
   
16.214   Curbs; breaking, destroying prohibited; permission required, entrance
to property
   
16.215   Speaking, exhibiting, entertaining on streets; games
   
16.216   Gates and doors opening onto sidewalks
   
16.217   Obstruction of drains, ditches, watercourses and the like
   
16.218   Trees and shrubs on streets
   
16.219   Tree waste; removal
   
16.220   Fences; repairs
   
16.221   Camping on public property; unlawful
   
16.222   Appeals
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws and generally
accepted municipal practices.
§ 16.201  OBSTRUCTIONS; INTERFERENCE; VEHICLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, blockade or
obstruct any pavements, walks, streets or paths in the town by placing or
allowing to remain thereon any obstruction whatsoever in any manner as to
create a hazard.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any obstruction upon or
cause to be obstructed in any manner any street, sidewalk or public way or part
thereof, so as to render the passage of persons, vehicles or other travel
thereon difficult, inconvenient, dangerous or impossible.
   c.   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or blockade any street, highway,
public road or traveled place, or any part thereof, by placing or allowing to
remain thereon any vehicle not in actual or immediate use, or any other
article. This shall include building materials or any other obstruction
whatsoever; provided that nothing herein contained shall deprive any person who
may be in the process of construction, of the use of a number of feet, not
exceeding 20 feet.
   d.   Any person building a house or other structure within the town may
obtain from the Clerk/Treasurer permission for a partial and temporary use of
the streets for said building purposes.
   e.   No permission shall be granted for the placing of a permanent
obstruction on any street, highway or other public place.
   f.   Any obstruction placed on any street, sidewalk or highway in violation
of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   g.   This section shall not apply to any employee of the municipality,
county, state or public utility while such employee is immediately and actively
engaged in the maintenance, improvement or construction of a street, sidewalk,
public way or utilities.
   h.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or other
article dangerous to the public safety upon the public streets of the town at
night, or to make or cause to be made any unreasonable or dangerous obstruction
upon the public streets thereof; provided, however, that any person building
houses or other structures within the town shall obtain from the Town Clerk
written permission for a partial and temporary use of the public streets for
building purposes.
(Prior Code, § 16.201)
Cross-reference:
   Advertising prohibitions, see §
16.211.c
§ 16.202  SAME; PROTECTION BY BARRICADES, LIGHTS.
   While the obstructions provided for in this article remain on any street,
sidewalk, highway or other public place, suitable safeguards by day and by
night shall be maintained by the contractor, owner or person in charge of the
work, for the protection of the public, by roping off, using lanterns and other
proper means.
(Prior Code, § 16.202)
§ 16.203  DAMAGING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, mutilate or deface any
public property within the corporate limits.
   b.   This section shall prohibit the erection of anything on public
property, without the written consent of the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 16.203)
§ 16.204  DEPOSITING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND DRAINS PROHIBITED.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, discard, dump, sweep or
place any oil, trash, garbage, slop or refuse matter of any kind onto streets
or sidewalks.
   b.   This section shall apply to obstruction of any gutter, storm drain,
ditch and the like.
(Prior Code, § 16.204)
§ 16.205  BURNING ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any trash, garbage, leaves or
refuse matter on the streets and sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 16.205)
§ 16.206  DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place on any street or
sidewalk any glass in any shape or form, tin cans, nails, brick, pieces of
iron, sticks or any other substance likely to injure any person, animal or
vehicle thereon.
(S.C. Code § 57-7-20)  (Prior Code, § 16.206)
§ 16.207  GARBAGE, OTHER SOLID WASTE, TRASH, OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to throw or cause to be
thrown any garbage, other solid waste, trash or other offensive matter onto any
sidewalk, street, lot or public place.
(Prior Code, § 16.207)
§ 16.208  OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   On corner lots, there shall be no obstruction to vision between a height of
two feet and a height of ten feet measured above the average elevation of the
existing surfaces of the intersecting streets at their center lines, within the
area formed by joining points on the property lines, measured as follows:
   a.   On property lines abutting streets 50 feet or less in right-of-way
width, the points on the property lines shall be not less than 25 feet from the
lot corner;
   b.   On property lines abutting streets more than 50 feet in right-of-way
width, the points on the property lines shall be 50 feet from the lot corner;
and
   c.   This restriction shall not apply to buildings in business districts.
(Prior Code, § 16.208)
§ 16.209  SAME; REMOVAL.
   Whenever there exists on any privately owned property, located at any street
intersection, any tree, bush, shrubbery, plant, fence or other obstruction
which obstructs the view of pedestrians or vehicular traffic, interferes with
the safe and orderly movement of traffic or creates a dangerous condition, the
owner or occupant of such property shall, within ten days after official
written notice, remove such obstruction.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-80)  (Prior Code, § 16.209)
§ 16.210  STREETLIGHTS; BREAKING, REMOVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break any lamp or electric light or
to remove any electric light bulb or otherwise tamper with streetlights.
(Prior Code, § 16.210)
§ 16.211  SIDEWALKS; MERCHANDISE; EXCEPTIONS; ADVERTISING.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any merchant to display merchandise on the
streets or sidewalks without approval by the Clerk/Treasurer.
   b.   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit
sidewalk sales and displays by charitable, religious, educational or
eleemosynary groups or organizations.
   c.   It shall be unlawful for any person to paint, write, inscribe, place,
affix in any manner or display any advertising matter, inscriptions or devices
on the streets or sidewalks or upon any property belonging to the town or to
procure the same to be done.
   d.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with an order
to remove said property shall be served an ordinance summons to appear before
the Municipal Court, as provided in §
14.101 of this code.
   e.   Upon conviction, any person, firm or corporation shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to such fine as may be imposed by the Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 16.211)
§ 16.212  DRAINING WATER, OTHER LIQUIDS ONTO STREETS OR SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   a.   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be
deposited any materials or decayed matter of any kind, so that it falls or
flows upon any part of any street or sidewalk.
      2.   This section shall include dish or foul water from a pit, sink,
pipe, gutter or drain leading to a public street.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct, erect or
maintain a house or building of any description in such manner that rain water
may flow from the roof, eaves, cornices, gutters or other part thereof, down
any sidewalk or street so as to cause holes, depressions, unevenness, gullies
or other defect or damage to such sidewalk or street.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 16.212)
§ 16.213  LOTS DRAINING TOWARD SIDEWALK.
   When required by the Council, every person owning any lot which drains
toward a sidewalk shall provide such suitable and proper drainage under such
sidewalk as will deliver the gutter and drainage water from such lot to the
drainage system of the adjoining streets as required by law.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 16.213)
§ 16.214  CURBS; BREAKING, DESTROYING PROHIBITED; PERMISSION REQUIRED, ENTRANCE
TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or destroy the curbing of any
street, deface the same or to construct any entrance into property on any paved
streets, unless such person shall have first obtained permission therefor from
SCDOT.
(Prior Code, § 16.214)
§ 16.215  SPEAKING, EXHIBITING, ENTERTAINING ON STREETS; GAMES.
   a.   Preaching, lecturing or speaking, exhibition or entertainment of any
nature shall be permitted on the streets, sidewalks or public ways of the town,
but the Town Clerk shall be informed prior thereto. Failure to do so shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to play football, baseball,
basketball or any other games in and upon any street, or any public place that
may pose a danger to motorists or pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 16.215)
§ 16.216  GATES AND DOORS OPENING ONTO SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to maintain any door or
gate upon his or her premises so as to swing across or into any sidewalk or
street.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 16.216)
§ 16.217  OBSTRUCTION OF DRAINS, DITCHES, WATERCOURSES AND THE LIKE.
   a.   In the public interest, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons
to obstruct, or cause to be obstructed, any drains, ditches or watercourses
within the corporate limits.
   b.   Every person owning, controlling or in possession of land, through
which or through part of which a stream, ditch, gully or any natural drain
runs, shall keep the bed of same free from obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 16.217)
§ 16.218  TREES AND SHRUBS ON STREETS.
   No person shall cut, scar, mutilate, dig up or otherwise injure or destroy
any trees or shrubs within the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 16.218)
§ 16.219  TREE WASTE; REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person trimming trees, on or over any street or
sidewalk, to fail to remove promptly any branches, limbs or other waste.
(Prior Code, § 16.219)
§ 16.220  FENCES; REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or owners of lands, or lots of lands,
within the corporate limits, to fail to keep in good repair the fences on same,
which are adjacent to any street or alley. All dilapidated fences adjacent to
streets or alleys are hereby declared a nuisance and may be removed by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 16.220)
§ 16.221  CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to camp on any public property, including streets,
without permission from the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 16.221)
§ 16.222  APPEALS.
   Appeals from this chapter shall be made to the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 16.222)
ARTICLE III: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
16.301   Permission required; bond required
   
16.302   Danger signals required; lights required
   
16.303   Removal of danger signals
   
16.304   Cuts/excavations to be restored
   
16.305   Failure
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 16.301  PERMISSION REQUIRED; BOND REQUIRED.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to cut or excavate a street or sidewalk in the
corporate limits without having first obtained permission therefor from the
town and SCDOT, except in a bona fide emergency situation.
   b.   Before permission shall be granted for the opening or cutting of any
street or sidewalk in the town, the person making application may be required
to deposit with the town, a cash bond in a sum as may be estimated by the
Clerk/Treasurer to ensure the maintenance of lights and barricades during the
period of construction work, the refilling of the opening and the replacing
thereof.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 16.301)
§ 16.302  DANGER SIGNALS REQUIRED; LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any trench, ditch or excavation
in any street, sidewalk or public place to remain open without a sufficient
number of lights or other safety devices properly displayed around same as
danger signals to prevent accidents to persons or property. Adequate lights
shall be displayed at night.
(Prior Code, § 16.302)
§ 16.303  REMOVAL OF DANGER SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or extinguish any warning
device or light which may be placed as a signal during daylight hours, or at
night, to warn persons of danger from trenches, building materials, scaffolds,
excavations, impediments or obstacles of any description whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 16.303)
§ 16.304  CUTS/EXCAVATIONS TO BE RESTORED.
   Any such cut or excavation shall be restored according to the standards of
SCDOT within a period of 24 hours. Upon request, special consideration may be
granted by the town or SCDOT due to extreme weather conditions.
(Prior Code, § 16.304)
§ 16.305  FAILURE.
   In the event that said repair should sink or give away within one year, it
promptly shall be repaired by the person, firm or corporation making the
original cut or excavation within a reasonable time of being notified by the
town and/or SCDOT.
(Prior Code, § 16.305)
ARTICLE IV: LITTERING
Section
   
16.401   Prohibited
   
16.402   Duty of business owners, occupants
   
16.403   Duty of customer
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of municipalities, see S.C. Code § 16-11-700.
§ 16.401  PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast or deposit upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or any yard or premises, public or private, any filth
of any kind, or cans, paper, trash, paper containers, rubbish, bottles or any
other form of litter or waste matter.
(Prior Code, § 16.401)
§ 16.402  DUTY OF BUSINESS OWNERS, OCCUPANTS.
   a.   The owner or occupant of any store or other place of business situated
within the town shall exercise reasonable diligence at all times to keep his or
her premises clear of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons,
package containers and other used or waste material thrown or left on said
premises by his or her customers, and to take reasonable measures to prevent
same from drifting or blowing to adjoining premises.
   b.   Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be placed on the
premises accessible to the customers of such business where the above referred
to articles of waste may be disposed of.
   c.   Each and every business establishment shall place upon its premises in
a conspicuous place or places in close proximity to the receptacle or
receptacles above referred to, a sign or signs which shall, in essence, convey
to its customers a request that they use such receptacles for the disposal of
waste material.
(Prior Code, § 16.402)
§ 16.403  DUTY OF CUSTOMER.
   It shall be unlawful for any customer going upon the premises of another to,
in any manner, dispose of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons,
package containers and other used or waste materials except in receptacles
provided for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 16.403)
ARTICLE V: PENALTIES
Section
   
16.501   Penalty; exceptions
§ 16.501  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 16.501)
CHAPTER 17: UTILITIES
Editor’s note:
   At the preparation of this code of ordinances, the town did not operate a
water or sewerage system. This chapter has been added for the future when the
town may provide the details for such provisions.
CHAPTER 18: VEHICLES; TRAFFIC
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   OPERATION OF VEHICLE; MOVING TRAFFIC
      
III.   PARKING; STANDING; STOPPING
      
IV.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
V.   FUNERALS
      
VI.   PEDESTRIANS
      
VII.   TRUCK TRAFFIC
      
VIII.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
18.101   Adoption of state law; short title
   
18.102   Uniform act; definitions
   
18.103   Jurisdiction of municipal court
   
18.104   Fixing traffic tickets unlawful
   
18.105   Traffic-control devices; placement; maintenance; specifications;
obedience; interference
   
18.106   Speed limit variation by town; SCDOT approval; signs
   
18.107   Driver’s and vehicle licenses required; exceptions
   
18.108   Uninsured vehicle; unlawful
   
18.109   Service stations and garages to be kept clean and sanitary
   
18.110   Transfer or registration and license
   
18.111   Responsibility of vehicle owner
§ 18.101  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; SHORT TITLE.
   a.   There is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof, as if set
out in full, those provisions of state law known as the Uniform Act Regulating
Traffic on Highways, as contained in S.C. Code Title 56, Chapter 5.
   b.   This chapter may be cited as “the traffic ordinance” or “Traffic Code”.
(Prior Code, § 18.101)
§ 18.102  UNIFORM ACT; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, and local enforcement, applicable
provisions of S.C. Code Title 56, Chapter 5, as amended, are hereby adopted and
made a part of this code, including definitions set forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 18.102)
§ 18.103  JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   a.   The Municipal Court may try and determine violations of the provisions
of this chapter or provisions of the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, relating
to motor vehicles and traffic occurring within the corporate limits, when the
penalty prescribed by state law for such violations does not exceed 30 days
imprisonment or $100 fine, or both.
   b.   The Court may have trial jurisdiction over such traffic cases the same
as magistrates.
(S.C. Code §§ 14-25-65 and 56-5-6150)  (Prior Code, § 18.103)
Editor’s note:
   State law limits the authority of the court to a maximum fine.
§ 18.104  FIXING TRAFFIC TICKETS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any official or employee of the town to “fix” any
ticket or summons issued by any law enforcement officer for a violation of any
traffic ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 18.104)
§ 18.105  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; PLACEMENT; MAINTENANCE; SPECIFICATIONS;
OBEDIENCE; INTERFERENCE.
   a.   The Council may, from time to time, request South Carolina Department
of Transportation (SCDOT) to place and maintain traffic-control devices upon
the streets of the town, as deemed necessary, to regulate, warn or guide
traffic in the town.
   b.   All such traffic-control devices shall conform to the specifications of
SCDOT.
   c.   Drivers of all vehicles shall abide by signals of traffic officers and
all automatic and stationary signals and lines painted on the streets to guide
vehicular traffic.
   d.   No person shall willfully, without lawful authority, attempt to or
alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device or sign
or street name sign or any part thereof. In addition, any unauthorized person
found in possession of any street sign or traffic-control device from the town
shall be deemed in violation of this section.
(S.C. Code § 56-5-930)  (Prior Code, § 18.105)
§ 18.106  SPEED LIMIT VARIATION BY TOWN; SCDOT APPROVAL; SIGNS.
   a.   Whenever the Council shall have determined on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that the maximum speed imposed by this
chapter is greater or less than is reasonable and safe under the conditions
found to exist upon a highway or part of a highway, the Town Council may
determine and declare a reasonable and safe maximum limit thereon which:
      1.   Decreases the limit at intersections;
      2.   Increases the limit within an urban district, but not to more than
55 mph; or
      3.   Decreases the limit outside an urban district, but not to less than
25 mph.
   b.   Any alteration of maximum limits on state highways or extensions
thereof in the town, under the provisions of this article, shall not be
effective until such alteration has been approved by SCDOT.
   c.   Any altered limit established, as authorized by this article, shall be
effective at all times, when appropriate signs giving notice thereof have been
erected.
(Prior Code, § 18.106)
§ 18.107  DRIVER’S AND VEHICLE LICENSES REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street without, in his
or her possession, a valid driver’s license issued by this or another state to
operate the vehicle, and said vehicle shall have current license tags.
   b.   This section shall not apply to persons expressly exempt by state law
from the requirement of a driver’s license nor shall this section be construed
so as to interfere with reciprocity rights under state law as concerns the
driver of a vehicle bearing an out-of-state license to driving with an out-of-
state driver’s license.
(S.C. Code §§ 56-1-20, 56-1-30, and 56-3-110 et seq.)  (Prior Code, § 18.107)
§ 18.108  UNINSURED VEHICLE; UNLAWFUL.
   a.   It shall be unlawful to operator any motor vehicle upon or along any
public street, road, alley or highway within the town, unless such vehicle has
been insured by a licensed carrier with insurance meeting all requirements and
specifications of the state or unless such fees or collateral as required by
the state have been paid or deposited.
   b.   This section shall apply to every self-propelled vehicle designed for
use upon a highway or street, excluding such vehicles as traction engines, road
rollers, farm tractors, tractor cranes, electric shovels, well drillers and
vehicles powered by electric power obtained by overhead wires but not operated
upon rails.
(Prior Code, § 18.108)
Editor’s note:
   Although this is a state responsibility, this section has been added to
facilitate local enforcement.
§ 18.109  SERVICE STATIONS AND GARAGES TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND SANITARY.
   a.   Every person owning or operating a public service station or public
garage shall keep the premises in such a neat and sanitary manner and shall
keep the sidewalks, walkways and driveways in and about such service station or
garage free from grease, oil, water or other substance.
   b.   Service stations or garages shall at all times be subject to the
inspection of the Director of Public Services or his or her designated
representatives.
   c.   The owner or operator shall promptly carry out the order of any such
inspector with regard to the keeping of such station or garage.
(Prior Code, § 18.109)
§ 18.110  TRANSFER OR REGISTRATION AND LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, move or operate upon any
public street or highway in the town any vehicle for which a transfer of the
registration and license are required by the laws of the state and which
transfer has not been made as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 18.110)
§ 18.111  RESPONSIBILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER.
   No person shall knowingly allow, permit or let any vehicle registered in his
or her name to violate any of the ordinances of the town; provided, however,
that all violations of parking ordinances shall be presumed to be with the
knowledge of the owner of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 18.111)
ARTICLE II: OPERATION OF VEHICLE; MOVING TRAFFIC
Section
   
18.201   Inattentive operation of a vehicle
   
18.202   Reckless driving
   
18.203   Prohibitions
   
18.204   Corner cutting; driving across private property to make turns
   
18.205   Stop signs
   
18.206   Entering intersection or marked crosswalks
   
18.207   Vehicles; boarding or alighting from
   
18.208   Same; unlawful riding
   
18.209   Operation on play streets
   
18.210   Leaking or scattering load prohibited
   
18.211   Damaging paved surfaces prohibited
   
18.212   Sidewalks
   
18.213   “U” turns
   
18.214   Streets under repair, closed to travel
   
18.215   Passing unlawfully
   
18.216   Advertising prohibited
   
18.217   Hitching to moving vehicles
   
18.218   Horn in quiet zones
   
18.219   Doors opening into traffic
   
18.220   Loads to be securely chained
   
18.221   Speed restrictions
   
18.222   Lower speeds required
   
18.223   Impeding free flow of traffic unlawful
   
18.224   Special hazards
   
18.225   Racing; engine noise; drag racing and the like
   
18.226   Emergency vehicles; restrictions
   
18.227   Shifting lanes without safety precaution
   
18.228   Unattended vehicles
   
18.229   Driving while intoxicated/under influence of drugs
   
18.230   Accidents; assistance required
   
18.231   Riding in/on municipal vehicles unlawful
   
18.232   Motorcycles; reckless operation; clinging to vehicles
   
18.233   Bicycles; reckless operation; clinging to vehicles
   
18.234   Same; lights required
   
18.235   Same; riding on sidewalks
   
18.236   Bicycles, mopeds or motorcycles in parks and recreation area
   
18.237   Windshields and windows
   
18.238   Violation of municipal traffic law
   
18.239   Penalty
§ 18.201  INATTENTIVE OPERATION OF A VEHICLE.
   a.   Any person who drives any vehicle (as defined in S.C. Code § 56-1-10
(28)) in such a manner as to indicate a lack of due or ordinary care for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of the offense of inattentive operation
of a vehicle.
   b.   Inattentive operation of a vehicle shall not include driving actions or
omissions indicating a wilful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property or driving actions or omissions sufficient to constitute a violation
of state law relating to reckless driving or relating to driving under the
influence of intoxicating liquor, drugs or narcotics.
(Ord. 2008-5, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 18.202  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a vehicle in such manner as to indicate a willful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property, upon conviction, shall
be guilty of reckless driving and of a violation of this section.
(S.C. Code § 56-5-2920)  (Prior Code, § 18.202)
§ 18.203  PROHIBITIONS.
   a.   The use of all unlicensed motor vehicles, including, but not limited
to, three-wheelers, four- wheelers, mini-bikes, go-carts, trail-bikes and other
unlicensed vehicles is hereby forbidden on the streets, roads or sidewalks
within the corporate limits.
   b.   The use of such vehicles is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   c.   All persons approaching traffic signals shall stay within the parallel
lines and shall not change direction in the vicinity of the signal for the
purpose of taking advantage of the green light facing in another direction.
(Prior Code, § 18.203)
Editor’s note:
   These prohibitions are declared to be nuisances in that they prevent the
free circulation of traffic in, through and from the town; the use thereof
endangers the health, safety and welfare of the general public and these
conditions can be reduced by said prohibitions.
§ 18.204  CORNER CUTTING; DRIVING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY TO MAKE TURNS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle over any
sidewalk area and through any driveway, parking lot or business entrance at any
intersection, in making either a right or left turn, except for the purpose of
coming to a complete stop to obtain or render some service or make a sale or
purchase.
   b.   It is the intention of this section to prohibit “corner cutting” by
driving a vehicle from one street into another across any sidewalk and/or
driveway and/or through any driveway.
(Prior Code, § 18.204)
§ 18.205  STOP SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected at the entrance to any intersection, every
driver of a vehicle shall stop, before entering the intersection, except when
directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer or traffic- control signal.
(Prior Code, § 18.205)
§ 18.206  ENTERING INTERSECTION OR MARKED CROSSWALKS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate said vehicle without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 18.206)
§ 18.207  VEHICLES; BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while it is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 18.207)
§ 18.208  SAME; UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle nor upon any portion thereof which is
neither designated nor intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall
not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to
persons riding within truck bodies in a space intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 18.208)
§ 18.209  OPERATION ON PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or any part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any portion
thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area.
(Prior Code, § 18.209)
§ 18.210  LEAKING OR SCATTERING LOAD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of every vehicle employed in
removing or carrying any dirt, sawdust, sand, coal or any other materials
liable to be blown by the wind or fall by gravity, or any manure or filth or
offensive matter of any kind or description, along or over any public street,
to fail to keep the same in such tight and secure condition that such matter
shall not be scattered or suffered to fall on any such streets.
(Prior Code, § 18.210)
§ 18.211  DAMAGING PAVED SURFACES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, drive or cause to be driven
or operated, over, upon or across the paved streets or any thoroughfare, a
vehicle having wheels with flanges, ribs, damps, spikes or other devices
attached to or a part of the wheel of such vehicle that would injure or damage
the paved surface of said streets or thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 18.211)
§ 18.212  SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, propel or park any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle upon any sidewalk, except as may be necessary in
entering or leaving the premises or buildings.
(Prior Code, § 18.212)
§ 18.213 “U” TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to make a “U” turn or
other prohibited turn at any point where such turn is prohibited by posted
signs or to accomplish a “U” turn by deviously going into or through private
property adjoining a street where such turn is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 18.213)
§ 18.214  STREETS UNDER REPAIR, CLOSED TO TRAVEL.
   No person shall drive or cause to be driven any vehicle over any street
which is being repaired or paved, or over any part of a street wholly closed to
travel.
(Prior Code, § 18.214)
§ 18.215  PASSING UNLAWFULLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to pass another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction when the passing vehicle is within 100 feet of an
intersection, approaching a curve, when a solid yellow line is located in the
lane of the passing vehicle or upon a hill or grade.
(Prior Code, § 18.215)
§ 18.216  ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or park any vehicle on any street for the primary
purpose of advertising, without the prior written approval of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 18.216)
§ 18.217  HITCHING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to grasp any motorized vehicle while it
is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 13.217)
§ 18.218  HORN IN QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 13.218)
§ 18.219  DOORS OPENING INTO TRAFFIC.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to traffic
for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(Prior Code, § 18.219)
§ 18.220  LOADS TO BE SECURELY CHAINED.
   a.   No person shall haul logs, pulpwood logs, lumber, crossties or barrels
over or upon any street unless they shall be safely and securely fastened, with
chains, on such vehicle.
   b.   The links of such chain shall be made of material of a dimension not
less than one-half inch in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 18.220)
§ 18.221  SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   a.   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual
and potential hazards then existing.
   b.   In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the
street in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use
due care.
(S.C. Code §§ 56-5-1520 et seq.)  (Prior Code, § 18.221)
§ 18.222  LOWER SPEEDS REQUIRED.
   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of this
article, drive at an appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway and when any special hazard exists with respect to other
traffic or by reason of weather or street conditions.
(Prior Code, § 18.222)
§ 18.223  IMPEDING FREE FLOW OF TRAFFIC UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to congregate upon
the streets or sidewalks in such a manner as to impede the free flow of
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 18.223)
§ 18.224  SPECIAL HAZARDS.
   Where special hazards exist, all motor vehicles shall obey posted signs
giving notice of special conditions.
(Prior Code, § 18.224)
§ 18.225  RACING; ENGINE NOISE; DRAG RACING AND THE LIKE.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a motor vehicle race
or contest for speed or acceleration on any public road, street or highway or
to aid, abet or assist in any manner whatsoever in any such race contest. It
shall be unlawful also for any owner of a motor vehicle to acquiesce in or
permit his or her car to be used by another in any motor vehicle race or
contest for speed.
   b.   All state laws, rules and regulations relative to loud mufflers, racing
and speeding of motorcycles and similar vehicles shall be enforced in the town.
   c.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the operation of a motor vehicle
to cause, suffer or allow any loud, excessive or unusual noise in the operation
or use of such motor vehicle upon any of the streets of the town.
   d.   It shall be unlawful for any person to race the engine of any motor
vehicle while such vehicle is not in motion, except when necessary to do so in
the course of repairing, adjusting or testing the vehicle.
   e.   Any driver of any motor vehicle who shall willfully cause such vehicle
to “dig out” or cause any such vehicle to make unnecessary noise by reason of
operating such vehicle in such manner as to cause the wheels thereof to spin or
slide on the roadway of any street when starting such vehicle or while making
any turning movement shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 18.225)
§ 18.226  EMERGENCY VEHICLES; RESTRICTIONS.
   a.   The speed limitations set forth herein shall not apply to authorized
police, fire and ambulance emergency vehicles when responding to emergency
calls and the drivers thereof sound an audible signal by siren, bell or exhaust
whistle capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet.
   b.   This provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street, nor shall it protect the driver of any vehicle from the
consequence of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 18.226)
§ 18.227  SHIFTING LANES WITHOUT SAFETY PRECAUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to shift lanes of traffic
without first ascertaining that a shift in lanes of traffic by his or her
vehicle will not impede or interfere with the movement of any other vehicle
upon the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 18.227)
§ 18.228  UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person driving or in charge of a motor
vehicle to leave such vehicle unattended on any street, alley, other public
property, or new or used car lot, or on any private parking lot to which the
general public is invited and at which there is no attendant without first
stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing the ignition key from
the vehicle.
   b.   Whenever any police officer shall find a motor vehicle standing
unattended with the ignition key in the vehicle in violation of this section,
such police officer shall prepare a citation against the owner of the vehicle
and shall affix the citation to the vehicle.
   c.   The registered owner of a vehicle found in violation shall be held
prima facie responsible for any such violation.
   d.   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to vehicles used
for public transportation, vehicles used for delivery and emergency purposes or
vehicles owned and operated for governmental purposes by the town, county or
state.
(Prior Code, § 18.228)
§ 18.229  DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED/UNDER INFLUENCE OF DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of intoxicating
liquors, narcotic drugs, barbiturates, paraldehydes or drugs, herbs or any
substance of like character, whether synthetic or natural, to drive any vehicle
within the town.
(S.C. Code § 56-5-2930)  (Prior Code, § 18.229)
§ 18.230  ACCIDENTS; ASSISTANCE REQUIRED.
   Every person driving a vehicle of any kind which strikes or hits any person
or another vehicle shall stop such vehicle at once and render such assistance
as he or she can, give his or her name, post office address, license number and
serial number of his or her vehicle to the other person or driver. He or she
shall assist in calling for assistance and shall remain at the scene until an
officer arrives.
(Prior Code, § 18.230)
Statutory reference:
   As to state laws relating to accidents, please see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-1230 et
seq.
§ 18.231  RIDING IN/ON MUNICIPAL VEHICLES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person or persons to ride in or on
a municipal vehicle, without official authority to do so.
(Prior Code, § 18.231)
§ 18.232  MOTORCYCLES; RECKLESS OPERATION; CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorcycle (cycle) in
a reckless or dangerous manner on any public right-of-way.
   b.   No person riding a motorcycle shall attach his or her cycle or himself
or herself to a moving vehicle upon any street.
(Prior Code, § 18.232)
§ 18.233  BICYCLES; RECKLESS OPERATION; CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle (cycle) in a
reckless or dangerous manner.
   b.   No person riding a bicycle shall attach his or her cycle, himself, or
herself to a moving vehicle upon any street.
(Prior Code, § 18.233)
§ 18.234  SAME; LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a bicycle at night unless it is equipped
with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear; provided, however,
that a red reflector meeting the requirements of this section may be used in
lieu of a red light.
(Prior Code, § 18.234)
§ 18.235  SAME; RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon any sidewalk
or pedestrian walkway.
(Prior Code, § 18.235)
§ 18.236  BICYCLES, MOPEDS OR MOTORCYCLES IN PARKS AND RECREATION AREA.
   No bicycles, mopeds or motorcycles shall be ridden in parks or in recreation
areas except in areas specifically designated by signs for such use.
(Prior Code, § 18.236)
§ 18.237  WINDSHIELDS AND WINDOWS.
   a.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon a public
highway, street or road, which has been altered, treated or replaced by the
affixation, application or installation of any material which causes the
reflectance of any window to be less than 27%.
   b.   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is required to be registered
in this state on any public highway, road or street that has a sunscreen device
on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows adjacent to the right
and left of the driver and windows to the rear of the driver that do not meet
the requirements of this section. If no after-factory installed sunscreen
device has been added to the window surface, the provisions of this section
regarding light transmittance do not apply.
   c.   A sunscreening device must be nonreflective and may not be red, yellow
or amber in color. A sunscreening device may be used only along the top of the
windshield and may not extend downward beyond the AS1 line. If the AS1 line is
not visible, no sunscreening device may be applied to the windshield.
   d.   Each vehicle equipped with an after-factory sunscreening device,
whether installed by a consumer or professional window tinter, at all times
must bear a certificate of compliance. The certificate of compliance must be of
a size and form prescribed by the Department of Public Safety. Each certificate
of compliance must be properly attached to the vehicle on the inside and lower
right-hand corner of each window containing an after-factory installed
sunscreen device and must contain the following information:
      1.   The percentage of light transmission allowed by the sunscreening
device;
      2.   The identity of the installer by name, address and telephone number;
and
      3.   Date of installation.
(S.C. Code § 56-05-5015(k))  (Ord. 2014-03, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 18.238  VIOLATION OF MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC LAW.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within
the town limits that may violate any S.C. Code Title 56 or municipal law under
this section.
   b.   Any person failing to do so shall be guilty of the offense of violation
of municipal traffic law.
   c.   If found guilty, the violator will be fined not less than $155 nor more
than $600.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed 8-4-2014)
§ 18.239  PENALTY.
   The penalty for a violation of §§
18.233 through
18.236 shall be confiscation of said vehicle, in addition to provisions of §
18.801 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 18.237)
ARTICLE III: PARKING; STANDING; STOPPING
Section
   
18.301   Parking; authorized
   
18.302   Same; manner
   
18.303   Same; tickets authorized
   
18.304   Handicapped persons; parking; penalty
   
18.305   Blocking streets and alleys; exception
   
18.306   Loading zones
   
18.307   Signal to stop
   
18.308   Stop signs; duty to stop
   
18.309   Vision obstruction of traffic unlawful
   
18.310   Disabled vehicles
   
18.311   Fire lanes designated; parking prohibited; penalty
   
18.312   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
Editor’s note:
   This article is derived from the S.C. Code Title 56 and standards used by
other municipalities in this state.
§ 18.301  PARKING; AUTHORIZED.
   a.   In addition to the other provisions of this article relative to
parking, the Town Council may designate areas or spaces on town streets where
the parking of vehicles is either permitted, prohibited or limited to a
specific time or otherwise restricted.
   b.   When signs are erected giving notice that parking is prohibited during
certain hours, no person shall park a vehicle between the hours so designated
on any day, except Sundays and public holidays. When signs are erected giving
notice that parking is limited to a certain period of time, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the period and between the hours so designated,
except on Sundays and public holidays.
(Prior Code, § 18.301)
§ 18.302  SAME; MANNER.
   a.   Where parking is permitted on streets not marked off for parking, the
operator of any vehicle shall park such vehicle with the right front and right
rear wheels as near as possible to the curb or side of the road and parallel
thereto.
   b.   Vehicles parked within marked areas shall not occupy any part of more
than one space.
   c.   The operator of a parked vehicle shall enter the roadway only when the
roadway is clear.
(Prior Code, § 18.302)
§ 18.303  SAME; TICKETS AUTHORIZED.
   a.   The Council may authorize, subject to the restrictions imposed in the
foregoing sections, signs and devices relating to the limitations upon parking
at particular places.
   b.   Failure to pay the penalty within the prescribed time shall subject the
owner thereof to be summoned by the Magistrate and punished within his or her
discretion.
(Prior Code, § 18.303)
§ 18.304  HANDICAPPED PERSONS; PARKING; PENALTY.
   a.   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to designate parking spaces for
persons with disabilities.
   b.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be parked in a parking space
designated for persons with disabilities without the proper display of an
appropriate placard (or mirror hanger) visible from the outside of the vehicle
or a lawfully issued license plate.
   c.   When a vehicle is parked in a parking space reserved for persons with
disabilities, the driver or a passenger must be the legitimate holder of either
an appropriate official placard or a current vehicle license plate.
   d.   Any person violating the provisions of division b. above shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, fined not less than $500
nor more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days for each offense,
or both, as required by the S.C. Code § 56-3-1970.
(S.C. Code § 56-3-1965)  (Prior Code, § 18.304)
Statutory reference:
   S.C. Code § 56-3-1971 authorizes all law enforcement officers to issue a
uniform parking violations ticket to vehicles violating designated spaces for
personswith disabilities.
§ 18.305  BLOCKING STREETS AND ALLEYS; EXCEPTION.
   a.   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street or an
alley or other public places in such a manner or under such conditions as to
obstruct the traffic.
   b.   No person shall park a vehicle in an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   c.   A driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or, where necessary, in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals of a law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 18.305)
§ 18.306  LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a loading zone are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 60 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 18.306)
§ 18.307  SIGNAL TO STOP.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle upon the
public streets, alleys or ways of the town to fail to stop when signaled to do
so, by the sounding of a siren, exhaust whistle, bell or word of mouth or any
whistle known as a police signal device.
   b.   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of any police officer or other person authorized to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 18.307)
§ 18.308  STOP SIGNS; DUTY TO STOP.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at an intersection where a stop sign is
erected. He or she shall then proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so closely as
to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 18.308)
§ 18.309  VISION OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC UNLAWFUL.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any street if the vehicle obstructs the vision
of traffic approaching the vehicle in any direction, or which causes vehicles
approaching the parked vehicle to alter their normal course of movement.
(Prior Code, § 18.309)
§ 18.310  DISABLED VEHICLES.
   The operator of any vehicle which becomes disabled on any street within the
town shall:
   a.   Move the disabled vehicle to the extreme right side of the road; and
   b.   Make immediate arrangements to have the vehicle removed as quickly as
possible by wrecker, tow truck or other method.
(Prior Code, § 18.310)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Article IV, this chapter.
§ 18.311  FIRE LANES DESIGNATED; PARKING PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   a.   To provide for the emergency access of Fire Department apparatus and
rescue operation, fire lanes may be designated adjacent to buildings. The fire
lanes may be designated by the use of no-parking signs, yellow curbing and/or
pavement markings.
   b.   Any person who stops, stands or parks a vehicle in a designated fire
lane, within the corporate limits of the town, shall be deemed to be in
violation of this section.
   c.   Any violation of this article shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-30)  (Prior Code, § 18.311)
§ 18.312  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   a.   Except at the direction of a law enforcement officer, no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   Within an intersection;
      3.   On a crosswalk;
      4.   Where official traffic-control devices prohibit stopping, standing
or parking; or
      5.   To obstruct a street, private driveway or a crossing for
pedestrians.
   b.   Except to momentarily pick up or discharge passengers, no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not:
      1.   In a traveled portion of the street or highway;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      4.   At any place where official traffic-control devices prohibit
stopping, standing or parking; or
      5.   On the left side of the street, except for funeral processions.
   c.   Any person who stops, stands or parks a vehicle in a prohibited area
shall be deemed to be in violation of this article.
(S.C. Code §§ 5-7-30 and 56-5-2530)  (Prior Code, § 18.312)
ARTICLE IV: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
18.401   Abandonment unlawful
   
18.402   Abandonment determined
   
18.403   Definitions
   
18.404   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
18.405   Health hazards defined
   
18.406   Salvaged vehicles
   
18.407   Exceptions
   
18.408   Properly licensed business
Editor’s note:
   This article derives generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 18.401  ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or permit to be abandoned any
motorized vehicle for self propulsion, including, but not limited to, any
automobile, boat, golf cart, any dismantled or partially dismantled vehicle or
motor vehicle, vehicle or motor vehicle parts or accessories, on any public
street, right-of-way, public grounds or upon any privately-owned property; and
it shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any privately-owned
property to abandon a vehicle or to permit the abandonment of a vehicle as
described in this article.
(Prior Code, § 18.401)
§ 18.402  ABANDONMENT DETERMINED.
   For the purpose of this article, a vehicle shall be determined to have been
ABANDONED under one or more of the following circumstances:
   a.   Any vehicle left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance;
   b.   Any vehicle failing to display a current license plate;
   c.   Any vehicle that is dismantled or partially dismantled, damaged or left
exposed, uncovered, unscreened or unenclosed;
   d.   Any vehicle incapable of self propulsion or incapable of being driven
or operated in the manner for which it was originally intended;
   e.   Any vehicle left, stored or abandoned on property owned, operated or
controlled by the town without written consent;
   f.   Any vehicle left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for a period in excess of 24 hours; or
   g.   Any vehicle left, stored or abandoned on any public street or right-of-
way of the town for a period in excess of seven days.
(Prior Code, § 18.402)
§ 18.403  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real estate property within the town which is
privately owned and which is not public property as defined in this article.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street or highway which shall include the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of
vehicular travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property, right-
of-way or facility.
(Prior Code, § 18.403)
§ 18.404  PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   a.   Any person in charge or control of any property within the town,
whether as an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, must park or store
all abandoned vehicles in a completely enclosed building, conceal the vehicle
with a cover specifically designed for the purpose of protecting the particular
vehicle or construct a privacy fence as defined in division b.3. below, that
prevents sight or view from a public location or adjoining properties.
   b.   Any owner notified of a violation of this article shall comply
therewith within 30 days by one of the following means:
      1.   Remove the vehicle completely from view by storing the vehicle
inside a completely enclosed building;
      2.   Conceal the vehicle with a cover specifically designed for the
purpose of protecting the particular vehicle; or
      3.   Construct a privacy fence as defined in this division b.3. for the
area containing the vehicle that prohibits sight or view of the vehicle from a
public location or adjoining properties. Any constructed PRIVACY FENCE shall be
made of chain link design with aluminum or plastic panel weave or may be
designed of solid wood privacy fencing. Fencing must be of a sufficient height,
design and construction as to totally prohibit sight or view of the vehicle
from a public location or adjoining properties. All fencing must be maintained
as to continue to prevent sight or view of the vehicle as well as to ensure
that the fencing itself is not unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 18.404)
§ 18.405  HEALTH HAZARDS DEFINED.
   a.   Any person who parks, stores, maintains or otherwise keeps a vehicle
determined by the town to be a health hazard is in violation of this article.
   b.   For purposes of this article, a HEALTH HAZARD is defined as any
abandoned vehicle parked, stored, maintained or otherwise kept on any parcel of
property within the incorporated limits of the town that presents opportunity
to create or accumulate moisture, attract infestation by mosquitoes, other
insects, rats or other vermin.
(Prior Code, § 18.405)
§ 18.406  SALVAGED VEHICLES.
   No person shall salvage or otherwise maintain upon private property any
inoperative, dismantled or partially dismantled vehicle for the purpose of
removing parts or for storage or repair, unless said vehicle has a current
vehicle license and unless the vehicle is covered or concealed in accordance
with this article.
(Prior Code, § 18.406)
§ 18.407  EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Vehicles designed or used specifically for the primary purpose of
vehicle showing or for the primary purpose of racing are exempt from the
regulation requiring that the vehicle maintain a currently registered vehicle
license if the vehicle is not normally required to maintain a current vehicle
license by state or local law.
   b.   All vehicles exempted in this article shall be stored in accordance
with all other regulations described in this article.
(Prior Code, § 18.407)
§ 18.408  PROPERLY LICENSED BUSINESS.
   Any person who owns, operates, controls or maintains a licensed business or
commercial location and who possesses necessary federal, state and/or local
jurisdictional licenses to sell, remodel, refurbish, renovate, paint, restore
or otherwise repair any vehicle designed for self propulsion, including, but
not limited to, any automobile, boat, golf cart, any dismantled or partially
dismantled vehicle, vehicle parts or accessories, shall be exempt from certain
requirements of this article as follows:
   a.   Properly licensed business owners or operators may park, store,
maintain or keep vehicles offered for sale upon their licensed private business
or commercial property and in public view, but may not block or obstruct a
public street or right-of-way;
   b.   Properly licensed business owners or operators may park, store,
maintain or keep vehicles under repair upon their licensed private business or
commercial property and in public view for 90 days, if the vehicle is being
actively repaired and has a current vehicle license; and
   c.    Properly licensed business owners or operators must store all other
vehicles in accordance with the regulations of this article.
      1.   Any person who permits any vehicle to remain in the town in
violation of this article, after having been provided 30 days’ notice, shall be
issued a uniform citation with a scheduled court date. The bond and/or fine for
the violation shall not exceed $100 or 15 days imprisonment; provided, however,
no subsequent summonses shall be written or issued for the same violation until
after disposition of the primary violation in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      2.   Any person who permits any vehicle to remain in violation of this
article, after having been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction for a
first offense for five consecutive days after the conviction, shall be issued a
second uniform traffic citation. The fine for the subsequent violations shall
not exceed $500 or 30 days imprisonment. Each day of violations shall
constitute a separate offense.
      3.   Sufficient notice is hereby determined when a copy of same has been
posted in a conspicuous place upon the vehicle or upon the private property on
which the vehicle is located, and a duplicate copy is sent by registered mail
to the last known address of the owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant
of the private property.
(Prior Code, § 18.408)
ARTICLE V: FUNERALS
Section
   
18.501   Driving into funeral prohibited
   
18.502   Identification
   
18.503   Drivers in processions to follow closely
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices.
§ 18.501  DRIVING INTO FUNERAL PROHIBITED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral
while in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously identified as required
herein.
(Prior Code, § 18.501)
§ 18.502  IDENTIFICATION.
   A funeral procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the lead
vehicles by a display on the outside of each funeral home vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 18.502)
§ 18.503  DRIVERS IN PROCESSIONS TO FOLLOW CLOSELY.
   Each driver in a funeral shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the
roadway as practical and follow the vehicle ahead as closely as practical and
safe, with headlights on.
(Prior Code, § 18.503)
ARTICLE VI: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
18.601   Walking on streets and roadways
   
18.602   Drivers to exercise due care with regard to pedestrians
   
18.603   Hitchhiking prohibited
Editor’s note:
   This article derives from generally accepted municipal practices, to provide
for the safety of citizens.
§ 18.601  WALKING ON STREETS AND ROADWAYS.
   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking upon a street
shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or its
shoulder facing traffic that may approach from the opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 18.601)
§ 18.602  DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE WITH REGARD TO PEDESTRIANS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
any pedestrian upon any street and shall give warning by sounding the horn,
when necessary. He or she shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any
child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a street.
(Prior Code, § 18.602)
§ 18.603  HITCHHIKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand on public property for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from a driver of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 18.603)
ARTICLE VII: TRUCK TRAFFIC
Section
   
18.701   Short title
   
18.702   Definitions
   
18.703   Prohibition of through trucks
   
18.704   Prohibition on travel in residential subdivisions
   
18.705   Overnight stay
   
18.706   Penalty
§ 18.701  SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as “the truck traffic article”.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 18.702  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. An area with streets designed primarily for
residential and accessory traffic that are primarily interior subdivision
streets, and specifically including all residential areas platted and regulated
by the town’s subdivision regulations.
   TRUCK. Any vehicle with more than six wheels, except vehicles or operators
of local origin, recreational vehicles and busses used in transportation of
chartered parties and government-owned vehicles.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 18.703  PROHIBITION OF THROUGH TRUCKS.
   a.   It shall be unlawful for any truck to travel those certain state roads
set forth in division c. below, as now or hereafter amended, unless the vehicle
trip originates or ends on such road or is made for the purpose of making a
delivery to a site on such road. All such roads shall be posted with signs at
each end of said road that state, “No Thru Trucks”. At the Council’s discretion
such signs may also be posted at the intersection of any such road with other
roads.
   b.   This article shall apply to roads specifically authorized herein by the
Board of Commissioners and as later added to or deleted from division c. below
by resolution of the Council. Upon adoption, this article shall apply
immediately to those roads listed in division c. below.
   c.   1.   Salley Ackerman Drive;
      2.   Durrant Drive;
      3.   Griffith Acreas; and
      4.   Framer Street.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 18.704  PROHIBITION ON TRAVEL IN RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   No truck shall enter, travel or park on a street in a residential
subdivision in the town, except for the purpose of delivering goods to houses
or points within such residential subdivision for short periods of time during
daylight hours. Operators or owner/operators residing in subdivisions prior to
the enactment of this article are exempt from this section until such time that
they voluntarily cease operations.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 18.705  OVERNIGHT STAY.
   No truck or tractor-trailer shall enter, travel or park on a street in a
residential subdivision or park on a right-of-way in the town for the purpose
of an overnight stay by the driver or operator.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 18.706  PENALTY.
   Any person violating this article shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$1,000 or 60 days imprisonment. Each day that the offense continues shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-5-2014)
ARTICLE VIII: PENALTIES
Section
   
18.801   Penalty; exceptions
§ 18.801  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 18.701)
CHAPTER 19: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   DEFINITIONS
      
III.   ADMINISTRATION
      
IV.   PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
      
V.   VARIANCE PROCEDURES
      
VI.   LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
      
VII.   PENALTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
19.101   Flood damage prevention; permit required
   
19.102   Statutory authorization
   
19.103   Findings of fact
   
19.104   Statement of purpose and objectives
   
19.105   Application
   
19.106   Establishment of development permit
   
19.107   Compliance
   
19.108   Interpretation
   
19.109   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
19.110   Penalty for violation
Editor’s note:
In order for the citizens of a municipality to obtain flood insurance, federal
guidelines require the municipality or the county in which the municipality is
situated to adopt an ordinance regulating construction in a floodplain. Such an
ordinance was adopted by the county on October 2, 2001. In the preparation of
this code, the editors discussed this requirement with the Planning Development
Director for the county. He confirmed the county had adopted the ordinance on
that date.
§ 19.101  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   a.   Subject to the provisions of the county floodplain control ordinance,
the citizens of the town are hereby authorized, when eligible, to obtain flood
insurance, subject to federal and county guidelines.
   b.   Within the floodplain areas of the county, as shown on maps maintained
by the county, any person, firm or corporation shall obtain a permit for
construction when desiring to construct a building of any kind within the
corporate limits of the town.
   c.   The Town Clerk is hereby directed to prepare the necessary details
pertaining to such permit and the administration hereof.
   d.   The violation of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty set forth
in
Article VII of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 19.101)
§ 19.102  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has, in S.C. Code Title 5 and Title 6, and amendments
thereto, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the town does ordain as follows
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.103  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   a.   The special flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   b.   Furthermore, these flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.104  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   a.   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health,
minimize property damage, and encourage appropriate construction practices to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that
uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction. Uses of the
floodplain which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water or
erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities or erosion are
restricted or prohibited. These provisions attempt to control the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels and natural protective barriers which are
involved in the accommodation of flood waters, and control filling, grading,
dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion.
Additionally, the chapter prevents or regulates the construction of flood
barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood
hazards to other lands.
   b.   The objectives of this chapter are to protect human life and health, to
help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development
of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight areas, and to
ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. The provisions of the chapter are intended to minimize damage to public
facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and
sewer lines, streets and bridges located in the floodplain, and prolonged
business interruptions. Also, an important floodplain management objective of
this chapter is to minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood
control projects and rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding.
   c.   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform vital
natural functions such as temporary storage of flood waters, moderation of peak
flood flows, maintenance of water quality, groundwater recharge, prevention of
erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations, recreational
opportunities and aesthetic quality. These functions are best served if
floodplains are kept in their natural state. Wherever possible, the natural
characteristics of floodplains and their associated wetlands and water bodies
should be preserved and enhanced. Decisions to alter floodplains, especially
floodways and stream channels, should be the result of careful planning
processes that evaluate resource conditions and human needs.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.105  APPLICATION.
   a.   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the town as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) in its flood insurance study, dated December 21, 2017 with
accompanying maps and other supporting data that are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   b.   Upon annexation, any special flood hazard areas identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its flood insurance study for the
unincorporated areas of the county, with accompanying map and other data are
adopted by reference and declared part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.106  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.107  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.108  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state law. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions; however, where this chapter
and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.109  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.110  PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more that $500
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
ARTICLE II: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
19.201   Definitions
§ 19.201  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). Structures that are located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal investment, may not be used for human habitation and be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure. ADDITIONS to existing buildings
shall comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to
whether the addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or
load-bearing wall is provided between the addition and the existing building,
the ADDITION(S) shall be considered a separate building and must comply with
the standards for new construction.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes in
which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES are not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Local Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building that is below grade on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT. Development that is critical to the community’s public
health and safety, is essential to the orderly functioning of a community,
store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials, or house
occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or injury.
Examples of CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT include jails, hospitals, schools, fire
stations, nursing homes, wastewater treatment facilities, water plants and gas/
oil/propane storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of solid foundation perimeter walls,
pilings, columns, piers or shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before September 12, 2012.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before September 12, 2012.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency which contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary
floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with flood waters without
sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any
material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water,
including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not flood-resistant.
Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable
flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation
from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally unstable are
not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after
submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2,
Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 2008, and available
from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials,
referenced therein, are acceptable FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIALS.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI)) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; and
      4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by an
approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or directly
by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs. Some
structures or districts listed on the state or local inventories may not be
HISTORIC as cited above, but have been included on the inventories because it
was believed that the structures or districts have the potential for meeting
the HISTORIC STRUCTURE criteria of the DOI. In order for these structures to
meet NFIP historic structure criteria, it must be demonstrated and evidenced
that the state’s Department of Archives and History has individually determined
that the structure or district meets DOI historic structure criteria.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Applies to all new and renewed flood
insurance policies effective on and after June 1, 1997. The NFIP shall enable
the purchase of insurance to cover the cost of compliance with land use and
control measures established under § 1361. It provides coverage for the payment
of a claim to help pay for the cost to comply with state or community
floodplain management laws or ordinances after a flood event in which a
building has been declared substantially or repetitively damaged.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items that can withstand exposure to the elements and have low flood
damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant or breakaway
material, void of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be
temperature controlled. If the area is located below the base flood elevation
in an A, AE and A1-A30 Zone, it must meet the requirements of §
19.401b.4. If the area is located below the base flood elevation in a V, VE and
V1-V30 Zone, it must meet the requirements of §
19.406.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). An elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any deck support, exterior walls of a building or proposed building
walls.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For the purpose of this chapter, the Nations Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NCVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or
other datum, to which the base flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) are shown.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929,
elevation reference points set by National Geodetic Survey based on mean sea
level.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) OF 1988. Vertical control, as corrected
in 1988, used as the reference datum on flood insurance rate maps.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structure for which the start of construction commenced on
or after September 12, 2011. The term also includes any subsequent improvements
to such structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after September
12, 2011.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (a)   Built on a single chassis;
      (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. A building covered by a contract for flood insurance that
has incurred flood- related damages on two occasions during a ten-year period
ending on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in which the
cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the building at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316 OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968. Section 1316 of
the Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 4022, provides that no new flood insurance shall be
provided for any property found by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to
have been declared by a state or local authority to be in violation of state or
local ordinances.
   STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION. The first place on the oceanfront where plants
such as sea oats hold sand in place.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as
the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, including a
gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred. Such repairs may be undertaken successively and their costs counted
cumulatively. Please refer to the definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      1.   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project of improvement to a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      2.   Permits shall be cumulative for a period of five years. If the
improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated
with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be
utilized to determine whether SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT will occur.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from a term or terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
ARTICLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
19.301   Designation of Local Floodplain Administrator
   
19.302   Adoption of letter of map revisions (LOMR)
   
19.303   Development permit and certification requirements
   
19.304   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator
   
19.305   Administrative procedures
§ 19.301  DESIGNATION OF LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Clerk or designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.302  ADOPTION OF LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS (LOMR).
   All LOMRs that are issued in the areas identified in §
19.105 are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.303  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   a.   Development permit. Application for a development permit shall be made
to the Local Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to
any development activities. The development permit may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing: the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; and the location of fill materials, storage areas and drainage
facilities. Specifically, the following information is required.
      1.   A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour or a
statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain must be provided by the
development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within the
floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either the Duties and Responsibilities of the
Local Floodplain Administrator of §
19.304 or the Standards for Subdivision Proposals of §
19.402 and the Standards for streams without Estimated Base Flood Elevations
and Floodways of §
19.403. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by it. The plot
plan must show the floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the floodway identified pursuant to either the Duties or
Responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator of §
19.304k. or the Standards for Subdivision Proposals of §
19.402l. and the Standards for Streams Without Estimated Base Flood Elevations
and Floodways of §
19.403.
      2.   Where base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §
19.104 or the duties and responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator
of §
19.304k., the application for a development permit within the flood hazard area
shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure will be flood-proofed in accordance with the
Non-Residential Construction Requirements of §
19.402b., the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure
will be flood-proofed.
      3.   Where base flood elevation data is not provided as set forth in §
19.104 or the Duties and Responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator
of §
19.304k., then the provisions in the Standards for Streams Without Estimated
Base Flood Elevations and Floodways of §
19.403 must be met.
      4.   Where any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development, the application for a development permit shall include a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation, an
engineering study to demonstrate that the flood-carrying capacity of the
altered or relocated watercourse is maintained and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   b.   Certifications.
      1.   Flood-proofing certification. When a structure is flood-proofed, the
applicant shall provide certification from a registered, professional engineer
or architect that the non-residential, flood-proofed structure meets the flood-
proofing criteria in the non-residential construction requirements of §§
19.402b. and 19.405b.2.
      2.   Certification during construction. A lowest floor elevation or
flood-proofing certification is required after the lowest floor is completed.
As soon as possible after completion of the lowest floor and before any further
vertical construction commences, or flood-proofing by whatever construction
means, whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Local Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation
of the lowest floor, or flood-proofed elevation, whichever is applicable, as
built, in relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by it. Any work done prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The Local Floodplain
Administrator shall review the floor elevation survey data submitted. The
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed shall correct deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to
submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      3.   V-Zone certification. When a structure is located in Zones V, VE or
V1-30, certification shall be provided from a registered professional engineer
or architect, separate from submitted plans, that new construction and
substantial improvement meets the criteria for the coastal high hazard areas
outlined in §
19.406e.
      4.   As-built certification. Upon completion of the development, a
registered professional engineer, land surveyor or architect, in accordance
with state law, shall certify according to the requirements of divisions b.1.
through b.3. above that the development is built in accordance with the
submitted plans and previous pre-development certifications.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.304  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
   a.   Permit review. Review all development permits to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   b.   Requirement of federal and/or state permits. Review proposed
development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
33 U.S.C § 1334;
   c.   Watercourse alterations.
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      2.   In addition to the notifications required watercourse alterations
per division c.1. above, written reports of maintenance records must be
maintained to show that maintenance has been provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained. This maintenance must consist of a comprehensive program of
periodic inspections, and routine channel clearing and dredging, or other
related functions. The assurance shall consist of a description of maintenance
activities, frequency of performance and the local official responsible for
maintenance performance. Records shall be kept on file for FEMA inspection.
      3.   If the proposed project will modify the configuration of the
watercourse, floodway or base flood elevation for which a detailed flood
insurance study has been developed, the applicant shall apply for and must
receive approval for a conditional letter of map revision with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency prior to the start of construction.
      4.   Within 60 days of completion of an alteration of a watercourse,
referenced in the certification requirements of §
19.303b.4., the applicant shall submit as-built certification, by a registered
professional engineer, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   d.   Floodway encroachments. Prevent encroachments within floodways unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
19.402e. are met;
   e.   Adjoining floodplains. Cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to the management of adjoining floodplains and/or flood-related erosion
areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards;
   f.   Notifying adjacent communities. Notify adjacent communities prior to
permitting substantial commercial developments and large subdivisions to be
undertaken in areas of special flood hazard and/or flood-related erosion
hazards;
   g.   Certification requirements.
      1.   Obtain and review actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with administrative procedures outlined in §
19.303b.2. or the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined in §
19.406e.
      2.   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with the flood-proofing certification outlined in §
19.303b.1.
      3.   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the non-residential construction requirements outlined in §
19.402b.
      4.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined
in §§
19.406d., 19.406f. and 19.406h. of this chapter.
   h.   Map interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this article;
   i.   Prevailing authority. Where a map boundary showing an area of special
flood hazard and field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations for flood
protection elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table
and the like) shall prevail. The correct information should be submitted to
FEMA as per the map maintenance activity requirements outlined in §
19.402g.2.;
   j.   Use of best available data. When base flood elevation data and floodway
data has not been provided in accordance with §
19.104, obtain, review and reasonably utilize best available base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state or other
source, including data developed pursuant to the standards for subdivision
proposals outlined in §
19.402l., in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. Data from
preliminary, draft and final flood insurance studies constitutes best available
data from a federal, state or other source. Data must be developed using
hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirement of NFIP approved model. If an
appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Part 67.5
and 67.6, the data does not have to be used;
   k.   Special flood hazard area/topographic boundaries conflict. When the
exact location of boundaries of the areas special flood hazards conflict with
the current, natural topography information at the site; the site information
takes precedence when the lowest adjacent grade is at or above the BFE, the
property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA)
by FEMA. The Local Floodplain Administrator in the permit file will maintain a
copy of the Letter of Map Amendment issued from FEMA;
   l.   On-site inspections. Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance
with the administrative procedures outlined in §
19.305a.;
   m.   Administrative notices. Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work
orders, revoke permits and take corrective actions in accordance with the
administrative procedures in §
19.305;
   n.   Records maintenance. Maintain all records pertaining to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
   o.   Annexations and detachments. Notify the state’s Department of Natural
Resources Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program within six months, of any annexations or
detachments that include special flood hazard areas;
   p.   Federally funded development. The President issued Executive Order
11988, Floodplain Management May 1977. Executive Order 11988 directs federal
agencies to assert a leadership role in reducing flood losses and losses to
environmental values served by floodplains. Proposed developments must go
through an eight-step review process. Evidence of compliance with the executive
order must be submitted as part of the permit review process;
   q.   Substantial damage determination. Perform an assessment of damage from
any origin to the structure using FEMA’s Residential Substantial Damage
Estimator (RSDE) software to determine if the damage equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred;
   r.   Substantial improvement determinations. Perform an assessment of permit
applications for improvements or repairs to be made to a building or structure
that equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
start of construction. Cost of work counted for determining if and when
substantial improvement to a structure occurs shall be cumulative for a period
of five years. If the improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of
all costs associated with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first
permit, shall be utilized to determine whether “substantial improvement” will
occur; and
   s.   The market values shall be determined by one of the following methods:
      1.   The current assessed building value as determined by the county’s
assessor’s office or the value of an appraisal performed by a licensed
appraiser at the expense of the owner within the past six months;
      2.   One or more certified appraisals from a registered professional
licensed appraiser in accordance with the laws of the state. The appraisal
shall indicate actual replacement value of the building or structure in its
pre-improvement condition, less the cost of site improvements and depreciation
for functionality and obsolescence; or
      3.   Real estate purchase contract within six months prior to the date of
the application for a permit.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.305  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   a.   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Local Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections
of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according
to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In
exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action.
   b.   Stop-work orders. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The
stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.
The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reasons for the stoppage and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   c.   Revocation of permits. The Local Floodplain Administrator may revoke
and require the return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder
in writing, stating the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
   d.   Periodic inspections. The Local Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   e.   Violations to be corrected. When the Local Floodplain Administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law on the
property he or she owns.
   f.   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give him or her written notice, by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service, that:
      1.   The building or property is in violation of the flood damage
prevention chapter;
      2.   A hearing will be held before the Local Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   Following the hearing, the Local Floodplain Administrator may issue
such order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
   g.   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention chapter,
he or she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to
remedy the violation within such period, not less than 60 days, the Floodplain
Administrator may prescribe; provided that where the Floodplain Administrator
finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may
order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   h.   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   i.   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in the discretion of the court.
   j.   Dental of flood insurance under the NFIP. If a structure is declared in
violation of this chapter and after all other penalties are exhausted to
achieve compliance with this chapter, then the Local Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to initiate a §
1316 of the National Flood insurance Act of 1968 action against the structure
upon the finding that the violator refuses to bring the violation into
compliance with the chapter. Once a violation has been remedied, the Local
Floodplain Administrator shall notify FEMA of the remedy and ask that the §
1316 be rescinded.
   k.   Federal materials adopted. The following documents are incorporated by
reference and may be used by the Local Floodplain Administrator to provide
further guidance and interpretation of this chapter as found on FEMA’s website
at www.fema.gov:
      1.   FEMA 55 Coastal Construction Manual;
      2.   All FEMA Technical Bulletins;
      3.   All FEMA Floodplain Management Bulletins;
      4.   FEMA 348 Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damage; and
      5.   FEMA 499 Home Builder’s Guide to Coastal Construction Technical Fact
Sheets.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
ARTICLE IV: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
Section
   
19.401   General standards
   
19.402   Specific standards
   
19.403   Standards for streams without base flood elevations and floodways
   
19.404   Standards for streams with base flood elevations but without floodways
   
19.405   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
   
19.406   Coastal high hazard areas (V-Zones)
§ 19.401  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   a.   Development may not occur in the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) where
alternative locations exist due to the inherent hazards and risks involved.
Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new structures
cannot be located out of the SFHA and that encroachments onto the SFHA are
minimized.
   b.   In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are
required.
      1.   Reasonably safe from flooding. Review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
      2.   Anchoring . All new construction and substantial improvements shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the
structure.
      3.   Flood-resistant materials and equipment. All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with flood-resistant materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance with Technical
Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 2008,
and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      4.   Minimize flood damage. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages.
      5.   Critical development. Shall be elevated to the 500-year flood
elevation or be elevated to the highest known historical flood elevation (where
records are available), whichever is greater. If no data exists establishing
the 500-year flood elevation or the highest known historical flood elevation,
the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis
that generates 500-year flood elevation data.
      6.   Utilities. Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall
be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of the base flood plus one foot
(freeboard).
      7.   Water supply systems. All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the system.
      8.   Sanitary sewage systems. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters. On-site waste
disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them
or contamination from them during flooding.
      9.   Gas or liquid storage tanks. All gas or liquid storage tanks, either
located above ground or buried, shall be anchored to prevent floatation and
lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
      10.   Alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements. Any alteration,
repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure that is in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the requirements of “new
construction” as contained in this chapter. This includes post-FIRM development
and structures.
      11.   Non-conforming buildings or uses. Non-conforming buildings or uses
may not be enlarged, replaced or rebuilt unless such enlargement or
reconstruction is accomplished in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter; provided, however, nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction or replacement of an existing building or structure located
totally or partially within the floodway, provided that the bulk of the
building or structure below base flood elevation in the floodway is not
increased and provided that such repair, reconstruction or replacement meets
all of the other requirements of this chapter.
      12.   American with Disabilities Act (ADA). A building must meet the
specific standards for floodplain construction outlined in §
19.402, as well as any applicable ADA requirements. The ADA is not
justification for issuing a variance or otherwise waiving these requirements.
Also, the cost of improvements required to meet the ADA provisions shall be
included in the costs of the improvements for calculating substantial
improvement.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.402  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard (Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, V and VE)
where base flood elevation data has been provided, as set forth in §
19.104 or outlined in the Duties and Responsibilities of the Local Floodplain
Administrator §
19.304, the following provisions are required.
   a.   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. No
basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces, shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in division d. below.
   b.   Non-residential construction.
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or non- residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in division d. below. No basements are permitted.
Structures located in A-Zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation,
provided that all areas of the structure below the required elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      2.   A registered, professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in the flood- proofing certification
requirements in §
19.303b.1. A variance may be considered for wet-flood-proofing agricultural
structures in accordance with the criteria outlined in §
19.505. Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of §
19.505 must meet the nonresidential construction standards and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Structures that are flood-proofed are
required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual exercise. The
Local Floodplain Administrator must approve the maintenance plan and
notification of the annual exercise shall be provided to it.
   c.   Manufactured homes.
      1.   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a
flood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      2.   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions for residential construction in division a. above
must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated
no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation, and be securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
      3.   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
and lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in
accordance with § 40-29-10 of the state’s Manufactured Housing Board
Regulations, as amended. Additionally, when the elevation requirement would be
met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade at the
site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered
foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an
engineering certification is required.
      4.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Local Floodplain Administrator and the local
Emergency Preparedness Coordinator.
   d.   Elevated buildings. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building access or limited
storage in an area other than a basement, and which are subject to flooding
shall be designed to preclude finished space and be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of flood waters.
      1.   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed all of the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different walls having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of each opening must be no more than one foot above
the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the opening;
         (c)   Only the portions of openings that are below the base flood
elevation (BFE) can be counted towards the required net open area;
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions; and
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      2.   Hazardous velocities. Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in
the design of any foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for
debris flow exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five feet
per second), foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should be
considered so that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      3.   Enclosures below lowest floor.
         (a)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (b)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms, must be void of utilities except for
essential lighting as required for safety, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
         (c)   One wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground
fault interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions a. through
c. above.
         (d)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions a. through
d. above should be of flood-resistant materials.
   e.   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
19.104, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters that carry debris and
potential projectiles and has erosion potential. The following provisions shall
apply within such areas:
      1.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood. Such certification and technical data
shall be presented to the Local Floodplain Administrator; and
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision must be obtained upon completion of the
proposed development.
      2.   If division e.1. above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this article.
      3.   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of division c. above and the
encroachment standards of division e.1. above are met.
      4.   Permissible uses within floodways may include: general farming,
pasture, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry, wildlife sanctuary,
game farm and other similar agricultural, wildlife, and related uses. Also,
lawns, gardens, play areas, picnic grounds and hiking and horseback riding
trails are acceptable uses, provided that they do not employ structures or
fill. Substantial development of a permissible use may require a no-impact
certification. The uses listed in this division e. are permissible only if and
to the extent that they do not cause any increase in base flood elevations or
changes to the floodway configuration.
   f.   Recreational vehicles.
      1.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is:
         (a)   On wheels or jacking system;
         (b)   Attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and
security devices; and
         (c)   Has no permanently attached additions.
      2.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either be:
         (a)   On site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet the
development permit and certification requirements of §
19.304, general standards outlined in §
19.401, and manufactured homes standards in divisions c. and d. above.
   g.   Map maintenance activities. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
requires flood data to be reviewed and approved by FEMA. This ensures that
flood maps, studies and other data identified in §
19.104 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data. The following map maintenance
activities are identified:
      1.   Requirement to submit new technical data.
         (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations
or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical or
scientific data reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA as soon as
practicable, but no later than six months of the date such information becomes
available. These development proposals include, but are not limited to:
            (i)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            (ii)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed
structures where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special
flood hazard area;
            (iii)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
            (iv)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring
the establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
19.403a.
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical
data, required in accordance with this division g., prepared in a format
required for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map Revision,
and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions
shall also be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (c)   The Local Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional
Letter of Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit
for:
            (i)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
            (ii)   Proposed development which increases the base flood
elevation by more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
         (d)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Local Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division g. below.
      2.   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the local jurisdiction and may be
submitted at any time.
   h.   Accessory structures.
      1.   A detached accessory structure or garage, the cost of which is
greater than $3,000, must comply with the requirements as outlined in FEMA’s
Technical Bulletin 7-93 Wet-Flood-Proofing Requirements or be elevated in
accordance with divisions a. and d. above or dry-flood-proofed in accordance
with division b. above.
      2.   If accessory structures of $3,000 or less are to be placed in the
floodplain, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for any uses other than
the parking of vehicles and storage;
         (b)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be installed in accordance with §
19.401e;
         (f)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below base flood elevation in conformance with division d.1. above;
and
         (g)   Accessory structures shall be built with flood resistance
materials in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, dated August 2008, and available from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are
acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   i.   Swimming pool utility equipment rooms. If the building cannot be built
at or above the BFE, because of functionality of the equipment then a structure
to house the utilities for the pool may be built below the BFE with the
following provisions:
      1.   Meet the requirements for accessory structures in division h. above;
and
      2.   The utilities must be anchored to prevent flotation and shall be
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   j.   Elevators.
      1.   Install a float switch system or another system that provides the
same level of safety necessary for all elevators where there is a potential for
the elevator cab to descend below the BFE during a flood per FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin 4-93 Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood
Hazard Areas.
      2.   All equipment that may have to be installed below the BFE such as
counter weight roller guides, compensation cable and pulleys, and oil buffers
for traction elevators and the jack assembly for a hydraulic elevator must be
constructed using flood-resistant materials where possible per FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin 4-93 Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood
Hazard Areas.
   k.   Fill. An applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative
to raising the building to meet the residential and non-residential
construction requirements of divisions a. or b. above, and that the amount of
fill used will not affect the flood storage capacity or adversely affect
adjacent properties. The following provisions shall apply to all fill placed in
the special flood hazard area:
      1.   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance
with the requirements in division e.1. above;
      2.   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits;
      3.   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. A registered
professional geotechnical engineer may use dredged material as fill only upon
certification of suitability. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps and sanitary fills
are not permitted in the floodplain;
      4.   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-
698, and its suitability to support structures certified by a registered,
professional engineer;
      5.   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two horizontal to one vertical.
Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in erosion;
      6.   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage
problems on neighboring properties;
      7.   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high
hazard areas; and
      8.   Will meet the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01,
Ensuring that Structures Built on Fill in or Near Special Flood Hazard Areas
are Reasonable Safe from Flooding.
   l.   Standards for subdivision proposals and other development.
      1.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations.
      2.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      3.   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
      4.   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in division g. above when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed
that generates base flood elevations.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.403  STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard (Zones A and V),
established in §
19.104, are small streams where no base flood data has been provided and where
no floodways have been identified. The following provisions apply within such
areas.
   a.   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   b.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and new development shall be permitted within 100 feet of the
stream bank unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   c.   If division a. above is satisfied and base flood elevation data is
available from other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements
within such areas shall comply with all applicable flood hazard ordinance
provisions of this article and shall be elevated or flood-proofed in accordance
with elevations established in accordance with §
19.305k.
   d.   Data from preliminary, draft and final flood insurance studies
constitutes best available data. Refer to FEMA Floodplain Management Technical
Bulletin 1-98 Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available Data. If an
appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Part 67.5
and 67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   e.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state or other source, one of the following methods may be used to determine a
BFE. For further information regarding the methods for determining BFEs listed
below, refer to FEMA’s manual Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate
Zone A Areas.
      1.   Contour interpolation.
         (a)   Superimpose approximate Zone A boundaries onto a topographic map
and estimate a BFE.
         (b)   Add one-half of the contour interval of the topographic map that
is used to the BFE.
      2.   Data extrapolation. A BFE can be determined if a site within 500
feet upstream of a reach of a stream reach for which a 100-year profile has
been computed by detailed methods, and the floodplain and channel bottom slope
characteristics are relatively similar to the downstream reaches. No hydraulic
structures shall be present.
      3.   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations. Perform hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine BFEs using FEMA approved methods and
software.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.404  STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT WITHOUT
FLOODWAYS.
   a.   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
provided but no floodway is identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS.
   b.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with
supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.405  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
19.104, are areas designated as shallow flooding. The following provisions
shall apply within such areas.
   a.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall
be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   b.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      1.   Have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be
elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
      2.   Be completely flood-proofed together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities to or above that level so that any space below that level
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as stated
in §
19.304.
   c.   All structures on slopes must have drainage paths around them to guide
water away from the structures.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.406  COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (V-ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §§
19.104 or
19.305k. are areas designated as coastal high hazard areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with wave wash. The following provisions shall
apply within such areas.
   a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be located
landward of the reach of mean high tide, first line of stable natural
vegetation and comply with all applicable Department of Health and
Environmental Control (DHEC) Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM)
setback requirements.
   b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest supporting horizontal structural member
(excluding pilings or columns) of the lowest floor is located no lower than one
foot above the base flood elevation.
   c.   All buildings or structures shall be securely anchored on pilings or
columns, extending vertically below a grade of sufficient depth and the zone of
potential scour, and securely anchored to the subsoil strata.
   d.   All pilings and columns and the attached structures shall be anchored
to resist flotation, collapse, lateral movement and scour due to the effect of
wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components.
   e.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions contained in divisions c. and d. above and divisions f. and i.
below.
   f.   There shall be no fill used as structural support. Non-compacted fill
may be used around the perimeter of a building for landscaping/aesthetic
purposes provided the fill will wash out from storm surge, thereby rendering
the building free of obstruction prior to generating excessive loading forces,
ramping effects or wave deflection. Only beach compatible sand may be used. The
Local Floodplain Administrator shall approve design plans for landscaping/
aesthetic fill only after the applicant has provided an analysis by an
engineer, architect and/or soil scientist that demonstrates that the following
factors have been fully considered:
      1.   Particle composition of fill material does not have a tendency for
excessive natural compaction;
      2.   Volume and distribution of fill will not cause wave deflection to
adjacent properties; and
      3.   Slope of fill will not cause wave run-up or ramping.
   g.   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes that would increase
potential flood damage.
   h.   1.   All new construction and substantial improvements have the space
below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed with non-
supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work or insect screening intended
to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse, displacement
or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the building or
supporting foundation system. For the purpose of this section, a breakaway wall
shall have a design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more
than 20 pounds per square foot. Breakaway wall enclosures shall not exceed 299
square feet. Only flood-resistant materials shall be used below the required
flood elevation specified in §
19.402. One wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground fault
interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in §
19.402.
      2.   Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading resistance
of 20 pounds per square foot may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed meet the following
conditions:
         (a)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood.
         (b)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and nonstructural). The water loading shall be
those values associated with the base flood. The wind loading values shall be
those required by applicable IBC International Building Code.
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be useable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage. Such space shall not be used for human
habitation, finished or partitioned into multiple rooms or temperature-
controlled.
   i.   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of §
19.402c.
   j.   Recreational vehicles shall be permitted in coastal high hazard areas
provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
19.402f. and the temporary structure provisions of division k. below.
   k.   Accessory structures, below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in division b. above, are prohibited except for the following.
      1.   Swimming pools:
         (a)   Are installed at-grade or elevated so long as the pool will not
act as an obstruction;
         (b)   Must be structurally independent of the building and its
foundation;
         (c)   May be placed beneath a coastal building only if the top of the
pool and any accompanying decking or walkway are flush with the existing grade
and only if the lower area remains unenclosed; and
         (d)   As part of the certification process for V-Zone buildings, the
design professional must consider the effects that any of these elements will
have on the building in question and any nearby buildings.
      2.   Access stairs attached to or beneath an elevated building:
         (a)   Must be constructed of flood-resistant materials; and
         (b)   Must be constructed as open staircases so they do not block flow
under the structure in accordance with division b. above.
      3.   Decks.
         (a)   If the deck is structurally attached to a building, then the
bottom of the lowest horizontal member must be at or above the elevation of the
buildings lowest horizontal member.
         (b)   If the deck is to be built below the BFE, then it must be
structurally independent of the main building and must not cause an
obstruction.
         (c)   If an at-grade, structurally independent deck is proposed, then
a design professional must evaluate the design to determine if it will
adversely affect the building and nearby buildings.
   l.   Parking areas should be located on a stable grade under or landward of
a structure. Any parking surface shall consist of gravel or aggregate.
   m.   Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
equipment (including ductwork) and other service facilities shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of base flood event plus one foot. This
requirement does not exclude the installation of outdoor faucets for shower
heads, sinks, hoses and the like, as long as cut off devices and back flow
prevention devices are installed to prevent contamination to the service
components and thereby minimize any flood damages to the building. No utilities
or components shall be attached to breakaway walls.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
ARTICLE V: VARIANCE PROCEDURES
Section
   
19.501   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
19.502   Right to appeal
   
19.503   Historic structures
   
19.504   Functionally dependent uses
   
19.505   Agricultural structures
   
19.506   Considerations
   
19.507   Findings
   
19.508   Floodways
   
19.509   Conditions
§ 19.501  ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The county zoning Board of Appeal, as established by the town, shall hear
and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.502  RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any taxpayer may
appeal such decision to the court.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.503  HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.504  FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USES.
   Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependant use, provided the criteria of this article are met, no
reasonable alternative exist and the development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage and create no additional threat to public safety.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.505  AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued to wet-flood-proof an agricultural structure
provided it is used solely for agricultural purposes. In order to minimize
flood damages during the base flood and the threat to public health and safety,
the structure must meet all of the conditions and considerations of §
19.508, this section and the following standards.
   a.   Use of the structure must be limited to agricultural purposes as listed
below:
      1.   Pole frame buildings with open or closed sides used exclusively for
the storage of farm machinery and equipment;
      2.   Steel grain bins and steel frame corncribs;
      3.   General-purpose barns for the temporary feeding of livestock that
are open on at least one side; and/or
      4.   For livestock confinement buildings, poultry houses, dairy
operations and similar livestock operations, variances may not be issued for
structures that were substantially damaged. New construction or substantial
improvement of such structures must meet the elevation requirements of §
19.402b.
   b.   The agricultural structure must be built or rebuilt, in the case of an
existing building that is substantially damaged, with flood-resistant materials
for the exterior and interior building components and elements below the base
flood elevation.
   c.   The agricultural structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. All of the structure’s components must
be capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, hydrodynamic and debris impact forces. Where flood velocities exceed
five feet per second, fast-flowing flood waters can exert considerable pressure
on the building’s enclosure walls or foundation walls.
   d.   The agricultural structure must meet the venting requirement of §
19.402d.
   e.   Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment must be located
above the base flood elevation (BFE), plus any required freeboard, or be
contained within a watertight, flood-proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
19.401e.
   f.   The agricultural structure must comply with the floodway encroachment
provisions of §
19.402e.
   g.   Major equipment, machinery or other contents must be protected. Such
protection may include protective watertight flood-proofed areas within the
building, the use of equipment hoists for readily elevating contents,
permanently elevating contents on pedestals or shelves above the base flood
elevation, or determining that property owners can safely remove contents
without risk to lives and that the contents will be located to a specified site
out of the floodplain.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.506  CONSIDERATIONS.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and:
   a.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage, and
the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
   e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   f.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development, and the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
   h.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   i.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges; and
   j.   Agricultural structures must be located in wide, expansive floodplain
areas, where no other alternative location for the agricultural structure
exists. The applicant must demonstrate that the entire farm acreage, consisting
of a contiguous parcel of land on which the structure is to be located, must be
in the Special Flood Hazard Area and no other alternative locations for the
structure are available.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.507  FINDINGS.
   Findings listed above shall be submitted to the Appeal Board, in writing,
and included in the application for a variance. Additionally, comments from the
Department of Natural Resources, Land, Water and Conservation Division, State
Coordinator’s office, must be taken into account and included in the permit
file.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.508  FLOODWAYS.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result unless a CLOMR is
obtained prior to issuance of the variance. In order to ensure the project is
built in compliance with the CLOMR for which the variance is granted, the
applicant must provide a bond for 100% of the cost to perform the development.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.509  CONDITIONS.
   a.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   b.   The following conditions shall apply to all variances.
      1.   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship and a determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      4.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk. Such
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      5.   The Local Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request.
      6.   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or other
development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Violations must be corrected in accordance with §
19.305e.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
ARTICLE VI: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
19.601   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing ordinance
   
19.602   Effect upon outstanding building permits
§ 19.601  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING ORDINANCE.
   This article in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted September 12, 2011 and it is
not the intention to repeal but rather to re- enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town enacted on September 12, 2011, as amended, which are not reenacted
herein, are repealed.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 19.602  EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building Inspector or
his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this article;
provided, however, that when start of construction has not occurred under such
outstanding permit within a period of 60 days subsequent to passage of this
article, construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
ARTICLE VII: PENALTIES
Section
   
19.701   Penalty; exceptions
§ 19.701  PENALTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   a.   Unless otherwise provided, any person, persons, firm, company or
representative of any firm or company violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   b.   Each day during which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
occurs, or each separate instance, shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days,
or both.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-65)  (Prior Code, § 19.201)
APPENDICES
   Appendix
      A.   SAMPLE ORDINANCE
      B.   MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      C.   ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED BY THIS CODE
APPENDIX A: SAMPLE ORDINANCE
Editor’s note:
   The following is a sample ordinance to illustrate one way of amending this
code. The amended section has been chosen arbitrarily, as an example only, and
it is not to be considered as official action.
   On the following pages, additional suggestions are listed for the guidance
and convenience of municipal officials when ordinances are to be considered.
All ordinances are required, by this code, to be numbered. They should either
be an amendment to this code, or a new section/chapter to be added.
                                                                               
                                                               
SAMPLE ORDINANCE FORM   SAMPLE ORDINANCE FORM
ORDINANCE NO.              
AN ORDINANCE ENTITLED
CHANGE IN TIME OF REGULAR COUNCIL MEETINGS
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF COTTAGEVILLE, SOUTH
CAROLINA:
SECTION 1.  Section 2.301 of the Town Code is hereby amended by rescinding the
time authorized for regular Council meetings (7:00 p.m.) and inserting in lieu
thereof “1:30 p.m.”, so that when amended the time for regularly scheduled
meetings of Council shall be 1:30 p.m.
(THIS IS SAMPLE WORDING ONLY)
SECTION 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
(THIS PARAGRAPH CANCELS ANY CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.)
SECTION 3. Any chapter, article, section or division, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance is for any reason declared to be unconstitutional or
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(THIS PARAGRAPH LIMITS ANY RULING BY THE COURTS TO THE SPECIFIC SECTION TO
WHICH THE RULING APPLIED.)
SECTION 4. This ordinance shall become effective upon its final adoption.
(ALL ORDINANCES MUST HAVE AN EFFECTIVE DATE.)
                                                                              
                                         
First Reading                           Albert (Bert) Reeves, Mayor
                                                                              
                                         
Second Reading                           Jean Acosta, Council Member
                                                                               
                       
                                    Jimmy Ramsey, Council Member
ATTEST:                                                                       
                         
                                    Danny Reeves, Council Member
                                                                              
                                         
Town Clerk                              Carl Strickland, Council Member
(ALL ORDINANCES MUST HAVE TWO READINGS, AT LEAST SIX DAYS APART, AND MUST BE
SIGNED BY THE MAYOR AND SIGNED AND ATTESTED BY THE MUNICIPAL CLERK.)
ADDITIONAL NOTES TO BE USED AS GUIDANCE FOR AMENDMENTS TO THIS CODE:
   1.   Some municipalities prefer to repeal the entire amended section and
have it retyped in its entirety to avoid future confusion or misunderstanding
as to the intent of Council. Others prefer the “short version”, as above. This
is especially true if the amended section is lengthy. Either way is local
choice.
   2.   If a date other than that of second reading is to be the effective
date, it should be inserted accordingly as a part of section 3 (of the sample
ordinance) or the appropriate section number in the amending ordinance.
Example: “effective on July 1, 2004”.
   3.   More space than that shown in the sample ordinance can be utilized
between sections, the date of readings and the signatures of the Mayor and
Administrator-Clerk to space it more aesthetically on the page.
   4.   Upon adoption of the ordinance, the original copy, with signatures,
should be placed in the “Book of Ordinances” (as discussed in § 2.203 of this
code).
   5.   Also upon adoption, the official copy of the code should be amended
accordingly and copies reproduced and distributed to the holders of the code
and inserted in any extra copies that have not been distributed, to keep all
copies current. The Clerk/Treasurer should retain a list of all persons to whom
a code has been distributed so that they may receive copies of future
amendments. Such amendments are called “Supplements”.
   6.   When the code is amended, each change should be noted by Supplement
number and date at the bottom of the amended page, left hand corner, to denote
the change. Example: Supplements. 8-5-2004, Supplement #2. 10-1-2004, and the
like.
   7.   Such changes should be noted also in the general Table of Contents,
Chapter Table of Contents and the Index, as appropriate. Maintaining a
chronological list of all supplements in the “Book of Ordinances” by date of
supplement will prove helpful for future reference.
   8.   For emergency ordinances, see §
2.211 of this code.
   9.   Amending or repealing ordinances should be noted on the original copy
of the ordinance repealed or amended, as required by law and as codified in §
2.204 of this code.
   10.   As to updating this code, some municipalities prefer to do so as
amendments are made; others prefer doing so on a quarterly, semiannual or
annual basis. This code requires, at a minimum, an annual update. If a
different updating schedule is preferred, the requirement should be amended
accordingly. (See § 2.207 of this code.)
APPENDIX B: MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT
EXCERPT
1976 CODE OF LAWS OF SOUTH CAROLINA
CHAPTER 9
MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
   
5-9-10   Applicability of Chapter 7
   
5-9-20   Structure of Mayor-Council form of government; election of Council
members
   
5-9-30   Responsibilities and powers of Mayor
   
5-9-40   Establishment of municipal departments, offices and agencies by
Council; employment of administrator to assist Mayor; offices and agencies
under direction of Mayor administered by officer appointed by Mayor
§ 5-9-10  APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER 7.
   Except as specifically provided for in this chapter, the structure,
organization, powers, duties, functions and responsibilities of municipal
government under the Mayor-Council form shall be as prescribed in Chapter 7.
§ 5-9-20  STRUCTURE OF MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT; ELECTION OF COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
   Under the Mayor-Council form of government there shall be a municipal
Council composed of a Mayor and not less than four Council members. The members
of Council shall be elected in accordance with Chapter 15.
§ 5-9-30  RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief administrative officer of the municipality. He
or she shall be responsible to the Council for the administration of all city
affairs placed in his or her charge by or under Chapters 1 through 17. He or
she shall have the following powers and duties:
   a.   To appoint and, when he or she deems it necessary for the good of the
municipality, suspend or remove all municipal employees and appointive
administrative officers provided for by or under Chapters 1 through 17, except
as otherwise provided by law, or personnel rules adopted pursuant to Chapters 1
through 17. He or she may authorize any administrative officer who is subject
to his or her direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect
to subordinates in that officer’s department, office or agency;
   b.   To direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices
and agencies of the municipality except as otherwise provided by Chapters 1
through 17;
   c.   To preside at meetings of the Council and vote as other Council
members;
   d.   To act to ensure that all laws, provisions of Chapters 1 through 17 and
ordinances of the Council, subject to enforcement by him or her or by officers
subject to his or her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
   e.   To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the
Council;
   f.   To submit to the Council and make available to the public a complete
report on the finances and  administrative activities of the municipality as of
the end of each fiscal year; and
   g.   To make such other reports as the Council may require concerning the
operations of municipal departments, offices and agencies subject to his or her
direction and supervision.
§ 5-9-40  ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENTS, OFFICES AND AGENCIES BY
COUNCIL; EMPLOYMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR TO ASSIST MAYOR; OFFICES AND AGENCIES
UNDER DIRECTION OF MAYOR ADMINISTERED BY OFFICER APPOINTED BY MAYOR.
   a.   The Council may establish municipal departments, offices and agencies
in addition to those created by Chapters 1 through 17 and may prescribe the
functions of all departments, offices and agencies, except that no function
assigned by law to a particular department, office or agency may be
discontinued or assigned to any other agency. The Mayor and Council may employ
an administrator to assist the Mayor in his or her office.
   b.   All departments, offices and agencies under the direction and
supervision of the Mayor shall be administered by an officer appointed by and
subject to the direction and supervision of the Mayor.
APPENDIX C: ORDINANCES NOT REPEALED BY THIS CODE
Editor’s note:
   As pointed out in the enacting ordinance of this code, certain ordinances
have not been codified due to the nature of the ordinance. These have been
listed below. The original of each ordinance listed below is maintained, where
appropriate, by the Clerk/Treasurer.
Those ordinances which pertain to the following are not included:
   a.   Annexation;
   b.   Assessments;
   c.   Bonded indebtedness;
   d.   Budgets;
   e.   Buildings;
   f.   Business licenses;
   g.   Contracts;
   h.   Franchises;
   i.   Grant agreements;
   j.   Leases;
   k.   Loans;
   l.   Options;
   m.   Planning and zoning;
   n.   Property conveyances;
   o.   Sale, lease or contract to sell lands;
   p.   Subdivision plats;
   q.   Telecommunications; and
   r.   Tax levies and other charges.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   PROCLAMATIONS
      
V.   ZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date       Description
         Passed
Res.     9-12-2005  Agreement with association for the collection of debt
2005-2
Res.     4-2-2007   Loan agreement with Enterprise Bank
2007-1
Res.     5-7-2007   Agreement to join the state’s Local Government Assurance
2007-2              Group
Res.     6-2-2008   Loan agreement for new police cars
2008-4
Res.     7-7-2008   Loan agreement with BB&T
2008-5
Ord. -   12-14-2009 Agreement for the repayment of fines and assessments
Ord.     12-14-2009 Repayment agreement with the State Treasurer
2009-6
Ord.     5-9-2011   Authorization of a loan
2011-5
Res.     9-12-2011  Agreement with the state’s Association of Counties
2011-9
Res.     10-3-2011  Lease agreement for class rooms
2011-11
Res.     1-13-2012  Authorization to obtain a one-time emergency loan
2012-1
Ord.     10-5-2015  Lease agreement with ARRES, LLC
2015-02
Ord.     4-4-2016   Authorizing the sale of the old police station
2016-03
Ord.     5-8-2017   Agreement for the installation of solar panels
2017-03
Res.     10-2-2017  Contract for recreation construction
2017-02
Res.     11-25-2019 Partnership for the 2020 census
2019-02
                   
 
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
Ord. 2011-6 6-11-2011   Granting a franchise to an electric company
Ord. 2011-8 8-1-2011    Granting a franchise for towing and storage services
Ord. 2012-4 1-7-2013    Granting a contract to provide garbage/recycling
                        services
Ord. 2014-1 2-3-2014    Granting a franchise for towing and storage services
                       
 
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Ord. 2005-1  4-4-2005    Annexation of 40 acres
Ord. 2007-02 10-1-2007   Annexation of seven acres
                        
 
 
TABLE IV: PROCLAMATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. -       9-13-2004   Domestic violence awareness month
Res. -       9-13-2004   Industry appreciation week
Res. -       4-4-2005    Municipal Clerks’ week
Res. -       10-1-2007   Domestic violence awareness month
Res. -       10-6-2008   Domestic violence awareness month
Res. -       5-4-2009    Municipal Clerks’ week
Res. 2009-2  10-5-2009   Domestic violence awareness month
Res. 2013-01 4-1-2013    Fair housing month
Res. -       5-6-2013    Peace Officers’ memorial day
Res. 2014-01 5-5-2014    Peace Officers’ memorial day
Res. 2015-01 5-4-2015    Peace Officers’ memorial day
Res. 2016-01 5-2-2016    Peace Officers’ memorial day
                        
 
 
TABLE V: ZONING
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
Ord. 2006-2 4-3-2006    Zoning change from neighborhood commercial to
                        commercial
Ord. 2006-3 4-3-2006    Zoning change from neighborhood commercial to
                        commercial
Ord. 2007-1 10-1-2007   Zoning change from neighborhood commercial to
                        commercial
                       
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Section Code Section
S.C. Code Section    Code Section
2-2088 – 2-2091    14.401
Title 5              19.102
5-5-10               2.101
                     2.201,
                     2.206,
                     Ch. 3 Art. II,
                     8.113,
                     13.302,
                     14.202,
5-7-30               14.610,
                     14.709,
                     16.212,
                     16.213,
                     16.216,
                     16.301,
                     18.311,
                     18.312
5-7-80               Ch. 10 Art. III,
                     16.209
5-7-120              13.116
5-7-130              2.314
5-7-160              2.309
5-7-170              2.105
5-7-190              2.107
                     Ch. 2 Art. VI,
5-7-220              2.601,
                     2.603
5-7-230              Ch. 2 Art. VII
5-7-240              8.112
5-7-250              2.211,
                     2.212
5-7-250 – 5-7-280  2.211
5-7-250(d)           2.211
                     2.206,
5-7-260              8.113,
                     Ch. 13 Art. I
                     2.202,
5-7-270              2.208,
                     2.210
5-7-290              2.203,
                     2.207
5-9-10               2.106
5-9-10 et seq.       2.101
5-9-30               2.417,
                     Ch. 2 Art. VIII
5-9-40               8.103
5-13-30              2.314
5-15-20              2.412
5-15-20 et seq.      2.401
5-15-40              2.103
5-15-40 et seq.      Ch. 2 Art. IV,
                     2.402
5-15-50              2.403,
                     2.409
5-15-62              2.414
5-15-62 et seq.      2.414
5-15-70              2.405
5-15-100             2.402
5-15-125             2.414
5-15-130             2.414
5-15-145             2.402
5-15-150             2.108
5-17-10              2.209
Title 5, Chapter 27  Ch. 16 Art. I
5-27-910             Ch. 9 Art. I,
                     14.620
Title 6              19.102
6-1-80               8.105
7-5-120              2.104,
                     2.416
7-13-60              2.404
7-13-1380            2.410
8-7-90               2.806
8-13-700             2.314
11-35-5320           Ch. 8 Art. III
14-25-15             2.108
14-25-45             1.204
                     1.104,
                     1.401,
                     3.301,
                     4.201,
                     5.601,
                     6.201,
                     7.301,
                     8.601,
14-25-65             9.201,
                     10.501,
                     11.201,
                     13.401,
                     14.1105,
                     15.501,
                     16.501,
                     18.103,
                     18.801,
                     19.701
                     14.606,
14-25-90             14.614,
                     14.616
15-1-320             1.204
15-43-10             14.604
16-1-40              13.308
16-3                 Ch. 14 Art. IX
16-3-600             14.901
16-3-1020            14.909
16-5-50              13.303
16-5-120             14.708
16-5-130             14.708
16-9-420             13.310
16-11                14.806
16-11-510            14.802
16-11-520            14.802
16-11-620            14.803
16-11-700            Ch. 16 Art. IV
16-13-30             14.804
16-13-110            14.808
16-13-180            14.805
16-13-240            14.805
16-13-290            14.807
16-15-90             14.602,
                     14.603
16-15-90 et seq.     14.601
16-15-130            14.607
16-15-305            14.606
16-17-420            14.617
16-17-520            14.707
16-17-530            14.613,
                     14.701
16-17-570            9.101
16-19-40             14.503
16-19-120            14.506
16-23-405            14.704
16-23-460            14.703
17-25-110            14.701
19-3-10              2.202
23-15-70             13.302
23-20-30             13.115
                     2.303,
Title 30, Chapter 4  2.304,
                     2.322
30-4-80              2.301
30-4-80(A)           2.306
31-15-20             5.104
Ch. 31-21            5.402
34-11-60             14.812
40-41-310            14.619
44-1-20 to 44-1-315  10.101,
                     14.311
Title 44, Chapter 53 14.621
44-55-210            10.401
47-3-10              3.101
47-3-710 et seq.     3.104
Title 56             18.238,
                     Ch. 18 Art. III
56-1-20              18.107
56-1-30              18.107
56-3-110 et seq.     18.107
56-3-1965            18.304
56-3-1970            18.304
56-3-1971            18.304
Title 56, Chapter 5  18.101,
                     18.102
56-1-10(28)          18.201
56-5-760             Ch. 9 Art. I
56-5-930             18.105
56-5-1230 et seq.    18.230
56-5-1520 et seq.    18.221
56-5-1960            9.103
56-5-2530            16.105,
                     18.312
56-5-2920            18.202
56-5-2930            18.229
56-5-3850            9.105
56-05-5015(k)        18.237
56-5-6150            18.103
56-7-80              Ch. 14 Art. I
57-3-110(11)         14.609
57-7-20              16.206
58-12-120            8.501
                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1.202              1.201
1.203              1.202
1.204              1.203
1.205              1.204
1.206              1.205
1.208              1.206
1.209              1.207
1.210              1.208
1.213              1.209
1.214              1.210
1.215              1.211
1.401              1.401
2.101              2.101
2.102              2.102
2.103              2.103
2.104              2.104
2.105              2.105
2.106              2.106
2.107              2.107
2.108              2.108
2.201              2.201
2.202              2.202
2.203              2.203
2.204              2.204
2.205              2.205
2.206              2.206
2.207              2.207
2.208              2.208
2.209              2.209
2.210              2.210
2.211              2.211
2.212              2.212
2.213              2.213
2.214              2.214
2.301              2.301
2.302              2.302
2.303              2.303
2.304              2.304
2.306              2.306
2.307              2.307
2.308              2.308
2.309              2.309
2.310              2.310
2.311              2.311
2.313              2.313
2.314              2.314
2.315              2.315
2.316              2.316
2.317              2.317
2.318              2.318
2.319              2.319
2.320              2.320
2.321              2.321
2.322              2.322
2.401              2.401
2.402              2.402
2.403              2.403
2.404              2.404
2.405              2.405
2.406              2.406
2.407              2.407
2.408              2.408
2.409              2.409
2.410              2.410
2.411              2.411
2.412              2.412
2.413              2.413
2.414              2.414
2.415              2.415
2.416              2.416
2.501              2.501
2.502              2.502
2.503              2.503
2.504              2.504
2.601              2.601
2.602              2.602
2.603              2.603
2.604              2.604
2.701              2.701
2.702              2.702
2.703              2.703
2.801              2.801
2.802              2.802
2.803              2.803
2.804              2.804
2.805              2.805
2.806              2.806
2.807              2.807
2.808              2.808
3.101              3.101
3.102              3.102
3.103              3.103
3.104              3.104
3.105              3.105
3.106              3.106
3.107              3.107
3.108              3.108
3.109              3.109
3.110              3.110
3.111              3.111
3.112              3.112
3.113              3.113
3.114              3.114
3.115              3.115
3.201              3.201
3.202              3.202
3.203              3.203
3.204              3.204
3.301              3.301
4.101              4.101
4.102              4.102
4.103              4.103
4.104              4.104
4.105              4.105
4.106              4.106
4.107              4.107
4.201              4.201
5.101              5.101
5.102              5.102
5.103              5.103
5.104              5.104
5.105              5.105
5.106              5.106
5.107              5.107
5.201              5.201
5.202              5.202
5.203              5.203
5.204              5.204
5.205              5.205
5.206              5.206
5.301              5.301
5.401              5.401
5.402              5.402
5.601              5.601
6.101              6.101
6.102              6.102
6.103              6.103
6.201              6.201
7.101              7.101
7.102              7.102
7.103              7.103
7.104              7.104
7.105              7.105
7.106              7.106
7.107              7.107
7.108              7.108
7.202              7.201
7.301              7.301
8.101              8.101
8.102              8.102
8.103              8.103
8.104              8.104
8.105              8.105
8.106              8.106
8.107              8.107
8.108              8.108
8.109              8.109
8.110              8.110
8.111              8.111
8.112              8.112
8.113              8.113
8.114              8.114
8.301              8.301
8.302              8.302
8.303              8.303
8.304              8.304
8.305              8.305
8.306              8.306
8.307              8.307
8.308              8.308
8.309              8.309
8.310              8.310
8.311              8.311
8.312              8.312
8.313              8.313
8.314              8.314
8.315              8.315
8.401              8.401
8.402              8.402
8.403              8.403
8.501              8.601
9.101              9.101
9.102              9.102
9.103              9.103
9.104              9.104
9.105              9.105
9.106              9.106
9.107              9.107
9.108              9.108
9.109              9.109
9.110              9.110
9.111              9.111
9.112              9.112
9.201              9.201
10.101             10.101
10.102             10.102
10.103             10.103
10.104             10.104
10.105             10.105
10.301             10.301
10.302             10.302
10.303             10.303
10.304             10.304
10.401             10.401
10.402             10.402
10.403             10.403
10.501             10.501
11.101             11.101
11.201             11.201
13.101             13.101
13.102             13.102
13.103             13.103
13.104             13.104
13.105             13.105
13.106             13.106
13.107             13.107
13.108             13.108
13.109             13.109
13.110             13.110
13.111             13.111
13.112             13.112
13.113             13.113
13.114             13.114
13.115             13.115
13.116             13.116
13.117             13.117
13.201             13.201
13.202             13.202
13.203             13.203
13.204             13.204
13.205             13.205
13.206             13.206
13.207             13.207
13.208             13.208
13.301             13.301
13.302             13.302
13.303             13.303
13.304             13.304
13.305             13.305
13.306             13.306
13.307             13.307
13.308             13.308
13.309             13.309
13.310             13.310
13.311             13.311
13.312             13.312
13.401             13.401
14.101             14.101
14.201             14.201
14.202             14.202
14.203             14.203
14.301             14.301
14.302             14.302
14.303             14.303
14.304             14.304
14.305             14.305
14.306             14.306
14.307             14.307
14.308             14.308
14.309             14.309
14.310             14.310
14.311             14.311
14.312             14.312
14.313             14.313
14.314             14.314
14.315             14.315
14.316             14.316
14.401             14.401
14.402             14.402
14.403             14.403
14.404             14.404
14.501             14.501
14.502             14.502
14.503             14.503
14.504             14.504
14.505             14.505
14.506             14.506
14.507             14.507
14.508             14.508
14.601             14.601
14.602             14.602
14.603             14.603
14.604             14.604
14.605             14.605
14.606             14.606
14.607             14.607
14.608             14.608
14.609             14.609
14.610             14.610
14.611             14.611
14.612             14.612
14.613             14.613
14.614             14.614
14.615             14.615
14.616             14.616
14.617             14.617
14.618             14.618
14.619             14.619
14.621             14.620
14.701             14.701
14.702             14.702
14.703             14.703
14.704             14.704
14.705             14.705
14.706             14.706
14.707             14.707
14.708             14.708
14.709             14.709
14.710             14.710
14.711             14.711
14.712             14.712
14.713             14.713
14.801             14.801
14.802             14.802
14.803             14.803
14.804             14.804
14.805             14.805
14.806             14.806
14.807             14.807
14.808             14.808
14.809             14.809
14.810             14.810
14.811             14.811
14.812             14.812
14.813             14.813
14.814             14.814
14.815             14.815
14.816             14.816
14.817             14.817
14.818             14.818
14.819             14.819
14.901             14.901
14.902             14.902
14.903             14.903
14.904             14.904
14.905             14.905
14.906             14.906
14.907             14.907
14.908             14.908
14.909             14.909
14.1001            14.1001
14.1002            14.1002
14.1003            14.1003
14.1004            14.1004
14.1101            14.1101
14.1102            14.1102
14.1103            14.1103
14.1104            14.1104
14.1105            14.1105
15.101             15.101
15.102             15.102
15.103             15.103
15.201             15.201
15.203             15.202
15.301             15.301
15.302             15.302
15.303             15.303
15.304             15.304
15.401             15.401
15.402             15.402
15.403             15.403
15.501             15.501
16.101             16.101
16.102             16.102
16.103             16.103
16.104             16.104
16.105             16.105
16.106             16.106
16.201             16.201
16.202             16.202
16.203             16.203
16.204             16.204
16.205             16.205
16.206             16.206
16.207             16.207
16.208             16.208
16.209             16.209
16.210             16.210
16.211             16.211
16.212             16.212
16.213             16.213
16.214             16.214
16.215             16.215
16.216             16.216
16.217             16.217
16.218             16.218
16.219             16.219
16.220             16.220
16.221             16.221
16.222             16.222
16.301             16.301
16.302             16.302
16.303             16.303
16.304             16.304
16.305             16.305
16.401             16.401
16.402             16.402
16.403             16.403
16.501             16.501
18.101             18.101
18.102             18.102
18.103             18.103
18.104             18.104
18.105             18.105
18.106             18.106
18.107             18.107
18.108             18.108
18.109             18.109
18.110             18.110
18.111             18.111
18.202             18.202
18.203             18.203
18.204             18.204
18.205             18.205
18.206             18.206
18.207             18.207
18.208             18.208
18.209             18.209
18.210             18.210
18.211             18.211
18.212             18.212
18.213             18.213
18.214             18.214
18.215             18.215
18.216             18.216
13.217             18.217
13.218             18.218
18.219             18.219
18.220             18.220
18.221             18.221
18.222             18.222
18.223             18.223
18.224             18.224
18.225             18.225
18.226             18.226
18.227             18.227
18.228             18.228
18.229             18.229
18.230             18.230
18.231             18.231
18.232             18.232
18.233             18.233
18.234             18.234
18.235             18.235
18.236             18.236
18.237             18.239
18.301             18.301
18.302             18.302
18.303             18.303
18.304             18.304
18.305             18.305
18.306             18.306
18.307             18.307
18.308             18.308
18.309             18.309
18.310             18.310
18.311             18.311
18.312             18.312
18.401             18.401
18.402             18.402
18.403             18.403
18.404             18.404
18.405             18.405
18.406             18.406
18.407             18.407
18.408             18.408
18.501             18.501
18.502             18.502
18.503             18.503
18.601             18.601
18.602             18.602
18.603             18.603
18.701             18.801
19.101             19.101
19.201             19.701
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      9-13-2004   TSO Table IV
–      9-13-2004   TSO Table IV
–      4-4-2005    TSO Table IV
2005-2   9-12-2005   TSO Table I
2007-1   4-2-2007    TSO Table I
2007-2   5-7-2007    TSO Table I
–      10-1-2007   TSO Table IV
2008-3   4-7-2008    1.301
2008-4   6-2-2008    TSO Table I
2008-5   7-7-2008    TSO Table I
–      10-6-2008   TSO Table IV
–      5-4-2009    TSO Table IV
2009-1   5-4-2009    1.212
2009-2   10-5-2009   TSO Table IV
2011-9   9-12-2011   TSO Table I
2011-11  10-3-2011   TSO Table I
2012-1   1-13-2012   TSO Table I
2012-2   5-7-2012    5.401
2013-01  4-1-2013    TSO Table IV
–      5-6-2013    TSO Table IV
2014-01  5-5-2014    TSO Table IV
2015-01  5-4-2015    TSO Table IV
2016-01  5-2-2016    TSO Table IV
2017-02  10-2-2017   TSO Table I
2019-02  11-25-2019  TSO Table I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1990-1114 12-12-1990  14.817
99-3      12-6-1999   2.603
1-04      2-2-2004    2.414
2004-3    11-15-2004  1.102 –
                      1.104
2005-1    4-4-2005    TSO Table III
06-0101   2-8-2006    14.817
2006-2    4-3-2006    TSO Table V
2006-3    4-3-2006    TSO Table V
2006-8    9-11-2006   10.305
2006-7    10-2-2006   8.501
2006-10   - -         5.201
2007-1    10-1-2007   TSO Table V
2007-02   10-1-2007   TSO Table III
–       4-7-2008    1.302
2008-3    7-7-2008    13.207,
                      13.208
2008-5    11-17-2008  18.201
2008-6    12-1-2008   2.323
2008-7    12-1-2008   2.809
2009-4    8-3-2009    14.621
2009-5    11-2-2009   2.105
-         12-14-2009  TSO Table I
2009-6    12-14-2009  TSO Table I
2011-1    3-7-2011    2.417
2011-5    5-9-2011    TSO Table I
2011-6    6-11-2011   TSO Table II
2011-7    8-1-2011    5.501 –
                      5.503
2011-8    8-1-2011    TSO Table II
2012-4    1-7-2013    TSO Table II
2012-05   1-7-2013    2.406
2014-1    2-3-2014    TSO Table II
2014-03   5-5-2014    18.237
2014-04   5-5-2014    14.622
2014-05   5-5-2014    18.701 –
                      18.706
2014-07   8-4-2014    14.405
2014-08   8-4-2014    18.238
2015-02   10-5-2015   TSO Table I
2016-03   4-4-2016    TSO Table I
2016-05   10-3-2016   14.817
2017-03   5-8-2017    TSO Table I
                      19.102 –
                      19.110,
                      19.201,
                      19.301-
                      19.305,
2017-05   12-4-2017   19.401-
                      19.406,
                      19.501-
                      19.509,
                      19.601,
                      19.602
2018-01   4-2-2018    13.118
2018-03   4-2-2018    2.901 –
                      2.911
2018-04   6-4-2018    2.810
2019-07   6-24-2019   7.109
                     
 
 
