DILLON, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-32 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 25-05, passed 6-9-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF DILLON, SOUTH CAROLINA
 
MAYOR                         Nicholas Tally McColl
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Dr. Phil Wallace              Douglas Jackson
Timothy Cousar, Mayor Pro-Tem Johnny Eller
James Washington              James W. David
 
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY MANAGER              Glen Wagner
FINANCE DIRECTOR          Janet W. Bethea
CLERK TO COUNCIL          Tina Scott
MUNICIPAL JUDGE           Mackie Hayes
ASSISTANT MUNICIPAL JUDGE Alan L. Berry, Jr.
FIRE CHIEF                Keith Bailey
CODE ENFORCEMENT          Benny Genwright
POLICE CHIEF              David Lane
CITY ATTORNEY             Janet Altman Paschal
PUBLIC WORKS              Burt Rogers
PUBLIC UTILITIES          Hardy Jackson
PARKS & RECREATION        Kevin Scott
 
TITLE 1: GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
2.   GOVERNING BODY
   
3.   RULES OF PROCEDURE AND ORDINANCES
   
4.   ADMINISTRATION
   
5.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
   
6.   MUNICIPAL COURT
   
7.   ELECTIONS
   
8.   PERSONNEL POLICIES (repealed by Ord. 05-15, passed 10-10-2005)
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
1-1-1   Form of Government Adopted
1-1-2   Corporate Limits
§ 1-1-1 FORM OF GOVERNMENT ADOPTED.
   The Council-Manager form of municipal government with a Mayor and six (6)
Council members, as provided in S.C. Code §§ 5-13-10 through 5-13-100 is hereby
adopted for the city.
(1977 Code, § 1-1001)
§ 1-1-2 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The limits and boundaries of this city shall be as shown and indicated on an
official map of the city, duly adopted by the City Council, and on file in the
office of the Clerk.
Cross Reference:
   Annexed properties,
Appendices
CHAPTER 2: GOVERNING BODY
Section
1-2-1   Composition
1-2-2   Respective Duties of Council and City Manager
1-2-3   Mayor Pro Tem
1-2-4   Compensation
1-2-5   Oath of Mayor and Council Members
1-2-6   Delivery of Books, Etc., to Successors
1-2-7   Employment of Council Members by City Prohibited
1-2-8   Council to Appoint Members of Boards and Commissions
1-2-9   Compensation and Duties of Specific Boards
§ 1-2-1 COMPOSITION.
   The Mayor and six (6) Council members shall constitute the City Council,
with each member, including the Mayor, having one (1) vote.
(1977 Code, § 1-1001; 1-2001)
§ 1-2-2 RESPECTIVE DUTIES OF COUNCIL AND CITY MANAGER.
   The City Council shall fix the policies of the city government, and the City
Manager shall execute and administer such policies. Sole administrative
authority is to be vested in the City Manager, he in turn, being accountable to
the City Council.
§ 1-2-3 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   The Council shall, at the first meeting of the newly constituted
Council after any general election for Council, elect one (1) of its members as
Mayor Pro Tempore for a term of two (2) years.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor Pro Tempore to act as Mayor during
the absence or disability of the Mayor, or in case of a vacancy in the office
of the Mayor.
(1977 Code, § 1-2002)
State Law Reference:
   Mayor Pro Tem, S.C. Code § 5-7-190
§ 1-2-4 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Mayor and Council members shall be as
determined by the Council, but is hereby established at the rate of six
thousand dollars ($6,000) yearly for the Mayor, and three thousand six hundred
dollars ($3,600) yearly for Council members.
   (B)   No ordinance changing these salaries shall become effective until the
date of commencement of the terms of the Mayor and Council members elected at
the next general election following any change.
   (C)   The Mayor and Council members may also receive payment for actual
expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties.
(1977 Code, § 1-2003) (Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 3-12-2001; Am. Ord. 14-09, passed
12-8-2014)
State Law Reference:
   Salaries of Mayor and Council members, S.C. Code § 5-7-170
§ 1-2-5 OATH OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and Council members, before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, shall take the following oath:
   "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to the
constitution of this state, to exercise the duties of the office to which I
have been elected and that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the
duties thereof, and preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of this
state and of the United States.
   As Mayor (or Council member) of the City of Dillon, I will equally, fairly,
and impartially, to the best of my ability, and skill, exercise the trust
reposed in me, and will use my best endeavor to preserve the peace and carry
into effect according to law, the purposes for which I have been elected, So
help me God."
Editorial Note:
   For statutory provisions concerning the structure, organization, duties,
powers and functions of the Council, see S.C. Code §§ 5-13-10 et seq.
State Law Reference:
   Constitutional oath of office, S.C. Const., Art. VI, Sec. 5
   Statutory oath, S.C. Code § 5-15-150
§ 1-2-6 DELIVERY OF BOOKS, ETC., TO SUCCESSORS.
   At the expiration of the term of office of any City Council member, it shall
be the duty of that member to deliver promptly to his successor all books,
records, or other property incident to his office.
§ 1-2-7 EMPLOYMENT OF COUNCIL MEMBERS BY CITY PROHIBITED.
   Council members in elective positions with the city shall not be eligible
for full- or part-time salary or hourly employment with the city until twelve
(12) months after such time as they have completed their elective service.
(Ord. 90-19, passed 8-13-1990)
§ 1-2-8 COUNCIL TO APPOINT MEMBERS OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   Council shall have the authority to appoint or remove members from the
Boards and Commissions by majority vote of the elected Council.
(Ord. 94-18, passed 9-12-1994)
§ 1-2-9 COMPENSATION AND DUTIES OF SPECIFIC BOARDS.
   (A)   Membership on the following Boards and Commissions is set at seven (7)
members each.
      (1)   The Accommodation Tax Advisory Committee which is empowered and
entrusted with the responsibility to make recommendations on the expenditure of
revenue generated from the Accommodation Tax.
      (2)   The Planning Commission which is empowered and entrusted with the
responsibility to undertake and complete all necessary plans as required by
law, administer the City of Dillon subdivision law, revise and amend the City
of Dillon Zoning Ordinance as necessary, and assist Council with investigations
and studies as requested.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals which is empowered and entrusted with
the responsibility to hear specific appeals relating to the zoning law of the
City of Dillon Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   The Board of Governors which is empowered and entrusted with the
responsibility to hear specific appeals relating to the International Building
Codes, as adopted by the South Carolina Building Codes Council.
   (B)   And that each Council member and Mayor shall select, with the advice
of the City Manager, individuals who reside within the city limits, if
qualified, to fill these positions with such selections becoming effective upon
approval by majority vote of the elected City Council.
   (C)   All terms shall continue as provided for those already appointed. The
terms of the newly appointed shall expire when the appointing Council member's
term expires. The selection to the existing vacancies to be filled with
assignment by number and lot.
(Am. Ord. 99-11, passed 7-12-1999)
CHAPTER 3: RULES OF PROCEDURE AND ORDINANCES
Section
Article A: Meetings of Council
1-3-1   Date and Time
1-3-2   Executive Sessions
1-3-3   Quorum and Rules of Order
1-3-4   Voting Requirements
1-3-5   Minutes of Meetings
1-3-6   Appearance of Citizens
1-3-7   Agenda
1-3-8   City Attorney to Attend
1-3-9   Clerk of Council
1-3-10   Special Committees
1-3-11   Suspension of Rules
1-3-12   through 1-3-20 Reserved
Article B: Ordinances
1-3-21   Ordinances Required
1-3-22   Codification of Ordinances
1-3-23   Notice Required
1-3-24   Form of Ordinances
1-3-25   Introduction of Ordinances
1-3-26   Introduction of Resolutions
1-3-27   Enactment of Ordinances
1-3-28   Adoption of Resolutions
1-3-29   through 1-3-40 Reserved
Article C: Use of Code
1-3-41   How Code Designated and Cited
1-3-42   Definitions and Rules of Construction
1-3-43   Severability of Parts of Code
1-3-44   Catch Lines of Sections
1-3-45   Ordinances Entered in Book
1-3-46   Same; Style
1-3-47   Same; Effect of Repeal or Expiration
1-3-48   General Penalty; Continuing Violations
1-3-49   Amendments; Form
1-3-50   Same; Repeal
1-3-51   Same; Subject to General Penalty
1-3-52   Municipal Uniform Ordinance Summons
ARTICLE A: MEETINGS OF COUNCIL
§ 1-3-1 DATE AND TIME.
   (A)   Regular meetings of Council shall be held on the second Monday in each
month unless changed by a majority vote of members present at any regular or
special meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings of Council may be held on the call of the Mayor or
City Manager or a majority of the members. Notice of a special meeting shall be
given immediately to all available members and the news media by the City
Manager.
   (C)   All regular and special meetings of Council shall be open to the
public; provided, however, that the Council may hold executive sessions, as
hereinafter set forth.
(1977 Code, § 1-3001)
§ 1-3-2 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold executive sessions as permitted by the South
Carolina Freedom of Information Act and this Code.
   (B)   Prior to going into executive session the Council shall vote in public
on the question, and when such vote is favorable, the presiding officer shall
announce the purpose of the executive session. Any formal action taken in
executive session shall thereafter be ratified in public session prior to such
action becoming effective. As used in this item "formal action" means a
recorded vote committing the body concerned to a specific course of action.
   (C)   The Council may hold a closed meeting for the purpose of receiving an
administrative briefing by an affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of its
members present and voting when required by some exceptional reason so
compelling as to override the general public policy in favor of public
meetings; provided that no budgetary matters shall be discussed in such closed
session, except as otherwise provided by law. Such reasons and the votes of the
members shall be recorded and be matters of public record.
   (D)   The City Manager may, if time permits, give notice to the news media
that an executive session will be held pursuant to law without stating the
specific matters to be discussed. When advance notice is not given, the City
Manager may give notice of the meeting after it has been held.
(1977 Code, § 1-3002)
State Law Reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 et seq.
§ 1-3-3 QUORUM AND RULES OF ORDER.
   A majority of the seven (7) elected officials serving shall constitute a
quorum for the conduct of business at any meeting. The Mayor or Mayor Pro
Tempore shall preside, except that in the absence of both, the members present
shall elect a presiding member. Except as otherwise required by state law or
ordinance, all proceedings of Council shall be governed by "Robert's Rules of
Order" and the City Attorney or City Manager shall act as parliamentarian.
(1977 Code, § 1-3003)
State Law Reference:
   Majority of members constitutes a quorum, S.C. Code § 5-7-160
§ 1-3-4 VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All actions of Council shall be by majority vote of members present at
a public meeting.
   (B)   Every member of Council present shall vote on every question except
when required to refrain from voting by state law.
   (C)   The vote on every question shall be by roll call when the vote is not
unanimous and shall be recorded in the Council minutes by the Clerk.
   (D)   No member of Council may leave the Council chamber while in public
session without permission of the presiding officer.
(1977 Code, § 1-3004)
§ 1-3-5 MINUTES OF MEETINGS.
   The Clerk shall keep the minutes of all public meetings of Council which
shall be a matter of permanent public record. At each Council meeting the
minutes of the previous meeting shall be presented for approval. Minutes shall
not be considered the official record of a meeting until approved by Council.
Any member of Council desiring to express a position on a matter voted upon by
Council in the minutes may do so by presenting the position in writing to
Council not later than the next regular meeting.
(1977 Code, § 1-3005)
§ 1-3-6 APPEARANCE OF CITIZENS.
   Any citizen of the municipality shall be entitled to an appearance before
Council at any regular meeting concerning any municipal matter with the
exception of personnel matters. Persons desiring to speak must notify the City
Manager prior to the beginning of the meeting.
(1977 Code, § 1-3005)
§ 1-3-7 AGENDA.
   Matters to be considered by Council at a regular meeting shall be placed on
a written agenda prepared by the City Manager and publicly posted by the Clerk
by noon of the day preceding the meeting. Matters not on the agenda may be
considered upon request of a member unless two (2) members object.
(1977 Code, § 1-3007)
§ 1-3-8 CITY ATTORNEY TO ATTEND.
   The City Attorney shall attend all meetings of Council unless excused by
Council. He may act as parliamentarian, propose ordinances and resolutions,
review all ordinances, resolutions, and documents presented to Council and give
opinions upon questions of procedure, form and law to any member of Council.
(1979 Code, § 1-3008)
Cross Reference:
   Duties of municipal attorney, Sec.
1-4-52
§ 1-3-9 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   The City Manager shall appoint an employee of the municipality who shall
have the title of Clerk of Council. The Clerk shall give notices of meetings to
the City Manager, the members of the Council and the public of regular and
special meetings; post the agenda; attend regular and special meetings; record
votes of Council; keep minutes of Council meetings; and perform such other
duties as may be required by the City Manager and Council.
(Am. Ord. 04-10, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 1-3-10 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Council may appoint a special committee to assist in or hold a public
hearing for Council at any time upon any matter pending before it. Minutes or
reports of hearings held by special committees shall be filed with the Clerk as
public records.
(1977 Code, § 1-3010)
§ 1-3-11 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The provisions of this article may be suspended at any meeting of the City
Council by the consent of a majority of Council members present at such
meeting.
ARTICLE B: ORDINANCES
§ 1-3-21 ORDINANCES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Council shall act by ordinance in all matters required by law to be
done by ordinance, including any action to:
      (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or ordinances, create, alter
or abolish any municipal department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
      (3)   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
      (4)   Grant, renew or extend franchises, licenses or rights in public
streets or public property, and close abandoned streets;
      (5)   Authorize the borrowing of money or the issuance of bonds;
      (6)   Levy taxes, assess property for improvements or establish charges
for services;
      (7)   Annex area to the city;
      (8)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands
of the city, and
      (9)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in items (1) through (8)
above.
   (B)   In all other matters Council may act either by ordinance or
resolution, written or oral, recorded in the minutes.
(1979 Code, § 1-3021)
State Law Reference:
   Acts required to be done by ordinance, S.C. Code § 5-7-260
§ 1-3-22 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances relating to administration, health, safety, vehicles, streets
(except franchises and encroachments), traffic, railroads, crimes and offenses,
utilities, solicitations, pollution, municipal court, descriptions of areas
annexed to the city, and any other ordinances or portions of ordinances so
required by Council shall be codified and updated regularly in a loose leaf
Code of Ordinances. Standard codes, technical regulations and zoning ordinances
may be cited in the Code by reference and copies thereof shall be made
available by the Clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
(1977 Code, § 1-3022)
State Law Reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, S.C. Code § 5-7-280
§ 1-3-23 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Prior to the introduction of an ordinance granting a franchise, license or
right for the use of any street or public property, or for the permanent
closing of any abandoned street, the applicant for the ordinance shall publish
a note in an issue of a newspaper having general circulation in the city
stating the nature of the franchise, license or right sought or a description
of the street sought to be closed, and the date on which the application is to
be presented to Council which shall be at least one (1) week after the last
notice. This requirement shall not apply to the temporary closing of a public
street initiated by Council.
(1977 Code, § 1-3023)
§ 1-3-24 FORM OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the
form required for final adoption which shall include:
      (1)   A title briefly describing the content;
      (2)   Findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired;
      (3)   An enacting clause;
      (4)   Citation of any ordinance repealed;
      (5)   The provisions of the ordinance including section numbers if the
ordinance is to be codified or amends an existing codified ordinance;
      (6)   The effective date of the ordinance, to be effective when adopted
unless otherwise stated;
      (7)   The approval of the City Attorney as to form and the assignment of
an ordinance number if necessary; and
      (8)   Space for the signatures of the Mayor and members of Council and
the Clerk attesting notice, if required, and adoption.
   (B)   Written resolutions shall be in similar form as deemed appropriate by
the City Attorney or City Manager.
(1977 Code, § 1-3024)
State Law Reference:
   Form of ordinances, S.C. Code § 5-7-270
§ 1-3-25 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of Council. A proposed ordinance
shall be referred to the City Attorney or City Manager for approval as to form.
The City Attorney shall render assistance in the preparation of notices and
ordinances. After an ordinance is in the proper form and required notices have
been given, the City Attorney or City Manager shall send the ordinance to the
Clerk to be held for public inspection. An ordinance shall be deemed to be
introduced when it is read by title. The ordinance must be listed by title at
least once and published in a local paper at least six (6) days before the
second reading; an ordinance must be publicly read twice by title before it can
be adopted.
(1977 Code, § 1-3025)
§ 1-3-26 INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   A voice motion of a member of Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution which shall require no written record other
than a notation of the Clerk in the Council minutes. A resolution proposed in
writing shall be introduced in the same manner as an ordinance.
(1977 Code, § 1-3026)
§ 1-3-27 ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An ordinance to levy a tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds, grant a
franchise, license or right to use or occupy a public street or public property
for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is finally
passed, and in that form remain on file with the Clerk for public inspection at
least one (1) week before final adoption.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read two (2)
times and on two (2) separate days with at least six (6) days between readings.
   (C)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on one (1) reading without notice
or hearing by affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of members present. An
emergency ordinance may not levy taxes, relate to a franchise or a service rate
and shall expire automatically on the 61st day following enactment.
   (D)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance shall be by reading of
the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of Council.
   (E)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any member of Council or any
citizen of the city interested therein may request a public hearing which may
be held at any time designated by Council prior to final adoption.
   (F)   At least one (1) public hearing shall be held before the adoption of
any standard code or technical regulations by reference.
   (G)   Upon final adoption by vote of Council, an ordinance shall be signed
by the Mayor and Council members and attested by the Clerk, who shall file the
original signed document in the Council minutes, and a copy of the signed
document in the Code book maintained by the Clerk.
State Law Reference:
   Adoption or ordinances, generally, S.C. Code § 5-7-270
   Adoption of standard codes, S.C. Code § 5-7-280
§ 1-3-28 ADOPTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on one (1) reading unless a
public hearing is set by a majority of the members of Council present.
(1977 Code, § 1-3028)
ARTICLE C: USE OF CODE
§ 1-3-41 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances of the City of
Dillon, South Carolina, 2006," and may be so cited.
(1977 Code, § 1-3041)
§ 1-3-42 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the
following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council or the text clearly
requires otherwise:
   AND, OR. The word "and" may be read as "or" and the word "or" as "and" where
the sense requires it.
   BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   CITY. The words "the city" shall mean the City of Dillon, in the County of
Dillon and the State of South Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day be
Sunday, it shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The words "the Council" or "the City Council" shall
mean the City Council of Dillon, South Carolina.
   COUNTY. The word "county" shall be construed to mean the County of Dillon in
the State of South Carolina.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears in this Code requiring
or authorizing the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some
act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department
head or other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do
the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision
specifically designate otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   IN THE CITY. The words "in the city" shall mean and include any territory
within the corporate limits of the City of Dillon, South Carolina, and the
police jurisdiction thereof, and any other territory over which regulatory
power has been conferred on the city by general or special act, except as
otherwise specified.
   INTERPRETATION. In the interpretations and application of any provision of
this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provisions of this Code impose greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provisions
imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons, or officers.
   MONTH. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular number.
   OATH; SWEAR, SWORE. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an
affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted
for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be
equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
   OWNER. The word "owner" applied to a building or land, shall include any
part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. The word "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership,
association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an
individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real property,
as defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next
before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. The word "property" shall include lands, tenements, and
hereditaments.
   ROADWAY. The word "roadway" shall mean that portion of a street, improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SHALL. The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is discretionary.
   SIDEWALK. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the
curb line, or the lateral lines of a roadway where there is no curb, and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the
State of South Carolina.
   STREET. The word "street" shall include avenues, boulevards, highways,
roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all
other public thoroughfares in the city, and shall mean the entire width thereof
between opposed abutting property lines; it shall be construed to include a
sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City
Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. The words "tenant" or "occupant" applied to a building
or land shall include any person who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
   TIME. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   WRITING. The words "writing" and "written" shall include printing and any
other mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
§ 1-3-43 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be
declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court
of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not
affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and
sections of this Code.
(1977 Code, § 1-3043)
§ 1-3-44 CATCH LINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catch lines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catch words to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of the sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections,
including the catch lines, are amended or re-enacted.
(1977 Code, § 1-3044)
§ 1-3-45 ORDINANCES ENTERED IN BOOK.
   The Clerk shall enter in a well bound book copies of all ordinances passed
by the Council. The book in which ordinances are thus entered shall be known as
the "Ordinance Book of the City of Dillon, South Carolina" and shall be
indexed.
(1977 Code, § 1-3045)
§ 1-3-46 SAME; STYLE.
   The style of all ordinances shall be substantially as follows: "Be it
ordered and ordained by the City Council of the City of Dillon, South Carolina,
in Council assembled and by the authority thereof."
(1977 Code, § 1-3046)
§ 1-3-47 SAME; EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
(1977 Code, § 1-3048)
§ 1-3-48 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance or resolution of the city,
or rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city
under authority duly vested in him or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no
specific penalty is provided therefore, the violation of any such provision of
this Code, ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200) or by imprisonment not
exceeding thirty (30) days. Each day any violation of any provision of this
Code or of any such ordinance or resolution shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty hereinabove provided, any condition caused
or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any
such ordinance or resolution shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be
abated as provided by law, and each day that the condition continues shall be
regarded as a new and separate offense.
(1977 Code, § 1-3048)
State Law Reference:
   General limit on municipal penalty, S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 1-3-49 AMENDMENTS; FORM.
   (A)   Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such
form as to indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same a part
hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to
"The Code of Ordinances of the City of Dillon, South Carolina" shall be
understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
   (B)   All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which
amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in
the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof,
by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code
by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby; in the case of repeal, shall
be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this
Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code
of Ordinances by the City Council.
   (C)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in
substantially the following language: "That section_____ of the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Dillon, South Carolina, is hereby amended to read as
follows: (New provisions are set out in full.)"
   (D)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to
be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of
the City of Dillon, South Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section (or
article, chapter, or other designation as the case may be), to be
numbered_____, which reads as follows: (New provisions are set out in full.)"
   (E)   In lieu of subsection (D) hereof, when the City Council desires to
enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not
previously existing in the Code, which the Council desires to incorporate into
the Code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made part
of such ordinance: "It is the intention of the City Council, and it is hereby
ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part
of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Dillon, South Carolina, and the
sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
§ 1-3-50 SAME; REPEAL.
   All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to
be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number,
chapter or other number, as the case may be.
§ 1-3-51 SAME; SUBJECT TO GENERAL PENALTY.
   In the case of the amendment by the City Council of any section of this Code
for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in §
1-3-48 of this Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such
amendment contains provisions for which a penalty other than the aforementioned
general penalty is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty
so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so
amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
§ 1-3-52 MUNICIPAL UNIFORM ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the Code of Ordinances
of Dillon, South Carolina, or any code adopted pursuant thereto, within the
corporate limits of Dillon may be issued a uniform ordinance summons. Issuance
of the uniform ordinance summons shall vest jurisdiction in the municipal court
to hear and dispose of the charge for which the uniform ordinance summons was
issued and served. The uniform ordinance may be issued by any city law
enforcement officer or any other city employee designated by the Council as
code enforcement officers and animal control officers. The bond amount for
violations shall be prescribed by the chief municipal judge. City law
enforcement, code enforcement and animal control officers are prohibited from
accepting bonds. Bonds are to be posted in the manner prescribed in the uniform
ordinance summons. The uniform ordinance summons shall not be used to perform a
custodial arrest.
   (B)   This ordinance does not apply to any ordinance which regulates the use
of motor vehicles on the public roads.
   (C)   The form attached to Ordinance No. CM 93-10 is hereby adopted as the
city's uniform ordinance summons.
(Ord. No. 93-10, passed 5-10-1993; Am. Ord. 03-03, passed 3-10-2003)
CHAPTER 4: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article A: General Provisions
1-4-1   Creation of Officers and Departments, Organizational Chart Established
1-4-2   Official Bonds
1-4-3   Salaries
1-4-4   Enforcement of Ordinances and Laws
1-4-5   Resisting or Interfering with Municipal Officers or Employees
1-4-6   Participation on Part of City Employees in South Carolina Retirement
System
1-4-7   Policy of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Handicap
1-4-8   Grievance Procedure for Handicapped
1-4-9   Employees to Furnish Information
1-4-10   At-Will Employment
1-4-11   Collection Costs for Delinquent Debts
1-4-12 through 1-4-20 Reserved
Article B: City Manager
1-4-21   Establishment of Office
1-4-22   Appointment
1-4-23   Residence During Term
1-4-24   Term; Removal
1-4-25   Compensation
1-4-26   Bond
1-4-27   Powers and Duties Generally
1-4-28   Performance of Duties During Absence or Disability of City Manager
1-4-29 through 1-4-40 Reserved
Article C: Finance Director
1-4-41   Appointment
1-4-42   Bond
1-4-43   Duties
1-4-44   City Seal
1-4-45 through 1-4-50 Reserved
Article D: City Attorney
1-4-51   Election; Term
1-4-52   Duties
1-4-53   Compensation
ARTICLE A: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1-4-1 CREATION OF OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS, ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Council may, by ordinance, create, change and abolish
offices, departments or agencies of the city government upon the recommendation
of the City Manager or may, in accordance with such recommendations, assign
additional functions and duties to such officer, departments, and agencies. The
head of each department shall be designated the director thereof, and shall
have supervision and control over his department, subject, however, to the
direction of the City Manager.
   (B)   There are hereby established and created other offices and departments
for the city as follows: (1) Police Department; (2) Fire Department; (3)
Finance Department; (4) Services Department; (5) Utilities Department; (6)
Parks and Recreation Department; (7) Code Enforcement Department; and (8)
Water/Sewer Department.
   (C)   Persons appointed to these departments and offices shall be
responsible for the functions and duties as prescribed in this Code and other
duties as the City Manager may from time to time determine.
   (D)   The City of Dillon, South Carolina, organizational chart is hereby
established to show lines of authority and the chain of command under the
Council-Manager form of municipal government. The departments and divisions of
the city as depicted on the chart are hereby created.
CITY OF DILLON, SOUTH CAROLINA
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Please_click_here_to_view.
Editor's Note: You must have Adobe Reader in order to view the Organizational
Chart in PDF. A print version is on file at the City Clerk's office.
(Ord. 95-11, passed 3-11-1996; Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
State Law Reference:
   Department and offices established by ordinances, S.C. Code § 5-13-100
§ 1-4-2 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   (A)   The officers mentioned in this section as well as any other officer or
employee designated by Council shall furnish bonds, to be approved by Council,
with some reliable surety company doing business in the state, approved by the
Council, as surety thereon. The city shall bear the expense of the bonds. When
two (2) offices are combined in one (1) person, only one (1) bond shall be
required. The City Finance Director and all of his assistants, together with
the chief of policy, shall be required to furnish bond under this section.
   (B)   Should any officer fail to give such bond, with good and sufficient
sureties, within ten (10) days after notice to him from the City Council, his
election or appointment shall be declared null and void and another election
immediately ordered or appointment made.
Cross Reference:
   Bond required of Manager, Sec.
1-4-26
   Bond required of Clerk, Sec.
1-4-42
State Law Reference:
   Council's authority to require surety bonds, S.C. Code § 5-13-60
§ 1-4-3 SALARIES.
   The salary of each officer of the city elected by the Council shall be
fixed, designated and regulated by resolution of the Council or annual
appropriation ordinance worksheets. The salary shall be payable bi-weekly, in
sums indicated in the resolution, by the Finance Director on approval of the
City Manager.
§ 1-4-4 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All officers and employees of the city shall enforce obedience to the
statutes, provisions of this Code or any ordinances, resolutions, or rules and
regulations, or orders issued thereunder, as may relate to their regular
duties, and any other statutes, provisions of this Code or ordinances,
resolutions, rules, regulations or orders with whose enforcement they are
properly chargeable by any measures provided therein, by the proper report of
any violation thereof, and by instituting proceedings as may be necessary to
the enforcement.
   (B)   All officers and employees of the city are hereby given the necessary
authority under the police powers of the city to carry out the duties of their
respective offices and positions.
   (C)   Whenever any officer or employee of the city is required or authorized
by statute, the provisions of this Code, or any ordinance or resolution, or
rules and regulations of orders issued thereunder, in order to carry out his
duties thereunder, to enter any premises or vehicle, the officer or employee
shall have the right to enter the premises or vehicle at any reasonable time in
pursuance of those duties.
(1977 Code, §§ 1-6003; 1-6004)
§ 1-4-5 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH MUNICIPAL OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or interfere with any member
of the Police Department, any member of the Fire Department, or any other
municipal officer or employee in the discharge of his duties.
(1977 Code, § 1-6005)
§ 1-4-6 PARTICIPATION ON PART OF CITY EMPLOYEES IN SOUTH CAROLINA RETIREMENT
SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City Council, by appropriate resolution, passed on June 29, 1947,
has approved the inclusion of the employees of the city in the South Carolina
Retirement System, as provided for in the Retirement Act passed at the 1945
Session of the South Carolina General Assembly and as amended thereafter, and
has agreed to comply with the requirements of the Act and the rules and
regulations of the Retirement Board.
   (B)   The action of the City Council, as expressed by the resolution, is
hereby ratified and confirmed by ordinance and the obligations assumed by the
city, in connection with the inclusion of its employees in the South Carolina
Retirement System, are hereby confirmed and accepted.
   (C)   This action of the city shall not be modified or rescinded except in
accordance with the statutes of the state, now or hereafter passed, in
connection with the retirement system and the rules and regulations now and
hereafter promulgated by the Retirement Board. No action shall be taken by the
city to alter, modify or abrogate the terms of the resolution passed except by
ordinance. Before any City Council shall consider the passage of such an
ordinance, the people shall be given notice by official advertisement for a
period of not less than thirty (30) days before final action is taken.
   (D)   The City Manager is authorized and empowered to deduct from all
earnings of city employees the necessary percentage of each employee's salary
and to make all payments on behalf of the city.
(1977 Code, § 1-6011)
§ 1-4-7 POLICY OF NON-DISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP.
   The city shall not discriminate against handicapped individuals in
employment practices, or policies, or in the provision of programs, services,
or benefits.
(Ord. CM-19, passed 2-14-1985)
§ 1-4-8 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FOR HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   The following grievance procedure is established to meet the
requirements of the Federal Revenue Sharing Act. It should be used by any
individual who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis
of handicap by the city.
      (1)   The grievance should be in written form and contain as much
information as possible about the alleged discrimination (name, address, phone
number, location and description of problem, etc.).
      (2)   Individuals with visual or motor impairments will be granted
alternate methods, such as a personal interview or tape recording, for
submission of a grievance.
      (3)   The grievance should be submitted by the grievant or his designee
within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged violation to: City Clerk. P.O.
Drawer 431, Dillon, South Carolina 29536; phone number 774-2431; office hours
8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
   (B)   Within fifteen (15) working days of receipt of the complaint, the City
Clerk will respond in writing (or a method understood by the complainant) to
the complainant and/or his or her designee. The response will offer a
resolution, or explain the position of the city with respect to the complaint.
   (C)   If the response by the City Clerk does not satisfactorily resolve the
issue, the complainant or his designee may request a hearing, to be held within
fifteen (15) working days of receipt of the response, before the City Council.
Within thirty (30) calendar days of the hearing, the complainant or his
designee will receive the final resolution in writing (or a method understood
by the complainant) as proposed by the City Council.
   (D)   All complaints received by the City Clerk and responses from the City
Council will be kept by the city for a period of three (3) years. These
documents may be requested by the Office of Revenue Sharing should an
investigation into alleged discrimination on the basis of handicapped status be
initiated.
§ 1-4-9 EMPLOYEES TO FURNISH INFORMATION.
   (A)   Any employee who wilfully distorts or withholds any information
pertaining to city business from any Council member or the Mayor shall be
terminated from city employment, as prescribed in S.C. Code § 5-13-40.
   (B)   The Council employs the City Manager to carry out the policies and to
report pertinent information of city business. The guidelines that are
prescribed are for the City Manager and the municipal judges. These individuals
are to report to the Council with a full report.
(Ord.96-23, passed 11-11-1996)
§ 1-4-10 AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   Notwithstanding any policies, memoranda or handbooks promulgated by the city
or any employment practices of the city:
   (A)   All employees of the city are employed at-will and may resign or be
discharged from employment at any time, excluding those under contract.
   (B)   Only the City Manager shall have the right to enter into contracts for
other than at-will employment on the city’s behalf. Any contract for other than
at-will employment must:
      (1)    Be in writing;
      (2)   Be executed by the City Manger;
      (3)    Specify the duration of the employment;
      (4)   Specifically state that the contract is being created pursuant to
the City Manager’s authority under this ordinance.
(Ord. 05-14, passed 10-10-2005)
§ 1-4-11 COLLECTION COSTS FOR DELINQUENT DEBTS.
   (A)   The city may impose a collection cost of up to twenty-five dollars
($25) to defray its internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that
are sought to be collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt
Collection Act, S.C. Code § 12-56-10 et seq. This cost is hereby declared to be
a collection cost that arises by operation of law and shall be added to the
delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
   (B)   The city hereby declares that the administrative fee charged by the
Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection cost to the city,
which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 3-12-2007; Am. Ord. 18-14, passed 10-8-2018)
ARTICLE B: CITY MANAGER
§ 1-4-21 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   The office of City Manager for the City of Dillon is hereby created.
(1977 Code, § 1-4001)
§ 1-4-22 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Manager shall be appointed, upon merit without regard to residency,
by the Council.
(1977 Code, § 1-4002)
State Law Reference:
   Employment of manager, S.C. Code § 5-13-50
§ 1-4-23 RESIDENCE DURING TERM.
   The Council shall employ a Manager and fix his compensation. The Manager
shall be employed solely on the basis of his executive and administrative
qualifications. He need not be a resident of the municipality, or state at the
time of his employment and may reside outside of the municipality while in
office only with the approval of the Council.
(1977 Code, § 1-4003) (Am. Ord. 25-01, passed 2-10-2025)
§ 1-4-24 TERM; REMOVAL.
   The Council shall appoint the City Manager for an indefinite term. If the
Council determines to remove the Manager, he shall be given a written statement
of the reasons alleged for the proposed removal and a right to a hearing
thereon at a public meeting of the Council. Within five (5) days of receipt of
the notice of removal, the City Manager may file with the Council a written
request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held at a Council meeting
no earlier than twenty (20), nor later than thirty (30), days after the request
is filed. The Manager may file with the Council a written reply no later than
five (5) days before the hearing. Removal shall be stayed pending the decision
at the public hearing.
State Law Reference:
   Term and removal of City Manager, S.C. Code § 5-13-70
§ 1-4-25 COMPENSATION.
   The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the Council shall fix
from time to time by ordinance, resolution or contract.
§ 1-4-26 BOND.
   The City Manager shall give bond in the amount of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) with a surety, consisting of an approved surety company authorized to
act as surety under the laws of the state and doing business in the state, for
the faithful performance of the duties of his office. The premium on the bond
shall be paid by the city.
(1977 Code, § 1-4006)
§ 1-4-27 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be the chief executive officer and the head of
the administrative branch of the city government. He shall be responsible to
the Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city, except as
otherwise specifically provided by law. He shall:
      (1)   Have the power to appoint and, when necessary, remove all officers
and employees of the city except as otherwise provided by law and except as he
may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint and remove
subordinates in that department or office.
      (2)   Recommend to the Council the appointment of officers of the city
required by law to be elected by the Council. He shall recommend the removal or
suspension of any officers when removal or suspension shall be consistent with
the best interest of the city. The recommendations shall be presumed to be
correct and shall be accepted by the Council unless it shall appear that the
City Manager shall have abused his discretion and power in making the
recommendation. All recommendations for appointment or approval shall be based
solely upon merit and upon the qualifications of the applicant.
      (3)   See that the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the
Council are faithfully executed.
      (4)   Prepare the budget annually and shall submit it to the Council. He
shall be responsible for its administration after adoption.
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the Council as of the end of the fiscal year
a complete report on the finances and the administrative activities of the city
for the preceding year.
      (6)   Attend all meetings of the Council and shall recommend for adoption
measures as he may deem expedient.
      (7)   Make reports to the Council from time to time upon the affairs of
the city and shall keep the Council fully advised of the city's financial
condition and its future financial needs.
      (8)   Perform other duties as may be required of him by the Council.
   (B)   The City Manager shall act as purchasing agent for the city and shall
purchase all merchandise, material, and supplies. He shall approve all vouchers
for the payment of purchases prior to payment and the Finance Director shall
co-sign with the City Manager the vouchers prior to payment.
(1977 Code, §§ 1-4007, 1-4009 through 1-40017)
State Law Reference:
   Duties of manager, S.C. Code § 5-13-90
§ 1-4-28 PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES DURING ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall designate, by letter filed with the Clerk, a
qualified administrative officer of the city to perform his duties during the
temporary absence or disability of the City Manager. In the event of the
failure of the manager to make the designation, the Council may, by resolution,
appoint an officer of the city to perform the duties until the City Manager
shall return or his disability shall cease.
(1977 Code, § 1-4008)
State Law Reference:
   Designation of acting manager, S.C. Code § 5-13-80
ARTICLE C: FINANCE DIRECTOR
§ 1-4-41 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Manager shall appoint a Finance Director who shall also serve as
treasurer of the city.
Cross Reference:
   Finance director also serves as Clerk, Sec.
1-4-42
§ 1-4-42 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, the Finance Director shall give
bond in a sum as may be required and with a surety company approved by the City
Manager, for the faithful performance of the duties of office.
§ 1-4-43 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall collect all claims and accounts that may be
due and payable to the city; receive all monies belonging to the city; issue
all licenses for which provisions may be made; pay all bills owed by the city
when approved by the proper authority; deposit funds in a bank designated by
Council; make statements of financial conditions of the city as ordered by the
City Manager; keep account of all monies and accounts and report to the City
Manager.
   (B)   The Finance Director or his designated agent shall serve as the Clerk
of Council. In that role the Clerk shall give notice to the City Manager, the
members of the Council and the public of regular and special meetings; record
the ordinances and minutes of meetings of Council when required; and perform
other duties as may be required by the City Manager and Council.
§ 1-4-44 CITY SEAL.
   The city shall have a common seal, which shall be affixed to all ordinances
passed by Council, to all deeds of real estate executed on behalf of the city,
and to all notes, bonds, and other evidences of indebtedness executed in behalf
of the city. The seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Clerk.
(1977 Code, § 1-4034)
ARTICLE D: CITY ATTORNEY
State Law Reference:
   Appointment of municipal attorney, S.C. Code § 5-7-230.
§ 1-4-51 ELECTION; TERM.
   The Council shall appoint as City Attorney a person who is a member of the
South Carolina Bar Association and admitted to practice law in South Carolina.
The term of office shall be one (1) year.
(1977 Code, § 1-4041)
§ 1-4-52 DUTIES.
   In addition to any other duties assigned by the City Council, the City
Attorney shall:
   (A)   Attend the sessions of the municipal court whenever requested to do so
by the City Manager or the municipal judge and shall prosecute offenders in
such court and shall otherwise represent the interests of the city herein;
   (B)   Upon request, give all necessary advice to the City Council, the City
Manager and all other officers and agents of the city;
   (C)   Institute and defend such proceedings and render such other legal
services on behalf of the city as may be requested of him by the proper
officers or agents of the city;
   (D)   Be responsible for the drafting of all ordinances, resolutions and
other instruments of writing relating to the business of the city;
   (E)   Approve all official documents of the city, except resolutions, as to
form;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of this Code, city ordinances, state statutes
and other laws of the jurisdiction only with the specific authorization in each
case from the Council;
   (G)   Initiate and prepare legislative proposals, including legislation, for
introduction in the general assembly; and
   (H)   Attend meetings of the City Council on Council's request, render legal
advice upon request, and review the legal propriety of documents under
consideration by the Council and administrative officials.
§ 1-4-53 COMPENSATION.
   The City Attorney shall receive compensation for the discharge of his duties
as fixed by Council.
CHAPTER 5: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article A: Property Tax
1-5-1   Annual Levy; Rate
1-5-2   Annual Statement of Valuation and Ownership of Property
1-5-3   Use of County Assessment Books
1-5-4   Assessment of Property Not on County Books
1-5-5   Taxes Due and Payable
1-5-6   When Taxes and Assessments Not Paid
1-5-7   Execution Against Defaulting Taxpayers
1-5-8   Advertised Property Must Be Sold
1-5-9   Successful Bidder at Delinquent Tax Sales
1-5-10   Failure to Remit
1-5-11   Redemption of Items of Real Estate
1-5-12   Cancellation of Sale
1-5-13   No Redemption Period for Personal Property
1-5-14   Notice
1-5-15   Tax Title
1-5-16   Finance Director May Void Tax Sales
1-5-17   Evidence of Good Title
1-5-18   Lien to Attach to After Acquired Personal Property
1-5-19   Discount Allowed on Payment of Taxes
1-5-20   Fees for Tax Executions and Sales
1-5-21   Fiscal Year
1-5-22 through 1-5-30 Reserved
Article B: Purchasing
1-5-31   Purchasing Agent; Specified Duties
1-5-32   Contract Procedures
1-5-33   Bidding; Competitive, Required Exceptions
1-5-34   Award to Lowest Bidder; Advertising, When Required; Exemptions
1-5-35   Bid Deposits
1-5-36   Sealed Bid Procedures
1-5-37   Materials Testing
1-5-38   Financial Interest of City Officials and Employees Prohibited
1-5-39   Records of Open Market Orders and Bids
1-5-40   Stock Reports
1-5-41   Surplus Stock
1-5-42   Supplies Unsuitable for Public Use, Sale or Exchange
1-5-43   Gifts and Rebates
1-5-44   Cooperative Purchasing
1-5-45   Use of Purchase Ordering
Article C: Preservation Tax Incentive
1-5-60   Special Tax Assessment, Created
1-5-61   Purpose
1-5-62   Eligible Properties
1-5-63   Eligible Rehabilitation
1-5-64   Process
Article D: Property Tax Credit
1-5-75   Property Tax Credit
ARTICLE A: PROPERTY TAX
§ 1-5-1 ANNUAL LEVY; RATE.
   The City Council shall impose by ordinance an annual tax in such amount as
it may deem necessary for corporate purposes upon the assessed value of all
real estate lying within the corporate limits of the city and all personal
property with a taxable status within the city, except such as is exempt from
taxation under the constitution and laws of this state. Such tax shall be
levied by the City Council on the property within the corporate limits as
assessed for state and county purposes.
State Law Reference:
   Property subject to municipal taxes, S.C. Code § 5-21-110
   Uniform assessment, S.C. Code § 12-37-30
§ 1-5-2 ANNUAL STATEMENT OF VALUATION AND OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY.
   The Finance Director of the city shall annually make out for taxation a
statement of the valuation of all the property, real or personal, within the
corporate limits of the city and by whom the property is owned.
(1977 Code, § 1-5003)
§ 1-5-3 USE OF COUNTY ASSESSMENT BOOKS.
   The Finance Director may copy from the books of the auditor of Dillon County
the assessment of valuation thereon found and may use the same as a basis of
assessment of taxes for municipal purposes.
(1977 Code, § 12-37-40)
§ 1-5-4 ASSESSMENT OF PROPERTY NOT ON COUNTY BOOKS.
   The Finance Director may assess property not found upon the books of the
auditor of Dillon County.
(1977 Code, § 1-5005)
§ 1-5-5 TAXES DUE AND PAYABLE.
   All taxes are due and payable between September 30 and January 15 after
their assessment in each year. The Finance Director shall collect the taxes in
the manner prescribed by law and give receipts therefore to the persons paying
them. Any taxes paid by a delinquent taxpayer must be applied to the oldest
chronological delinquency on the property for which payment was intended. In
the receipts and tax notices the real estate paid on must be briefly described
including tax map number and an identifiable description and the value and a
description of the personal property paid on must be stated, together with the
date the taxes are paid, and the amount paid.
State Law Reference:
   Time for paying and collection of taxes, S.C. Code § 12-45-70
§ 1-5-6 WHEN TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS NOT PAID.
   When the taxes and assessments or any portion thereof charged against any
property or person on the duplicate for the current fiscal year are not paid
before January 16 or 30 days after the mailing of tax notices, whichever occurs
later, the Finance Director shall add a penalty of three percent (3%) on the
tax duplicate and the Finance Director shall collect the penalty; and if the
taxes and penalty are not paid before the second (2nd) day of the next
February, an additional penalty of seven percent (7%) must be added by the
Finance Director on the tax duplicate and collected by the Finance Director,
and if the taxes and penalties are not paid before the 17th day of the next
March, an additional penalty of five percent (5%)must be added by the Finance
Director on the tax duplicate and collected by the Finance Director and the
Finance Director shall issue his tax execution. The United States postmark is
the determining date for mailed payments.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-7 EXECUTION AGAINST DEFAULTING TAXPAYERS.
   After the Finance Director issues his execution against a defaulting
taxpayer in his jurisdiction, as provided in §
1-5-6, signed by him or his agent in his official capacity, requiring him to
levy the execution by distress and sale of so much of the defaulting taxpayer's
estate, real or personal, or both, as may be sufficient to satisfy the taxes
and penalties, he shall:
   (A)   On April 1 or as soon thereafter as practicable, mail a notice of
delinquent property taxes, penalties, assessments, and costs, to the person at
the address shown on the tax receipt or at the more correct address if it is
known. The notice shall specify that if the taxes, penalties, assessments, and
costs are not paid, the property must be duly advertised and sold to satisfy
the delinquency.
(Ord. 90-16, passed- -)
   (B)   If the taxes remain unpaid after thirty (30) days from the date of
mailing of the delinquent notice, or as soon thereafter as practicable, take
exclusive possession of so much of the defaulting taxpayer's property as is
necessary to satisfy the payment of the taxes, penalties, assessments, and
costs. In the case of real property, exclusive possession is taken by mailing a
notice of delinquent property taxes, penalties, assessments, and costs to the
defaulting taxpayer at the address shown on the tax receipt or to a more
correct address known to the officer, by "certified mail, return receipt
requested; deliver to addressee only." In the case of personal property,
exclusive possession is taken by mailing the notice of delinquent property
taxes, penalties, assessments, and costs to the person at the address shown on
the tax receipt or to a more correct address known to the officer. All
delinquent notices shall specify that if the taxes, penalties, assessments, and
costs are not paid on or before a subsequent sales date, the property must be
duly advertised and sold for delinquent property taxes, penalties, assessments
and costs. The return receipt of the certified mail notice is equivalent to
levying by distress.
   (C)   In the event the certified mail notice has been returned, take
exclusive physical possession of the property against which the taxes,
penalties, assessments, and costs were assessed by posting a notice at one or
more conspicuous places on the premises, in the case of real estate, reading:
"Seized by the City of Dillon to be sold for delinquent taxes." The posting of
the notice is equivalent to levying by distress, seizing, and taking exclusive
possession thereof, or by taking exclusive possession of personal property. In
the case of personal property, the Finance Director is not required to move the
personal property from where situated at the time of seizure and further, the
personal property may not be moved after seizure by anyone under penalty of
conversion unless delinquent taxes, assessments, and costs have been paid.
Mobile homes are considered to be personal property for the purposes of this
section unless the owner gives written notice to the county auditor of the
mobile home's annexation to the land on which it is situated.
   (D)   The property must be advertised for sale at public auction. The
advertisement must be in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality and must be entitled "Delinquent Tax Sale." It shall include the
delinquent taxpayer's name and description of the property, a reference to the
county auditor's map-block-parcel number being sufficient for a description of
realty. The advertising must be published once a week prior to the legal sales
date for three (3) consecutive weeks for the sale of real property and two (2)
consecutive weeks for the sale of personal property. All expenses of the levy,
seizure, and sale must be added and collected as additional costs, and shall
include, but not be limited to, the expense of taking possession of real or
personal property, advertising, storing, identifying the boundaries of the
property, and mailing certified notices.
(Ord. CM-90-16, passed 7-9-1990)
State Law Reference:
   Execution and Sale of Property, S.C. Code §§ 12-51-40 et seq.
§ 1-5-8 ADVERTISED PROPERTY MUST BE SOLD.
   The property duly advertised must be sold by the Finance Director at public
auction at the county courthouse on a legal sales date during regular hours for
legal tender payable in full on the date of the sale. In case the defaulting
taxpayer has more than one (1) item advertised to be sold, as soon as
sufficient funds have been accrued to cover all of the defaulting taxpayer's
delinquent taxes and penalties, no further items may be sold.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-9 SUCCESSFUL BIDDER AT DELINQUENT TAX SALES.
   The successful bidder at the delinquent tax sale shall pay legal tender to
the Finance Director in the full amount of the bid on the day of the sale. Upon
payment, the Finance Director shall furnish the purchaser a receipt for the
purchase money and attach a copy of the receipt to the execution with the
endorsement of his actions which must be retained by him. All monies received
including any excess due the defaulting taxpayer after payment of delinquent
taxes and penalties must be retained, paid out, and accounted for by the
Finance Director.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-10 FAILURE TO REMIT.
   In the case the successful bidder fails to remit in legal tender within the
time specified, the Finance Director shall cancel that bid and may duly re-
advertise the same property for sale, in the same manner, on a subsequent
delinquent tax sale date. The defaulting bidder is liable for no more than
three hundred dollars ($300) damages upon default, which may be collected by
suit by the Finance Director in the name of the taxing authority.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-11 REDEMPTION OF ITEMS OF REAL ESTATE.
   The defaulting taxpayer, any grantee from the owner, or any mortgage or
judgment creditor may within twelve (12) months from the date of the delinquent
tax sale redeem each item of real estate by paying to the Finance Director the
taxes and penalties together with eight percent (8%) interest on the whole
amount of the delinquent tax sale bid. If prior to the expiration of the
redemption period, the purchaser assigns his interest in any real property
purchased at a delinquent tax sale, the grantee from the successful bidder
shall furnish the Finance Director a conveyance, witnessed, and notarized. The
Finance Director shall replace the successful bidder's name and address with
the grantee's name and address in the delinquent tax sale book.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-12 CANCELLATION OF SALE.
   Upon the real estate being redeemed, the Finance Director shall cancel the
sale in the tax sale book and note thereon the amount paid, by whom and when.
The successful purchaser at the delinquent tax sale shall promptly be notified
by mail to return the tax sale receipt to the Finance Director in order to be
expeditiously refunded the purchase price plus the eight percent (8%) interest
provided in §
1-5-11.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-13 NO REDEMPTION PERIOD FOR PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   For personal property, there is no redemption period subsequent to the time
that the property is struck off to the successful purchaser at the delinquent
tax sale. Upon payment by the successful purchaser and delivery of the tax
receipt with description and notation by the Finance Director, he shall deliver
to the successful purchaser the following form properly executed which is his
bill of sale and right of possession:
   "Sold to___________at delinquent tax sale on___________ who is the
successful purchaser of personal property sold for delinquent taxes.
                        _____________________________"
                           Finance Director
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-14 NOTICE.
   Neither more than forty-five (45) days nor less than twenty (20) days prior
to the end of the redemption period for real estate sold for delinquent taxes,
the Finance Director shall mail a notice by "certified mail, return receipt
requested; deliver to addressee only" to the owner of record immediately
preceding the end of the redemption period at the best address of the owner
available to the Finance Director that the real property described on the
notice has been sold for delinquent taxes and if not redeemed by paying taxes
and penalties and eight percent (8%) interest on the bid price in the total
amount of _____dollars on or before ________(twelve (12) months from the date
of sale) ______(date) a tax title will be delivered to the successful purchaser
at the tax sale. Under this article, the return of the certified mail
"undelivered" is not grounds for a tax title to be withheld or be found
defective and ordered set aside or canceled of record.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-15 TAX TITLE.
   Upon failure of the defaulting taxpayer, any grantee from the owner, or any
mortgage or judgment creditor, to redeem realty within the time period allowed
for redemption, the Finance Director shall within thirty (30) days or as soon
thereafter as possible make a tax title to the purchaser or the purchaser's
assignee. Delivery of the tax title to the clerk of court is considered putting
the purchaser (or assignee) in possession. The tax title shall include, among
other things, the name of the defaulting taxpayer, the date of the execution,
the date the realty was posted and by whom, and the date each certified notice
was mailed to the party or parties of interest, to whom mailed and whether or
not received by the addressee. The successful purchaser (or assignee) is
responsible in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15) for the cost of the tax
title plus any documentary stamps necessary to be affixed and recording fees.
The successful purchaser (or assignee) shall pay the amounts to the Finance
Director before delivery of the tax title to the clerk of court and upon
payment the Finance Director is responsible for promptly transmitting the tax
title to the clerk of court for recording and remitting the recording fee and
documentary stamps cost. In case the tax sale of an item produced an overage in
cash above the full amount due in taxes and penalties, the overage shall belong
to the defaulting taxpayer to be claimed or assigned according to law. If
neither claimed nor assigned within five (5) years of date of public auction
tax sale, the overage shall escheat to the general fund of the city. Prior to
the escheat date, unclaimed overages must be kept in a separate account and
must be invested so as not to be idle and the city is entitled to the earnings
for keeping the overage. On escheat date, the overage must be transferred to
the general fund account of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-16 FINANCE DIRECTOR MAY VOID TAX SALES.
   In the case that the Finance Director discovers before a tax title has
passed, the failure of any action required to be properly performed, the
official may void the tax sale and refund the amount paid to the successful
bidder. If the full amount of the taxes and penalties have not been paid, the
property may be brought to tax sale as soon as practicable.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-17 EVIDENCE OF GOOD TITLE.
   In all cases of tax sale the deed of conveyance, whether executed to a
private person, a corporation, or a forfeited land commission, must be held and
taken as prima facie evidence of a good title in the holder, that the
proceedings have been regular and that all legal requirements have been
complied with. No action for the recovery of land sold under the provisions of
this chapter or for the recovery of the possession may be maintained unless
brought within two (2) years from the date of sale.
(Ord. passed 4-16-1986)
§ 1-5-18 LIEN TO ATTACH TO AFTER ACQUIRED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The lien for unpaid taxes on personal property shall also attach to any
personal property subsequently acquired by the delinquent taxpayer.
(1977 Code, § 1-5011)
State Law Reference:
   Lien on after-acquired property, S.C. Code § 12-49-30
§ 1-5-19 DISCOUNT ALLOWED ON PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   The City Council, upon annual review, may instruct the Finance Director to
offer an early payment discount of two percent (2%) for all taxpayers whose
taxes are received in the treasurer's office and paid in full on or before
November 30, each year. Such instruction shall be in the form of a motion, duly
passed by Council, annually, and entered into the minutes of the proceedings of
the City Council.
(1977 Code, § 1-5007) (Am. Ord. CM-62, passed 7-14-1986)
§ 1-5-20 FEES FOR TAX EXECUTIONS AND SALES.
   The Finance Director shall be allowed the same fees and costs in the
enforcement of the executions and for sales thereunder, as are allowed,
respectively, to the county treasurer and the county delinquent tax collector.
The fees and costs shall be enforceable and collectible in the same manner as
fees and costs under county and state tax executions and on sales thereunder.
(1977 Code, § 1-5009)
§ 1-5-21 FISCAL YEAR.
   The city shall operate on the basis of a fiscal year commencing on July 1
and ending on June 30 of the following year.
ARTICLE B: PURCHASING
§ 1-5-31 PURCHASING AGENT; SPECIFIED DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager, or his designee, shall be the purchasing agent for
the city. He/she shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The purchase of supplies, materials, and equipment and contractual
services required by any office, department or agency of the city government.
      (2)   The storage and distribution of all supplies, materials, and
equipment required by any office, department or agency of the city government.
      (3)   Establishing written specifications, whenever practicable, for
supplies, materials and equipment required by any office, department or agency
of the city government. Such specifications shall be definite and certain and
shall permit competition.
      (4)   Maintaining, whenever practicable, a perpetual inventory record of
all materials, supplies, or equipment stored in storerooms and warehouses.
      (5)   Soliciting and maintaining an up-to-date list of qualified
suppliers who have requested their names to be added to a bidders list. The
purchasing agent shall have authority to remove temporarily the names of
vendors who have defaulted on their quotations, attempted to defraud the city
or who have failed to meet established specifications or delivery dates.
      (6)   Obtaining as full and open competition as possible on all
purchases, contracts and sales.
   (B)   All items anticipated to be purchased during the fiscal year shall be
listed in the annual appropriation ordinance. Council acceptance of this
ordinance shall constitute approval of purchases to the extent of the
appropriation. No further Council action will be necessary to consummate
purchases unless financing is required.
(Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 5-12-2014)
Cross Reference:
   Procedure for approval of vouchers, Sec.
1-4-27(B)
§ 1-5-32 CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein,
shall be purchased by the following method:
   (A)   $7,000.00 or less. Requires no formal bid but the purchaser will
ensure that the lowest cost is sought, when possible, by receiving oral quotes
from at least two (2) vendors.
   (B)   $7,000.00 - $34,999.99. Requires a minimum of three (3) written quotes
be obtained with the award given to the lowest bidder. A written quote can
consist of an email, fax, mail, internet, or similar means.
   (C)   $35,000 and above. Requires that the purchase be advertised formally
through local press, publication in the South Carolina Business Opportunities
(SCBO), related trade journals or other similar publications.
(Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 9-11-2023; Am. Ord.
25-02, passed 6-9-2025)
§ 1-5-33 BIDDING; COMPETITIVE, REQUIRED EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Before any purchases or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment
or services exceeding thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) are made, the
purchaser shall give ample opportunity for competitive bidding. However, in the
event of emergency affecting the public welfare, health, or safety the
provisions of this section shall not apply. A full report of the circumstances
of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the City Manager with the City
Council.
   (B)   Should the purchase be classified as a sole source procurement,
documentation approved by the City Manager shall be filed with any quote
received by/from the vendor. A purchase may be classified as a sole source for
one of the following reasons:
      (1)   Only one vendor that can provide a specific product or service.
      (2)   A brand or make has been established from conformity to standardize
equipment, improve maintenance, or similar reasons.
      (3)   A specific brand has been established based through reviews,
testing, availability, and ability to work with other owned products or similar
reasons.
(Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 9-11-2023; Am. Ord.
25-02, passed 6-9-2025)
§ 1-5-34 AWARD TO LOWEST BIDDER; ADVERTISING, WHEN REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All contracts for city improvements, materials, equipment or
services costing thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) or more shall be
awarded to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder after being formally
advertised as described in §
1-5-32. At least five (5) days before the last day set for receipt of
proposals; provided, however, that in case of professional services, this
section shall not apply. The notice shall include general description of the
article or services to be purchased, where specifications may be secured and
the time and place for bid opening. Notices and amendments may also be posted
on the city's website.
      (2)   When the procurement involves expenditures of state and or federal
funds, the state or federal regulations shall be followed.
      (3)   The city encourages minority and or women owned businesses
participation.
      (4)   A local bidder with a valid business license from the City of
Dillon (for a period of at least one (1) year from the date that bids are
solicited) will have a five percent (5%) advantage.
      (5)   Sealed bids must be opened at a scheduled time with at least one
member of City Council present. This will be for non-federal or state funded
projects thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) or more.
   (B)   The following are exempt from competitive bidding requirements:
      (1)   Professional services where the person employed is customarily
employed on a fee basis rather than by competitive bidding (example: appraiser,
planner, utility rate specialist, architect-engineer, auditor, legal services,
physician);
      (2)   Competitive sealed proposals;
      (3)   Negotiations after unsuccessful competitive sealed bidding;
      (4)   Small purchases;
      (5)   Sole source procurement;
      (6)   Emergency procurement;
      (7)   Procurement of information technology;
      (8)   Leasing of real property for governmental use;
      (9)   When purchasing through state contracts or other governments or
nonprofit agencies.
(Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 9-11-2023; Am. Ord.
25-02, passed 6-9-2025)
§ 1-5-35 BID DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the purchasing agent, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Upon entering into a contract,
bidders shall be entitled to return of bid deposit where the purchasing agent
has required such. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required
by the purchasing agent upon failure on his part to enter into a contract
within fourteen (14) days after the award; provided, however, that the city, in
its uncontrolled discretion, may waive this forfeiture.
§ 1-5-36 SEALED BID PROCEDURES.
   Procedure for sealed bids shall be as follows:
   (A)   Sealing. When required, bids shall be submitted to the purchasing
agent securely sealed in an envelope, and shall be identified on the envelope
in accordance with bid instructions.
   (B)   Opening. Sealed bids, when appropriate, shall be opened in public at
the time and place stated in the public notices.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public inspection.
   (D)   Rejection of Bids. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
   (E)   Bidders in Default to City. The purchasing agent shall not accept the
bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in the payment of taxes,
license, or other monies due the city.
   (F)   Award of Contract:
      (1)   Authority in Agent. The purchasing agent shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this article; provided, however, that
the funds have been approved by Council in the current fiscal year’s budget or
through a majority vote during an official meeting.
      (2)   Lowest Responsible Bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining lowest responsible bidder, in addition to
price, the purchasing agent shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   Responsive Bidder. Contracts shall be awarded only to bidders that
are deemed responsive by the procurement agent of the city. A bidder may be
deemed non-responsive for the following reasons.
         (a)   Bid not signed or not signed by someone with authority to enter
into a contract with the city.
         (b)   Bid was submitted on an advertisement that has been amended.
         (c)   Actual cost cannot be determined based on what was submitted.
         (d)   The offer failed to provide pricing for the products or services
specified in the bid.
   (G)   Award to Other Than Low Bidder. In cases where the purchasing agent
recommends the award to other than the lowest bidder, a full and complete
statement of the reasons for placing the order elsewhere shall be prepared by
the purchasing agent and reported to the City Council. Records of any such
recommendation and award shall be held for a period of no less than twelve (12)
months.
   (H)   Tie Bids. If all bids received are for the same total amount or unit
price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to the
local bidder. If two (2) or more of such bids are submitted by local bidders,
the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one (1) of the local tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. If local bidders are not involved in the tie
bids, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one (1) of the outside
tie bidders by drawing lots in public. The purchasing agent, local bidders, and
vendors should bear in mind, however, that to award a contract to a local
vendor where he is not the lowest responsible bidder, or where price, quality
and service are not equal, is to give preference to one (1) minute segment of
the citizenry against the best interests of the community as a whole.
   (I)   Performance Bonds. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such form and
amount as he shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interest of
the city.
   (J)   Payment Bond/Labor and Material Bond. The purchasing agent may require
a payment bond and a labor and material bond before entering into a contract,
in such form and amount as he shall deem necessary to protect the best interest
of the city.
   (K)   Protested Solicitations and Awards.
      (1)   Right to Protest.  Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or
contractor who is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a
contract may protest to the Procurement Director, except as otherwise stated in
this article. The protest shall be submitted in writing within ten (10)
calendar days after the aggrieved person knows or should have known of the
facts giving rise thereto.
      (2)   Authority to Resolve Protests. The Procurement Director shall have
authority, prior to being heard by Council, to settle and resolve a protest by
an aggrieved bidder, offeror, or a contractor, actual or prospective,
concerning the solicitation or award of a contract.
      (3)   Decision.  If the protest is not resolved by mutual agreement, the
Procurement Director shall issue a decision in writing within ten (10) calendar
days. The decision shall:
         (a)   State the reasons for the action taken; and
         (b)   Inform the protestant of its rights to Council review, as
provided in this article.
      (4)   Notice of Decision.  A copy of the decision under subsection (K)(3)
of this section shall be mailed or otherwise furnished immediately to the
protestant and any other intervening party. Copies of the notices will be
provided to City Council as well.
      (5)   Finality of Decision.  A decision under subsection (K)(3) of this
section shall be final and conclusive, unless:
         (a)   Fraudulent, or
         (b)   A person adversely affected by the decision appeals
administratively to City Council in accordance with this article.
      (6)   Appeals to City Council. A decision by the Procurement Officer can
be appealed to City Council within five (5) days after a decision is issued
through a written request addressed to City Council. The request must outline
the reasons the appellant is adversely affected by a decision, and the desired
outcome of a hearing. The request will be heard by Council at the next
scheduled City Council meeting. The decision of City Council will finalize the
award.
(Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 1-5-37 MATERIALS TESTING.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries which
are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications. In the performance of such tests, the purchasing agent shall
have the authority to make use of laboratory facilities of any agency of the
city government or any outside laboratory.
§ 1-5-38 FINANCIAL INTEREST OF CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   No member of the City Council or any officer or employee of the city shall
have a financial interest in any contract or in the sale to the city or to a
contractor supplying the city of any land or rights or interests in any land,
material, supplies or services; except when a majority of the City Council
determines such exception in the best interest of the city, provided, that no
member whose interest is involved shall vote on the question. Any willful
violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office, and any
officer or employee of the city found guilty thereof shall thereby forfeit his
office or position. Any violation of this section with knowledge express or
implied of that person or corporation contracting with the city shall render
the contract voidable by the City Manager or the City Council.
State Law Reference:
   Conflict of interests of municipal officer or employee, S.C. Code § 5-7-130
   Municipal officers prohibited from contracting with municipality, S.C. Code
§ 5-21-30
§ 1-5-39 RECORDS OF OPEN MARKET ORDERS AND BIDS.
   The purchasing agent shall keep a record of all open market orders and the
bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records shall also be open to
public inspection.
§ 1-5-40 STOCK REPORTS.
   All offices, departments or agencies of the city government shall submit to
the purchasing agent, at such times and in such form as he shall prescribe,
reports showing stocks of all supplies which are no longer used or which have
become obsolete, worn out or scrapped.
§ 1-5-41 SURPLUS STOCK.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to transfer surplus stock to other
offices, departments or agencies of the city government.
§ 1-5-42 SUPPLIES UNSUITABLE FOR PUBLIC USE, SALE OR EXCHANGE.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to sell all supplies which
have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or trade-in
the same on, new supplies. Such sales shall be made to the highest bidder, and
in conformance with §§
1-5-32 through
1-5-37. All monies received from such sales shall be paid into the appropriate
fund of the city.
§ 1-5-43 GIFTS AND REBATES.
   The purchasing agent and every officer and employee of the city are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is, or
might be, awarded, any rebate, gift, money, or anything of value whatsoever,
except where given for the use and benefit of the city.
§ 1-5-44 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the city
would be served thereby; provided that the purchasing agent of the city is
given the authority to make purchases of supplies and equipment through the
property division of the State Budget and Control Board, without the formality
of publication and receiving competitive bids, and provided further, that the
purchasing agent may purchase equipment, supplies, materials and services
directly from another governmental entity without resorting to the provisions
of this ordinance.
State Law Reference:
   State Procurement Code provisions, S.C. Code § 11-35-10 et seq.
§ 1-5-45 USE OF PURCHASE ORDERING.
   Any expenditure five hundred dollars ($500) or less does not have to have a
purchase order number. However all invoices shall be stamped and charged to the
appropriate line item. If the purchase price is more than five hundred dollars
($500), a purchase order must be used and filled out to turn into the finance
officer before the arrival of goods, invoice and/or statement. A signature is
required from the City Manager or Finance Director unless it is an emergency.
(Ord. 97-20, passed 11-10-1997)
ARTICLE C: PRESERVATION TAX INCENTIVE
§ 1-5-60 SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT, CREATED.
   A special tax assessment is created for eligible rehabilitated historic
properties for a period of eight (8) years, equal to the appraised value at the
time of the Preliminary Certification. Note: process is a total of ten (10)
years, two (2) years-Preliminary Certification, Final Certification - eight (8)
years assessment).
(Ord. 09-17, passed 10-12-2009; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 1-5-61 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to:
   (A)   Encourage the rehabilitation of historic properties;
   (B)   Promote community development and redevelopment;
   (C)   Encourage sound community planning; and
   (D)   Promote the general health, safety, and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 10-12-2009; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 1-5-62 ELIGIBLE PROPERTIES.
   The Dillon City Council hereby confirms the BAR, Board of Architectural
Review - City of Dillon, to certify historic properties as eligible to receive
the special tax assessment based on the requirements of this article.
   (A)   Eligible Properties. To be certified as eligible, properties must:
      (1)   Be listed on the National Register of Historic Places, either
individually or as a contributing property in a district; or
      (2)   Be fifty (50) or more years old and have been designated as
historic by the Council, either individually or as contributing property in a
local historic district;
      (3)   Must not be condemned by the City of Dillon Code Enforcement.
   (B)   Moved Properties. The moving of historic buildings from their original
site is generally discouraged. If such property is moved as part of a
rehabilitation project it may be eligible for the special tax assessment if:
      (1)   It has been locally designated as historic but will retain, on the
new site, the characteristics that made it eligible for historic designation on
the former site;
      (2)   It has not yet been designated historic but will meet designation
criteria on its new site; or
      (3)   It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and the
movement meets all standards and procedures of the U.S. Department of the
Interior and South Carolina Department of Archives and History.
   (C)   Removal of Eligibility for the Special Assessment. Dillon City Council
may remove a designated property from the list of eligible properties if it no
longer possesses the qualities that made it eligible for designation, provided
that:
      (1)   The property has been removed from the National Register of
Historic Places and has not been designated under the local criteria included
in division (B) of this section; and
      (2)   Owners of property proposed for removal of designation shall be
given thirty (30) days notice prior to such action and are given opportunity to
present evidence why such removal should not be conducted.
   (D)   Certification. To be eligible for the special tax assessment, the
rehabilitation work must receive Preliminary and Final Certification.
      (1)   To receive Preliminary Certification a property must meet the
following conditions:
         (a)   The Dillon City Council has designated the property historic;
         (b)   The proposed rehabilitation work receives approval from the BAR;
and
         (c)   Rehabilitation work is approved prior to beginning work.
      (2)   To receive Final Certification a property must meet the following
conditions:
         (a)   The property has received Preliminary Certification;
         (b)   The minimum expenditures for rehabilitation were incurred and
paid; and
         (c)   The completed project receives approval from the BAR.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 10-12-2009; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 1-5-63 ELIGIBLE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Standards for Rehabilitation. To be eligible for the special tax
assessment, project work must meet the following standards.
      (1)   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site and environment.
      (2)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alterations or features and
spaces that characterize each property shall be avoided.
      (3)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development
shall not be undertaken.
      (4)   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      (5)   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property should be preserved.
      (6)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new should match the old in design, color, texture,
and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of
missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial
evidence.
      (7)   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      (8)   Significant archeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
      (9)   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the historic property and its environment.
      (10)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, (tie essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
   (B)   Work to be Reviewed. The BAR shall review the following work according
to the standards set forth above.
      (1)   Repairs to the exterior of the designated building.
      (2)   Alterations to the exterior of the designated building.
      (3)   New construction on the property on which the building is located.
      (4)   Alterations to interior primary public spaces.
      (5)   Any remaining work where the expenditures for such work are being
used to satisfy the minimum expenditures for rehabilitation.
   (C)   (1)   Minimum expenditures for rehabilitation means the owner or his
estate rehabilitates the building, with expenditures for rehabilitation:
         (a)   Exceeding twenty-five percent (25%) of the fair market value of
the building for residential owner occupied property; or
         (b)   Exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the fair market value of the
building for commercial income producing property.
      (2)   Fair market value means the appraised value as certified to the
Dillon City Council by a real estate appraiser licensed by the state of South
Carolina, appraisal(s) to be paid for by owner, the sales price as delineated
in a bona fide contract of sale within six (6) months of the time it is
submitted, or the most recent appraised value published by the Dillon County
Tax Assessor.
   (D)   Expenditures for rehabilitation means the actual costs of
rehabilitation relating to one or more of the following:
      (1)   Improvements located on or within the historic building as
designated;
      (2)   Improvements outside of but directly attached to the historic
building which are necessary to make the building fully useable (such as
vertical circulation) but shall not include rentable/habitable floor space
attributable to new construction;
      (3)   Architectural and engineering services attributable to the design
of the improvements; or
      (4)   Costs necessary to maintain the historic character or integrity of
the building.
   (E)   Scope. The special tax assessment may apply to the following:
      (1)   Structure(s) that are rehabilitated;
      (2)   Real property on which the building is located; and
      (3)   Buildings and/or structures that are historically and/or
architecturally significant to the rehabilitated property, as determined by the
BAR, including but not limited to historic outbuildings such as garages,
carriage houses, and agricultural or other buildings related to the historic
use of the property.
   (F)   Time limits to be eligible for the special tax assessment,
rehabilitation work must be completed within two (2) years of the Preliminary
Certification date. If the project is not complete after two (2) years, but the
minimum expenditures for rehabilitation have been incurred, the property
continues to receive the special assessment until the project is completed, but
no longer than the period set forth in §
1-5-60.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 10-12-2009; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 1-5-64 PROCESS.
   (A)   Plan Required. 
      (1)   Owners of property seeking approval of rehabilitation work must
complete a Rehabilitated Historic Property Application as developed by the SHPO
or developed by the local government, with supporting documentation prior to
beginning work. Approval is mandatory through application of a COA prior to
beginning work.
      (2)   Owners who complete rehabilitation work prior to approval of the
application are at risk of not receiving approval for this program.
   (B)   Reviewing Authority. The Reviewing Authority shall be the City of
Dillon Board of Architectural Review.
   (C)   Preliminary Certification. Upon receipt of the completed COA
application the proposal shall be provided to the BAR to determine if the
project is consistent with the standards for rehabilitation in §
1-5-62(C). After the BAR makes its determination, the owner shall be notified
in writing. Upon receipt of this determination the owner may:
      (1)   Begin rehabilitation; if the COA application is approved;
      (2)   Revise such application in accordance with the special conditions
provided by the BAR if the application is approved with special conditions;
      (3)   Revise such application in accordance with comments provided by the
BAR, if the application is not approved; or
      (4)   Appeal the decision to the South Carolina Department of Archives
and History if the application is not approved. (In the case where the South
Carolina Department of Archives and History is the reviewing authority, the
appeal is made to the Appeal Committee of the State Review Board.)
   (D)   Substantive Changes. Once Preliminary Certification is granted to an
application, the BAR must approve substantive changes through the COA process.
Unapproved substantive changes are conducted at the risk of the property owner
and may disqualify the project from eligibility.
   (E)   Final Certification. Upon completion of the project, the project must
receive Final Certification in order to be eligible for the special assessment.
The BAR will inspect completed projects to determine if the work is consistent
with the approval granted by the BAR pursuant to §
1-5-63. Final Certification will be granted when the completed work meets the
standards and verification is made that expenditures have been made in
accordance with §
1-5-63(C) and (D). Upon receiving Final Certification, the property will be
assessed for the remainder of the special assessment period, up to eight (8)
years, on the fair market value of the property at the time the Preliminary
Certification was made or the Final Certification was made, whichever occurred
earlier.
   (F)   Additional Work. For the remainder of the special assessment period
after Final Certification, the property owner shall notify the BAR of any
additional work, other than ordinary maintenance. The BAR shall review the work
and determine whether the overall project is consistent with the standards for
rehabilitation. If the additional work is found to be inconsistent, the
property owner may withdraw his request, revise the proposed additional work,
or seek an appeal decision as set forth in division (C) of this section.
Additional expenditures after Final Certification will not qualify the project
for an extension on the special assessment.
   (G)   Decertification.
      (1)   When the property has received Final Certification and assessed as
Rehabilitated Historic Property, it remains so certified and must be granted
the special assessment until the property becomes disqualified by any one of
the following:
         (a)   Written notice by the owner to the BAR and the auditor to remove
the preferential assessment;
         (b)   Sale or transfer of ownership during the special assessment
period of eight (8) years, other than in ordinary course within probate
proceedings;
         (c)   Removal of eligibility for the special assessment (historic
designation) by the Dillon City Council;
         (d)   Rescission of the approval of rehabilitation work by the BAR
because alterations or renovation by the owner or his or her estate cause the
property to no longer possess the qualities and features which made it eligible
for Final Certification.
      (2)   Notification of any change affecting eligibility must be given
immediately to the County Assessor, Auditor, and Treasurer.
   (H)   Date Effective.
      (1)   If an application for Preliminary or Final Certification is filed
by May 1 or the Preliminary or Final Certification is approved by August 1, the
special assessment authorized herein is effective for that year. Otherwise, it
is effective beginning with the following year.
      (2)   The special assessment only begins in the current or future tax
years. In no instance may the special assessment be applied retroactively.
   (I)   Application. After the property has received Preliminary or Final
Certification, the owner of the property shall make application to the County
Auditor for the special assessment.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 10-12-2009; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 4-10-2017)
ARTICLE D: PROPERTY TAX CREDIT
§ 1-5-75 PROPERTY TAX CREDIT.
   (A)   Twenty-five percent of the actual rehabilitation expenses incurred at
the building site currently known as Dillon County Tax Map Number 059-10-34-007
shall be credited to the property owners of said property as described in (B)
below. S.C. Code § 12-67-140(3)(a) shall govern any necessary adjustments to
this credit if the actual expenses incurred are less than 80% or more than 125%
of the estimated expenses.
   (B)   The credit shall be taken as a credit against up to 75% of the real
property taxes due on the building site each year; beginning the year that the
property is first in service, for up to eight years, pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-67-140(3)(a).
   (C)   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-67-140, the local taxing entities shall
share the tax credit application in the same ratio as the local taxing ratio,
at the time of the property owner filing the Notice of Intent to Rehabilitate,
which according to the County Auditor is as follows:
      (1)   County of Dillon: 32.46451%
      (2)   City of Dillon: 22.573889%
      (3)   Dillon County School Board: 44.961601%
(Ord. 19-06, passed 12-9-2019)
CHAPTER 6: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
Article A: General Provisions
1-6-1   Established
1-6-2   Jurisdiction
1-6-3   Suspension of Sentence
1-6-4   Disposition of Fines and Penalties
1-6-5   Appeals
1-6-6   Trial by Jury; Waiver
1-6-7   Jury Commissioners
1-6-8   Sessions
1-6-9 through 1-6-20 Reserved
Article B: Court Personnel
1-6-21   Municipal Judge
1-6-22   Clerk
1-6-23   Ministerial Recorders
ARTICLE A: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1-6-1   ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a municipal court for the city which shall be a
part of the unified judicial system of the State of South Carolina, pursuant to
Act No. 480 of 1980, for the trial and determination of all cases within its
jurisdiction.
(1977 Code, § 1-7001) (Am. Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-2   JURISDICTION.
   The municipal court shall have jurisdiction to try all cases arising under
the ordinances of the city. The court shall also have all such powers, duties
and jurisdiction in criminal cases made under state law and conferred upon
magistrates. The court shall have the power to punish for contempt of court by
imposition of sentences up to the limits specified herein. The court shall have
no jurisdiction in civil matters. Whenever the municipal judge finds a party
guilty of violating a municipal ordinance or state law within the jurisdiction
of the court, he may impose a fine or imprisonment, or both, not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200) or thirty (30) days.
(1977 Code, § 1-7002 and 1-7003) (Am. Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-3   SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE.
   The municipal judge may suspend sentences imposed by him upon such terms and
conditions as he deems proper including, within limitation, restitution or
public service employment.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-4   DISPOSITION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fines and penalties collected by the municipal court shall be forthwith
turned over by the Clerk to the Finance Director for deposit to the general
fund of the municipality.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-5   APPEALS.
   Any party shall have the right to appeal from the sentence or judgment of
the municipal court to the Court of General Sessions. Notice of intention to
appeal, setting forth the grounds for appeal, shall be given in writing and
served on the municipal judge or the Clerk of the municipal court within ten
(10) days after sentence is passed or judgment rendered, or the appeal shall be
deemed waived. The party appealing shall enter into a bond, payable to the
municipality, to appear and defend such appeal at the next term of the Court of
General Sessions or shall pay the fine assessed. In the event of an appeal, the
municipal judge shall make a return to the Court of General Sessions as
provided by S.C. Code § 14-25-105.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-6   TRIAL BY JURY; WAIVER.
   Any person to be tried in the municipal court may, prior to trial, demand a
jury trial, and such jury when demanded, shall be composed of six (6) persons
drawn from the qualified electors of the municipality in the manner prescribed
by law. The right to a jury trial shall be deemed to have been waived unless
demand is made prior to trial.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-7   JURY COMMISSIONERS.
   The City Council shall serve as jury commissioners for the municipal court.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-8   SESSIONS.
   The municipal judge shall conduct and schedule court sessions at such times
and in such manner as he deems appropriate in order to dispose of court matters
in a timely fashion.
ARTICLE B: COURT PERSONNEL
§ 1-6-21 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The court shall be presided over by one (1) or more full-time or part-time
judges, at the discretion of Council. The municipal judge shall be appointed by
Council for a term fixed by Council not to exceed four (4) years. The
compensation of the municipal judge shall be as from time to time may be
determined by Council. Vacancies shall be filled in accordance with S.C. Code §
14-25-25.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-22 CLERK.
   The Council shall designate a Clerk of municipal court, who shall keep such
records and make such reports as may be required by the municipal judge or the
state court administrator. Council may designate the Municipal Clerk or other
municipal employee to serve as Clerk of the court.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
§ 1-6-23 MINISTERIAL RECORDERS.
   There is hereby established the office of ministerial recorder. Ministerial
recorders shall be elected from time to time by Council, and shall serve at its
pleasure or until the office is vacated when employment with the municipality
is terminated. Ministerial recorders shall perform the powers provided by law.
Ministerial recorders shall not be law enforcement officers.
(Ord. passed 12-8-1980)
CHAPTER 7: ELECTIONS
Section
1-7-1   Nominations
1-7-2   Elections; When Held
1-7-3   Procedure
1-7-4   Terms of Office
1-7-5   Method of Elections
1-7-6   Election Commission
1-7-7   Time of Taking Office; Contested Elections
§ 1-7-1 NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   All regular and special elections for the offices of Mayor and Council
shall be non-partisan general elections pursuant to state law. No political
party affiliation shall be placed on any ballot for any candidate.
   (B)   Nominations for the offices of Mayor and Council shall be by statement
of candidacy. Such statement shall be filed with the Election Commission no
more than ninety (90) but no less than forty-five (45) days prior to the date
for the election. Such statement of candidacy shall be accompanied by a fee of
one hundred and fifty dollars ($150). However, upon receipt of a sworn
affidavit certifying the candidate is a pauper, said filing fee shall be
waived.
(Ord. CM-90-19, passed 8-13-1990)
§ 1-7-2 ELECTIONS; WHEN HELD.
   (A)   Non-partisan general elections pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-63 shall
be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in April in each odd
numbered year.
   (B)   In the event of a tie vote for any office, a runoff primary or
election shall be held pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-125, two (2) weeks
following the primary or election in which the tie vote occurred.
   (C)   Special elections to fill vacancies shall be held pursuant to S.C.
Code § 7-13-190.
(Ord. 95-10, passed 6-12-1995)
§ 1-7-3 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A majority to be defined as one (1) vote more than one-half (1/2) the
total votes cast.
   (B)   If no candidate for a single office, receives a majority of votes cast
in the general election, a second election shall be conducted two (2) weeks
after the first election between the two (2) candidates who received the
highest vote count in the general election.
(Ord. CM-90-19, passed 8-13-1990)
   (C)   In the case of a single office, the candidate receiving a majority of
the votes cast in the runoff election shall be declared elected.
State Law Reference:
   Non-partisan election and runoff method, S.C. Code § 5-15-62
§ 1-7-4 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council members shall be elected for a term of four (4)
years.
   (B)   The term of office of Council members shall be staggered, so that one-
half (1/2) of the Council members shall be elected every two (2) years.
(1977 Code, § 1-8001)
§ 1-7-5 METHOD OF ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected by the city at large.
   (B)   The members of Council shall be elected by the city with one (1)
Council member from each of six (6) districts as follows: districts 1, 2,4,
elected for four (4) year terms beginning March, 1991; districts 3, 5, 6
elected for four (4) year terms beginning March, 1993.
(Ord. CM-90-19, passed 8-13-1990)
   (C)   The six (6) geographic boundaries of the districts of the Councilmen
to be elected in §
1-7-5(B) are outlined on the map attached to Ord. 22-08 entitled “City Election
District, Exhibit A” and dated September 12, 2022.
(Am. Ord. 22-08, passed 10-10-2022)
§ 1-7-6 ELECTION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Council shall appoint an Election Commission which shall have the
powers, functions and duties as prescribed by law.
   (B)   Commission appointees shall serve for a term of six (6) years,
provided that initial appointments shall be made in a manner to provide for
staggered terms and in accordance with state law.
(1977 Code, § 1-8003)
State Law Reference:
   Municipal election commission, S.C. Code §§ 5-15-90 et seq.
§ 1-7-7 TIME OF TAKING OFFICE; CONTESTED ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Newly elected officers shall not be qualified pursuant to state law
until the regular Council meeting in April next following the date of the
general election.
   (B)   If the results of the election are contested, the incumbent who fills
that contested office shall hold over until the contest is finally determined.
(1979 Code, § 1-8006)
State Law Reference:
   Contested elections, S.C. Code §§ 5-15-130 et seq.
CHAPTER 8: PERSONNEL POLICIES
(Repealed by Ord. 05-15, passed 10-10-2005)
TITLE 2: PUBLIC SAFETY
Chapter
   
1.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
   
2.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
3.   WRECKER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 1: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
2-1-1   Composition; Appointment
2-1-2   Chief of Police; Duties Generally
2-1-3   Same; Report on Money Transactions
2-1-4   Same; Additional Duties
2-1-5   Powers and Duties Generally of Police
2-1-6   Suspension or Discharge
2-1-7   Special Police Officers
2-1-8   Disposal of Fines
2-1-9   Rules and Regulations of Department
2-1-10   Oath
§ 2-1-1 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   The Police Department of the city shall consist of one (1) Chief, appointed
by the City Manager and the number of officers and patrolmen as may from time
to time be deemed necessary for the safety and good order of the city. The
members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the City Manager.
§ 2-1-2 CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the chief executive of the police force; he
shall be chargeable with and responsible for the execution of the various rules
and regulations of the Council and the provisions of this Code and other city
ordinances governing the Police Department, and all the provisions of this Code
and other ordinances and rules and laws of the city together with state laws
within the city. He shall make regular and stated reports to the City Manager
and the Council of the affairs of his department together with other matters
pertaining to his office or other duties required of him.
State Law Reference:
   Powers and duties of Chief of Police, S.C. Code § 14-25-55.
§ 2-1-3 SAME; REPORT ON MONEY TRANSACTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to present to the City Manager
for consideration an account of the transactions of his office involving the
collection of any monies or the expenditures of any monies by reason of his
office when requested by the City Manager.
§ 2-1-4 SAME; ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   The Chief of Police shall at all times discharge and perform other duties as
may be required of him by the City Manager or City Council.
§ 2-1-5 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY OF POLICE.
   All members of the Police Department of the city shall at all times be
subject to the rules and regulations as may from time to time be prescribed by
the Chief of Police and the City Council. Each member of the department shall
be sworn in and thereupon be invested with all the powers and be subject to all
of the duties of constable within the corporate limits of the city or its
police jurisdiction. Every police officer shall arrest and may hold in custody
by imprisonment in the city jail for a period not exceeding twenty-four (24)
hours before trial or hearing, unless the arrest be made on Saturday, in which
case it shall not exceed forty-eight (48) hours before trial or hearing, any
person who, in view of any officer within the corporate limits, shall be
engaged in a breach of the peace, riotous or disorderly conduct, open
obscenity, public drunkenness or any conduct grossly indecent.
(1977 Code, § 2-1005)
State Law Reference:
   Powers and duties of police officers, S.C. Code § 14-25-55
§ 2-1-6 SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE.
   The Chief of Police may peremptorily suspend or discharge any police officer
for neglect of duty or disobedience of orders but shall within twenty-four (24)
hours thereafter report the suspension or discharge, and the reason therefor to
the City Manager.
( 1977 Code, § 2-1006)
§ 2-1-7 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The City Manager, or his designate, may, upon an emergency or upon
apprehension of a mob, tumult or riot, appoint as many special police officers
as, in his judgment, are necessary. The special police officers shall be paid
such a sum as may be agreed upon for their services while actually employed.
§ 2-1-8 DISPOSAL OF FINES.
   No police officer shall be entitled to any portion of the fines imposed for
the violation of this Code or the ordinances of the city, but shall collect and
pay over the fines to the City Finance Director.
(1977 Code, § 2-1008)
§ 2-1-9 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF DEPARTMENT.
   The rules and regulations governing the Police Department of the city shall
be as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Police Department shall at all times be recognized
and respected by each member of the department as his commander and superior
officer, and in case of the slightest inattention or disobedience of the
Chief’s general or special orders by any member of the force, it shall be
reported to the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, with the assistance of
his officers, to properly distribute the members of the department over the
city, so as to get the best results and the most efficient service.
   (C)   Should any member of the Police Department fail or neglect, at any
time, to arrest or report any person for violating in any manner the laws or
ordinances of the city, the member shall be reported, and shall be liable to
suspension or discharge.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of each police officer before he locks up a
prisoner to take from the prisoner and turn over to the turnkey any and all
monies, arms, etc. found on his person.
   (E)   Each and every member of the Police Department shall report to the
Chief of Police each morning, at or before 9:00 a.m., all nuisances and
misdemeanors that may have occurred the previous night, giving the true and
correct name of the party offending, and in the case the true and correct name
of the party is unknown to the officer making the arrest, every reasonable
effort shall be made to ascertain the name. The name shall be entered on all
the books of the city in its true form.
   (F)   Each and every member of the Police Department, upon the arrest of any
person for violating the ordinances of the city, for public drunkenness,
profane swearing or other misdemeanor, shall require the person to give a valid
bond or valid pledge for his appearance at the municipal court at the times as
may be designated; otherwise he shall imprison the person.
   (G)   While on duty each and every police officer shall be in full uniform.
The style, etc. of the uniform shall be as may be prescribed by the City
Manager. Uniforms shall be kept clean and neatly pressed. Each police officer
shall keep his hair neatly trimmed, his face shaved and shall be fully armed as
the City Manager may require.
   (H)   While on duty, all members of the Police Department are strictly
prohibited from drinking any kind of intoxicating liquors.
   (I)   While on duty, no member of the Police Department shall be allowed to
take a chair or other seat on the streets, or in anywise lounge or loaf or
enter into any conversation with any person except on police business. He must
watch the conduct of all unknown or suspicious characters. He must prevent any
obstruction of sidewalks or streets, must disperse all crowds of riotous or
noisy nature or those disturbing the peace and quiet of the city.
   (J)   Each member of the Police Department shall at all times conduct
himself in a quiet, genteel, and orderly manner, and act with prudence,
coolness and judgment, but with a deliberate determination of effecting and
strictly enforcing the laws and ordinances ordained and passed by the City
Council.
   (K)   While off duty, all police officers shall be allowed to retire to
their respective homes or places of rest, but under no circumstances shall a
member of the department be allowed to loiter, loaf, or sit about the streets,
or enter any place of ill fame in full or part uniform, except in the discharge
of his official duty. No police officer shall wear any part of his uniform
except when on duty.
   (L)   No police officer shall publicly discuss the conduct of any other
police officers, but all complaints must be made to the Chief or other officer
in charge.
   (M)   The entire Police Department must report to the Chief at the City Hall
as required, at the hour as may be designated by the Chief, for inspection and
instruction, and the matter of changing the department shall be done at the
time, place, and manner as may be decided by the Chief of Police.
   (N)   Should any member of the Police Department fail or neglect to obey all
rules and regulations herein set forth, he shall be liable to a fine,
suspension, or discharge.
§ 2-1-10 OATH.
   Before entering upon the discharge of their duties as such, all members of
the Police Department shall take the oath as prescribed by law.
State Law Reference:
   Oath of office, S.C. Const. Art. III, Sec. 26
CHAPTER 2: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Article A: Fire Department
2-2-1   Fire Department Established
2-2-2   Tampering with Equipment
2-2-3   False Fire Alarm
2-2-4   Tampering with Alarm System
2-2-5   Driving over Fire Hose
2-2-6   through 2-2-10 Reserved
Article B: Fire Prevention Code
2-2-11   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
2-2-12   Establishment and Duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
2-2-13   Definitions
2-2-14   Storage of Explosives
2-2-15   Storage of Flammable Liquids
2-2-16   Storage of Liquified Petroleum Gases
2-2-17   Routes for Vehicles Transporting Explosives and Blasting Agents
2-2-18   Routes for Vehicles Transporting Hazardous Chemicals or Other
Dangerous Articles
2-2-19   Fire Lanes on Private Property, Devoted to Public Use
2-2-20   Modifications
2-2-21   Appeals
2-2-22   New Materials, Processes or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
2-2-23   Licenses and Permits
2-2-24   Penalties
2-2-25   through 2-2-30 Reserved
Article C: Fireworks
2-2-31   Time Restrictions
2-2-32   Article Not Applicable to Toy Cap Pistols, etc.
2-2-33   Manufacture and Shipment Out of State
2-2-34   Use in Approved Public Displays or Exhibits
2-2-35   Exemption of Certain Carriers
2-2-36   Use, Fire, Shoot, and/or Discharge Fireworks Near Schools, Hospitals,
Churches, Library, Sanatorium or Court
2-2-37   Violations
ARTICLE A: FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 2-2-1 FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established a City Fire Department to be headed by a Fire
Chief who shall be appointed by the City Manager.
   (B)   The City Manager may employ additional members of the department as is
deemed appropriate.
State Law Reference:
   Appointment of chief of fire department, S.C. Code § 5-25-110
   Authority to equip and control fire department, S.C. Code § 5-25-20
§ 2-2-2 TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with the fire reels or
appurtenances thereto, axes, tools, wrenches or any other fire fighting
equipment wherever located belonging to the city.
(1977 Code, § 2-2002)
§ 2-2-3 FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, report or turn in any false
alarm of fire.
(1977 Code, § 2-2003)
State Law Reference:
   Giving false alarms, S.C. Code § 16-17-570
§ 2-2-4 TAMPERING WITH ALARM SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper in any manner with the fire
alarm box, switch, wiring or any other portion of the fire alarm system.
(1977 Code, § 2004)
State Law Reference:
   Interference with fire alarm boxes, S.C. Code § 16-17-570
§ 2-2-5 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(1977 Code, § 2005)
ARTICLE B: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Cross Reference:
   Burning trash, leaves and other refuse prohibited, Sec.
6-2-5
§ 2-2-11 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code recommended by
the American Insurance Association, being particularly the 1976 edition thereof
and the whole thereof, of which Code at least one (1) copy is filed in the
office of the Clerk and the Code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein, and from date on which this ordinance shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
city.
(1977 Code, § 2-2011)
State Law Reference:
   Adoption of Standard Code by reference, S.C. Code § 5-7-280
§ 2-2-12 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Building Department of the city which is hereby established
and which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The inspector in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be
appointed by the City Manager on the basis of examination to determine his
qualifications. His appointment shall continue during good behavior and
satisfactory service, and he shall not be removed from office except for cause.
   (C)   A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made annually and
transmitted to the City Manager; it shall contain all proceedings under this
Code, with statistics as the inspector in charge may wish to include therein;
the inspector in charge shall also recommend any amendments to the Code which,
in his judgment, shall be desirable.
(1977 Code, § 2-2012)
§ 2-2-13 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the Fire Prevention Code,
it shall be held to mean the City of Dillon, South Carolina.
   (B)   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the Fire Prevention
Code, it shall be held to mean the City Attorney.
(1977 Code, § 2-2014)
§ 2-2-14 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   The limits referred to in section 12.5b of the Fire Prevention Code in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby established
as follows: all residentially zoned areas and B-1 Commercial areas.
(1977 Code, § 2-2014)
§ 2-2-15 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   (A)   The limits referred to in section 16.22a of the Fire Prevention Code
in which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is
prohibited are hereby established as follows: bounded on the north by Cleveland
Street; on the south by Calhoun Street; on the east by Sixth Avenue and on the
west by Ninth Avenue.
   (B)   The limits referred to in section 16.61 of the Fire Prevention Code,
in which new bulk plans for flammable or combustible liquids are prohibited,
are hereby established as follows: all residential zones and B-1 Commercial
zones.
(1977 Code, § 2-2015)
§ 2-2-16 STORAGE OF LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   The limits referred to in section 21.6a of the Fire Prevention Code, in
which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are hereby
established as follows: all residential zones and B-1 Commercial zones.
(1977 Code, § 2-2016)
§ 2-2-17 ROUTES FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The routes referred to in section 12.70 of the Fire Prevention Code for
vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents are determined by the
inspector in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
(1977 Code, § 2-2017)
§ 2-2-18 ROUTES FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS OR OTHER
DANGEROUS ARTICLES.
   The routes referred to in section 20.14 of the Fire Prevention Code for
vehicles transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous articles are
determined by the inspector in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
(1977 Code, § 2-2018)
§ 2-2-19 FIRE LANES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY, DEVOTED TO PUBLIC USE.
   All fire lanes must be a minimum of nine (9) feet in width. They should be
located in the area most immediately adjacent to the front of a building and be
marked so as to provide immediate ingress and egress of Fire Department
vehicles.
(1977 Code, § 2-2019)
§ 2-2-20 MODIFICATIONS.
   The inspector in charge of fire prevention shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the Code, provided
that the spirit of the Code shall be observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done. The particulars of the modification when granted or
allowed and the decision of the inspector in charge of fire prevention thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant.
(1977 Code, § 2-2020)
§ 2-2-21 APPEALS.
   Whenever the inspector in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall
disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it
is claimed that the provisions of the Code do not apply or that the true intent
and meaning of the Code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from the decision of the inspector in charge of the Bureau
of Fire Prevention to the Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals within
thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(1977 Code, § 2-2011)
§ 2-2-22 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The City Manager, the Chief of the Fire Department and the inspector in
charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall act as a committee to determine
and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies which shall require permits, and in
addition to those now enumerated in the Code. The inspector in charge of the
Bureau of Fire Prevention shall post the list in a conspicuous place in his
office, and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(1977 Code, § 2-2022)
§ 2-2-23 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits covered in the Fire Prevention Code and required in various
articles are valid for a period of one (1) year from date of issuance. Annual
renewals of permits are the responsibility of the property owner or his agent
or operator.
   (B)   Any property owner or his agent or operator who is required to
purchase an annual business license can be issued a permit which is valid for
an indefinite period.
§ 2-2-24 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by
the Building Board of Adjustments or by a court of competent jurisdiction,
within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
not less than fifteen dollars ($15) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100) or
imprisonment for not less than five (5) days nor more than thirty (30) days or
by both the fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one (1) penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within
a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1977 Code, § 2-2024)
ARTICLE C: FIREWORKS
§ 2-2-31 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person may use, fire, shoot and/or discharge fireworks within
Residential Zoning Districts of the city limits after the hour of 8:00 a.m.
until 10:00 p.m. on any day of the week, Monday through Sunday of each year,
provided that the acts do not create a danger to public safety and/or result in
a nuisance so as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual or
citizen of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, fire, shoot and/or
discharge fireworks within the Residential Zoning Districts of the city limits
between the hours after 10:00 p.m. on any day of the week through 8:00 a.m. on
the following day, with the exception of the following holidays:
      (1)   New Year’s Eve, Christmas Eve and Independence Day Eve.
         (a)   Any person may use, fire, shoot and/or discharge fireworks
within Residential Zoning Districts on the eve of New Year’s Day, Christmas Day
and Independence Day of each year beginning at 8:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. the
following day.
         (b)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to use, fire,
shoot and/or discharge fireworks between the early morning hours after 2:00
a.m. through 8:00 a.m. within Residential Zoning Districts on New Year’s Day,
Christmas Day and/or Independence Day.
      (2)   New Year’s Day, Christmas Day and Independence Day.
         (a)   Any person may use, fire, shoot and/or discharge fireworks on
New Year’s Day, Christmas Day and Independence Day of each year beginning at 8:
00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. the following day.
         (b)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to use, fire,
shoot and/or discharge fireworks between the early morning hours after 2:00
a.m. through 8:00 a.m. the following morning after New Year’s Day, Christmas
Day and/or Independence Day within Residential Zoning Districts.
      (3)   Memorial Day, Labor Day, General Election Day, Veteran’s Day,
Thanksgiving Day.
         (a)   Any person may use, fire, shoot and/or discharge fireworks on
the day of Memorial Day, Labor Day, General Election Day, Veterans Day and
Thanksgiving Day of each year beginning at 8:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. the
following day.
         (b)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to use, fire,
shoot and/or discharge fireworks between the early morning hours after 2:00
a.m. through 8:00 a.m. on the following morning after Memorial Day, Labor Day,
General Election Day, Veterans Day and/or Thanksgiving Day.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 2-2-32 ARTICLE NOT APPLICABLE TO TOY CAP PISTOLS, ETC.
   The provisions of this article shall not include nor prevent the sale,
possession or use of toy cap pistol or toy pistol paper caps which contain not
more than one-fifth (1/5) grain of explosive mixture, fireworks known as
"sparklers" or firecrackers commonly known as "Chinese firecrackers", which are
defined as follows: being not over one-quarter (1/4) inch outside diameter, not
over two (2) inches long and containing not over four (4) grains of explosive
composition. The sale, use and possession of any toy pistol, toy pistol paper
caps, sparklers and Chinese firecrackers, as above defined, shall be permitted
at all times.
(1977 Code, § 2-2032)
§ 2-2-33 MANUFACTURE AND SHIPMENT OUT OF STATE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the manufacture in
this city of fireworks or the storing, selling or offering for sale for
shipment out of the state of fireworks, the use of which is made unlawful in
this city.
(1977 Code, § 2-2033)
§ 2-2-34 USE IN APPROVED PUBLIC DISPLAYS OR EXHIBITS.
   It shall be lawful for any person to use fireworks in public displays or
exhibits when the person desiring to give them shall have first obtained
written approval therefore from the City Council. The City Council may, in its
absolute discretion, grant or refuse to grant the permission so applied for or
may grant it subject to restrictions and limitations as it may, in its absolute
discretion, deem to be in the interest of public safety in connection with the
display or exhibit.
(1977 Code, § 2-2034)
State Law Reference:
   Permit from city required to hold public display, S.C. Code § 23-35-60
§ 2-2-35 EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN CARRIERS.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed as prohibiting the use of signals
necessary for the safe operation of railroads, buses, trucks or boats, nor
shall the provisions of this article apply to any common carrier, while acting
as such, lawfully transporting or having custody of fireworks in interstate
commerce or for delivery within the state for lawful use.
(1977 Code, § 2-2035)
§ 2-2-36 USE, FIRE, SHOOT AND/OR DISCHARGE FIREWORKS NEAR SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS,
CHURCHES, LIBRARY, SANATORIUM OR COURT.
   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to use, fire, shoot and/
or discharge fireworks at anytime such as to create excessive loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises to any school, institution of learning, library,
sanatorium, hospital or court, while it is in session, or to any church during
church services, which interferes with the work or worship in the place or
institution; provided that signs must be displayed indicating that it is a
school, hospital, church, library, sanatorium or court.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 2-2-37 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars
($500) or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each
day of violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 10-8-2012)
CHAPTER 3: WRECKER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
Section
Article A
2-3-1   Compliance Required
2-3-2   Removal from Rotation List
2-3-3   Indemnification
2-3-4   Police Regulations
2-3-5   Right of Inspection
Article B: Requirements
2-3-6   Financial Interest of Police Officer Prohibited
2-3-7   Eligibility for City of Dillon Wrecker Rotation List
2-3-8   Availability
2-3-9   Storage Area
2-3-10   Equipment
2-3-11   Signs
2-3-12   Liability Insurance
2-3-13   Charges
Article C: Procedures
2-3-14   Administration of List
2-3-15   Response only upon Police Request
2-3-16   Owner of Vehicle to Choose Service
2-3-17   Time Limit for Service Requested by Owner
2-3-18   Recommendation by Police Officer Prohibited
2-3-19   Unavailability
2-3-20   Response Time: Notification of Next Service
2-3-21   When Several Vehicles are Involved in an Accident
2-3-22   Assistance from Other Wrecker Services
2-3-23   Conduct of Wrecker Operators
2-3-24   Wrecker Operator to Secure Personal Property
2-3-25   Complaints Involving the Rotation List
ARTICLE A
§ 2-3-1 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The following regulations in this chapter shall be adhered to by all wrecker
services utilized by the City of Dillon.
§ 2-3-2 REMOVAL FROM ROTATION LIST.
   Failure of any wrecker service to comply with the regulations contained
herein may result in their removal from the City of Dillon's wrecker rotation
list by the Business License Administrator.
§ 2-3-3 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The wrecker company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City of
Dillon, it's employees, agents and assigns from suit, and claims or action of
every nature and description brought for, or on account of or sustained by any
person or persons as a result of any act or acts of the wrecker company, it's
employees, agents or assigns in the performance of services under the terms of
this agreement.
§ 2-3-4 POLICE REGULATIONS.
   No wrecker shall be driven or operated in a manner as to interfere with the
duties of police officers investigating accidents. Directions of police shall
be obeyed at all times and any licensed wrecker will promptly furnish service
when requested to do so by the police in order to clear traffic and promote
public safety.
§ 2-3-5 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The City of Dillon Police Chief or his designee shall have the right, at any
time to enter into or upon, any wrecker or tow-in lot participating in the
rotation program, for the purpose of inspecting the wrecker, it's equipment and
any vehicle storage areas, to ensure public safety and adherence to the
provisions of this ordinance.
ARTICLE B: REQUIREMENTS
§ 2-3-6 FINANCIAL INTEREST OF POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   No City of Dillon police officer shall hold any financial interest or any
form of ownership interest in any wrecker service.
§ 2-3-7 ELIGIBILITY FOR CITY OF DILLON WRECKER ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   Any wrecker service which possesses a valid City of Dillon business
license located within three (3) miles from the city limits of Dillon is
eligible to be place on the wrecker rotation list. If a wrecker fails to
respond to calls for service within fifteen (15) minutes from the time it is
notified on three (3) separate occasions within a twelve (12) month time
period, the wrecker service will be automatically removed from the wrecker
rotation list regardless if the wrecker is located within three (3) miles from
the city and possesses a valid City of Dillon business license.
   (B)   A city business license is not required of a wrecker service at the
request of the owner or driver of a wrecked or disabled vehicle when there is
nothing to indicate that the service was anything other than an isolated,
incidental or casual one. Repeated services by a wrecker shall be considered as
engaging in business and shall be required to obtain a business license.
§ 2-3-8 AVAILABILITY.
   Wrecker services shall be available to the Police Department and the public
on a twenty-four (24) hour, seven (7) day a week basis.
§ 2-3-9 STORAGE AREA.
   Wrecker service shall maintain a safe and secured storage area for all
vehicles towed. This may be a locked building or a fenced in area where the
stored vehicle and other property shall not be accessible to the public.
§ 2-3-10 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All wreckers shall be equipped with legally authorized lighting and
other safety equipment to protect the motoring public. Such equipment shall be
maintained in good working order.
   (B)   Equipment such as brooms, shovels, etc., must be carried on all
wreckers in order to remove glass and other debris from the highway. It is the
responsibility of the wrecker service to clean the highway prior to leaving the
scene of any accident.
   (C)   The wrecker service must have equipment of sufficient size to handle
disabled vehicles of the type commonly used on South Carolina highways as
passenger cars, pick-up trucks, etc. Any additional equipment specified by the
South Carolina Highway Patrol for wrecker services must also be maintained by
those wrecker services on the City of Dillon wrecker rotation list.
§ 2-3-11 SIGNS.
   Each wrecker service on the rotation list must place a sign on the door of
each of its wreckers indicating the name, address and phone number of the
service. This sign shall be painted on the door of the wrecker or otherwise
permanently affixed to the door. The letters of the sign must be no less than
two (2) inches high. If the wrecker is registered in a name other than that of
the wrecker service, the owner's name must also appear on the door in letters
no less than one (1) inch high. All lettering on wreckers shall be plainly
visible and shall be in a color which contrasts to that of the wrecker.
§ 2-3-12 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any wrecker service on the rotation list shall carry liability
insurance on its wreckers and its premises in an amount not less than three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) for a standard wrecker, seven hundred and
fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) for a heavy duty wrecker and must submit
evidence of such insurance to the City Business License Administrator.
   (B)   Any wrecker service on the rotation list shall carry garage keepers
liability insurance covering customer's vehicles in an amount not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) and must submit evidence of such insurance
to the City Business License Administrator.
§ 2-3-13 CHARGES.
   Charges for work performed must be reasonable.
ARTICLE C: PROCEDURES
§ 2-3-14 ADMINISTRATION OF LIST.
   The wrecker rotation list shall be administered fairly and in a manner
designed to ensure that all wrecker services on the list have an equal
opportunity to the towing business as generated by the City of Dillon Business
License Administrator and the Dillon County E-911 dispatcher’s office.
§ 2-3-15 RESPONSE ONLY UPON POLICE REQUEST.
   Wreckers shall only respond upon request of the proper police authority.
Response under any other condition may result in removal from the wrecker
rotation list.
§ 2-3-16 OWNER OF VEHICLE TO CHOOSE SERVICE.
   Unless the owner or driver of a vehicle is incapacitated or unavailable, the
owner or driver of a wreck or disabled vehicle shall have the right to the
wrecker service of his or her choice. Before calling any wrecker service to tow
a wrecked or disabled vehicle, the investigating officer on the scene, if
practical, shall determine the owner's or driver's preference of wrecker
services, and the wrecker service designated by the owner shall be called. A
"City of Dillon Police Department Wrecker Service Request" form will be
completed by the investigating officer on the scene, whenever the normal
wrecker rotation is not followed as a result of an owner’s request. Officers
will not recommend any wrecker service and will not carry any information
concerning wrecker companies in their assigned police vehicles. Any information
concerning a particular wrecker service will be provided only by the driver or
owner of the vehicle to be towed who is solely responsible for requesting such
service.
§ 2-3-17 TIME LIMIT FOR SERVICE REQUESTED BY OWNER.
   Any wrecker service which is not on the rotation list and that is requested
to respond to the scene of an accident by the owner or operator of a disabled
or wrecked vehicle may respond when requested, so long as the wrecker responds
within fifteen (15) minutes from the time it is notified. A city business
license is not required of a wrecker service when there is nothing to indicate
that the service was anything other than an isolated, incidental or casual one.
Repeated services by a wrecker shall be considered as engaging in business and
shall be required to obtain a business license.
§ 2-3-18 RECOMMENDATION BY POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   In no event shall any Dillon police officer recommend any wrecker service to
the owner of a wrecked or disabled vehicle, nor shall any Dillon police officer
ever recommend the services of any particular wrecker service in the
performance of his duties.
§ 2-3-19 UNAVAILABILITY.
   When a wrecker service or wrecker driver is unable to answer a call, police
shall be promptly notified of that fact and the reason for the unavailability.
§ 2-3-20 RESPONSE TIME: NOTIFICATION OF NEXT SERVICE.
   If a wrecker does not respond within fifteen (15) minutes, the dispatcher
shall notify the next wrecker service on the list which shall not lose its
place in the rotation. Any wrecker failing to respond within this time period
on three (3) separate occasions within a twelve (12) month time period, will
automatically be removed from the rotation list.
§ 2-3-21 WHEN SEVERAL VEHICLES ARE INVOLVED IN AN ACCIDENT.
   When two (2) or more vehicles are involved in an accident and towing
services are required, the police officer on the scene will assign each wrecker
a specific vehicle to be towed unless the owner or driver of such vehicle has a
preference for a particular wrecker service.
§ 2-3-22 ASSISTANCE FROM OTHER WRECKER SERVICES.
   A wrecker service may secure assistance from other wrecker services when
necessary to do the job. Only one (1) bill is to be submitted to the owner or
operator of the towed vehicle for the work performed.
§ 2-3-23 CONDUCT OF WRECKER OPERATORS.
   Wrecker operators must conduct themselves in a proper manner at all accident
scenes and when dealing with the public.
§ 2-3-24 WRECKER OPERATOR TO SECURE PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Each wrecker service shall be responsible for securing personal property in
a vehicle which is to be towed, in a reasonable and prudent manner. In no event
shall a wrecker service be responsible for personal items which do not come
into possession of the wrecker services.
§ 2-3-25 COMPLAINTS INVOLVING THE ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   Any complaints from wrecker services regarding the operation of the
City of Dillon rotation list must be submitted in writing and received by the
Business License Administrator within thirty (30) days of the incident.
   (B)   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
the earliest date permitted by law.
TITLE 3: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
1.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
2.   DILLON TREE ORDINANCE
   
3.   STORMWATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 1: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
3-1-1   Duties of the Service Department Director
3-1-2   Construction of Sidewalks
3-1-3   Breaking or Destroying Curbing; Constructing Entrances into Property
3-1-4   Excavations Generally
3-1-5   Lights on Excavations and Obstructions Required
3-1-6   Removal of Lights from Excavations and Obstructions Prohibited
3-1-7   Trimming Shade Trees (Repealed by Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-2003)
3-1-8   Parades
3-1-9   Duty of Occupants to Keep Adjacent Sidewalks Free from Obstruction
3-1-10   Obstructions on Streets
3-1-11   Stands and Boxes on Streets and Sidewalks
3-1-12   Awnings and Wooden Sheds
3-1-13   Throwing, Sweeping, or Burning Trash on Sidewalks or Streets
3-1-14   Riding or Driving on Sidewalks
3-1-15   Throwing Tacks and Nails on Streets
3-1-16   Doors and Gates Swinging Outward over Sidewalks
3-1-17   Damaging Parkways
3-1-18   Allowing Water from Roof to Run on Sidewalks
3-1-19   Breaking or Removing Street Lights
3-1-20   Street Names
3-1-21   Trees Planted Along Streets (Repealed by Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-2003)
§ 3-1-1 DUTIES OF THE SERVICE DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR.
   The Service Department Director shall be responsible for the maintenance and
cleaning of all streets and public grounds. The Director, in addition to the
foregoing, shall keep the openings of the public drains and the gutters along
the sidewalks clean and free from obstructions.
Cross Reference:
   Collection of garbage, Sec.
6-2-1 et seq.
§ 3-1-2 CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any person of any brick,
wood, or other material, without a written permit signed by the City Manager or
his designate. The construction of the sidewalk shall then be under the
supervision of the Director of the Service Department and shall be carried out
according to his instructions. The failure to obtain a permit before beginning
a sidewalk shall constitute a misdemeanor.
§ 3-1-3 BREAKING OR DESTROYING CURBING; CONSTRUCTING ENTRANCES INTO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or destroy the curbing of any
street of the city, or to otherwise deface the curb, or to construct any
entrance into property on any of the paved streets of the city, unless the
person shall have first obtained a permit so to do from the City Manager or his
designate.
§ 3-1-4 EXCAVATIONS GENERALLY.
   Any person wishing to cut, dig, or ditch across or in any street or sidewalk
or alleyway, for any purpose, shall first obtain the written permission of the
City Manager or his designate and then shall leave the area in good and
passable condition. Failure to obtain permission before so digging or ditching
in or across any sidewalk, street, or alley or failure to leave the digging or
cutting in a passable condition shall constitute a violation of this section.
§ 3-1-5 LIGHTS ON EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any trench, ditch or excavation
in any street, sidewalk or public place of the city to remain open between
sunset and sunrise or to allow any obstruction, building material, scaffold,
impediment or obstacle to remain in or upon any street, sidewalk or public
place in the city between sunset and sunrise, unless the obstruction, building
material, scaffold, impediment, obstacle, trench, ditch or excavation has
sufficient number of lights properly displayed around it as danger signals to
prevent accidents to persons or property.
(1977 Code, § 3-1005)
§ 3-1-6 REMOVAL OF LIGHTS FROM EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or extinguish any light which
may be placed as a signal at night to warn persons of danger from ditches,
trenches, excavations, building materials, scaffolds, impediments or obstacles
of any description whatever, within the corporate limits of the city.
(1977 Code, § 3-1006)
§ 3-1-7 TRIMMING SHADE TREES.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-
2003.)
§ 3-1-8 PARADES.
   (A)   No parade, excepting the forces of the Unites States Army or Navy, the
military forces of this state, and the forces of the Police and Fire
Departments, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in
accordance with a permit issued by the City Manager or his designate.
   (B)   In deciding whether to issue a permit under this section, the City
Manager or his designate shall consider:
      (1)   The number of persons to participate;
      (2)   The anticipated traffic conditions at the time and date proposed
for the activity;
      (3)   The schedule of other similar activities for which permits may have
been issued;
      (4)   The adequacy of adult supervision for any minor scheduled to
participate;
      (5)   The availability of city personnel whose presence on duty may be
required by the activity and by the necessity to protect the general public;
and
      (6)   The adequacy of public facilities in the location proposed for the
activity to accommodate the proposed activity and the normal public use of
public facilities in the proposed location.
§ 3-1-9 DUTY OF OCCUPANTS TO KEEP ADJACENT SIDEWALKS FREE FROM OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Every occupant of a lot on any street within the jurisdiction of the
city limits shall keep the sidewalk clear and free from obstruction as far as
the lot extends (with the exception of sidewalk sales permitted within the
designated Dillon Downtown Commercial Historic Overlay District in accordance
with §
5-4-70(A)(7)). The gutter shall remain open and free from obstruction as far as
the lot extends.
   (B)   If the space is not so kept clear and free and open from obstruction
of any kind (with the exception of sidewalk sales permitted within the
designated Dillon Downtown Commercial Historic Overlay District in accordance
with §
5-4-70(A)(7) for a period of twelve (12) hours after notice from the Police
Department, the occupant shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 3-1009) (Am. Ord. 18-03, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 3-1-10 OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS.
   No brick, stone, wood or other substance obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the streets
or alleys of the city. No person shall place on or in any of the streets,
sidewalks or alleys of the city any box, crates, casks or barrels of any
description or any other obstruction of any kind. However, any person erecting
a building may, with the permission of the City Manager or his designate, place
building materials for immediate use on the streets in a way as not to
interfere with the usual traffic.
(1977 Code, § 3-1010)
§ 3-1-11 STANDS AND BOXES ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or have placed any stands,
boxes or other structures upon the streets and sidewalks of the city (with the
exception of sidewalk sales permitted within the designated Dillon Downtown
Commercial Historic Overlay District in accordance with §
5-4-70(A)(7).
(1977 Code, § 3-1011) (Ord. 16-13, passed 11-14-2016; Am. Ord. 18-03, passed 5-
14-2018)
§ 3-1-12 AWNINGS AND WOODEN SHEDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or repair over any sidewalk or
street any wooden shed or awning or any wooden shed for the support of an
awning, or erect upon any street or sidewalk any post for the support of any
awning. If any person shall violate this section, then each day that the above
forbidden obstruction shall remain, after notice, shall constitute a separate
violation of this section; provided, that this section shall not be construed
to prevent the erection over the sidewalk of cloth awnings, supported upon
metallic frames, firmly suspended from the building; provided further, that the
City Manager shall have the power to condemn and order removed any wooden
awnings now existing when they shall become dangerous or unsightly or in any
way detrimental to the public health or public safety of life and limb.
§ 3-1-13 THROWING, SWEEPING, OR BURNING TRASH ON SIDEWALKS OR STREETS.
   No paper, straw, lemon peel, banana peel, watermelon rind, or any trash of
any kind shall be thrown or swept upon any sidewalk or street of the city, nor
shall any trash, refuse or rubbish be burnt thereon. All trash shall be placed
in barrels and cans and left convenient for collection by city trucks.
( 1977 Code, § 3-1013)
Cross Reference:
   Collection of garbage, Sec.
6-2-1 et seq.
   Litter, Sec.
6-3-3 et seq.
§ 3-1-14 RIDING OR DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall lead or drive any horse or other animal, or drive any
automobile on any sidewalk of the city, except at an established crossing, nor
ride any bicycle thereon. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
preventing the use of the sidewalk for baby carriages, wheelchairs or
children's tricycles. (1977 Code, § 3-1015)
Cross Reference:
   Motor vehicles and traffic, Sec.
8-1-1 et seq.
§ 3-1-15 THROWING TACKS AND NAILS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any tacks, nails, glass bottles
or any other substances whatsoever upon the streets of the city that would or
tend to injure, cut or mutilate any property of another, whether tires,
livestock or other things.
(1977 Code, § 3-1016)
§ 3-1-16 DOORS AND GATES SWINGING OUTWARD OVER SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any premises
adjacent to sidewalks to allow any doors or gates to swing outward over the
sidewalk so as to obstruct the free passage thereon.
(1977 Code, § 3-1017)
§ 3-1-17 DAMAGING PARKWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon, walk, ride, cross or
allow any horse or other animal, automobile or other vehicle to pass over,
stand upon or otherwise trespass on any of the parkways in the city, or to
pick, damage or injure any flowers, shrubbery or grass growing on the parkways.
For the purpose of this section, the word "parkway" shall be taken to mean all
that portion of a street lying between the street curbing at the edge of the
roadway and the paved portion of the sidewalk.
(1977 Code, § 3-1018)
§ 3-1-18 ALLOWING WATER FROM ROOF TO RUN ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct, erect or maintain a
house or building of any description in the city in a manner that rain water
may flow from the roof, eaves, cornices, gutters or other part thereof, down
upon any sidewalk so as to cause holes, depressions, unevenness, gullies or
other defects or damage to the sidewalk.
(1977 Code, § 3-1019)
§ 3-1-19 BREAKING OR REMOVING STREET LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break any lamp or electric light or
to remove any electric light bulb from any of the street lights within the
corporate limits of the city.
(1977 Code, § 3-1021)
§ 3-1-20 STREET NAMES.
   No person shall name any street or change the name of any street except in
accordance with the procedure outlined in the city subdivision regulations for
naming or renaming streets.
Cross Reference:
   Street names, §
5-7-1 et seq.
§ 3-1-21 TREES PLANTED ALONG STREETS.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: This section was repealed by Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-
2003.)
CHAPTER 2: DILLON TREE ORDINANCE
Section
3-2-1   Title
3-2-2   Purpose
3-2-3   Exceptions
3-2-4   Objectives
3-2-5   Benefits of Trees
3-2-6   Applicability
3-2-7   Administration
3-2-8   Definitions
3-2-9   Tree Committee
3-2-10   Tree City USA
3-2-11   Tree Inventory
3-2-12   Annual Work Plan
3-2-13   Public Tree Maintenance Standards
3-2-14   Damage to Public Trees
3-2-15   Enforcement
3-2-16   Violations
3-2-17   Emergencies
3-2-18   Appeals
§ 3-2-1 TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Dillon Tree
Ordinance."
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-2 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this ordinance is to establish policies, regulations, and
standards for the management of public trees within the city limits, and to
regulate the protection and removal of Heritage Trees. Public tree management
shall include, but not be limited to, tree establishment, maintenance,
protection, and removal.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-3 EXCEPTIONS.
   All major subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions in accordance
with the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations, § 5-5-11, including but
not limited to subdivisions of eleven (11) or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new road or extension of the local government
facilities or the creation of any public improvements are exempt from the
requirements of the Dillon Tree Ordinance and shall be subject to the
requirements of the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-4 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of public tree management shall be to maximize the functional
benefits of trees while minimizing the costs of management. The objectives of
this ordinance shall be as listed below.
   (A)   Maintain the city’s tree canopy cover at or above its current level.
   (B)   Maintain and improve community character.
   (C)   Enhance the aesthetic appearance of the landscape.
   (D)   Provide direction and support to tree management.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-5 BENEFITS OF TREES.
   Trees provide many environmental, social, and economic benefits that
include, but are not limited to, the following.
   (A)   Trees produce oxygen and absorb carbon dioxide, thereby reducing air
pollution and improving air quality.
   (B)   Trees filter out dust, particulate matter, and airborne pollutants,
thereby improving air quality.
   (C)   Trees intercept precipitation, thereby reducing storm water runoff and
improving water quality.
   (D)   Tree roots hold the soil, thereby reducing soil erosion and
sedimentation and improving water quality.
   (E)   Trees provide shade and cooling and provide windbreaks, thereby
reducing energy usage
and air conditioning and heating costs.
   (F)   Trees provide wildlife food and habitat.
   (G)   Trees buffer different land uses to eliminate or minimize nuisances
such as dust, litter, noise, glare, signs, and unsightly buildings or parking
areas.
   (H)   Trees improve public health by reducing stress, encouraging exercise,
calming traffic, decreasing illness recovery times, reducing crime and domestic
violence, and improving concentration.
   (I)   Trees attract residents, visitors, commerce and industry to the city
and increase the value and marketability of property.
   (J)   Trees beautify the city and protect and enhance the quality of life.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-6 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all public trees, as
described herein. Some provisions of this ordinance shall apply to trees
located on private property under specific and limited circumstances and to
trees designated as Heritage Trees, as described herein.
6.1   Public Trees.
      Public trees shall include all trees growing on city owned property
within the street rights-of-way, in parks, in cemeteries, around public
facilities, and on all other city maintained properties within the city limits.
6.2   Heritage Trees.
      All trees growing on public or private property within the city limits,
except for those growing on single-family residential property, that meet one
(1) or more of the following criteria shall be designated as Heritage Trees.
      (A)   Has a diameter greater than twenty-four (24) inches.
      (B)   Is of an historic or landmark character, associated with a place,
individual, or event important to the city or neighborhood's history, or
located such that it is a widely known and appreciated tree within the city.
      (C)   Is a rare or unusual species, or an unusually large size for the
species.
6.3   Determination of Heritage Tree Status.
      The Tree Committee shall make the final decision as to whether or not a
tree shall be considered a Heritage Tree.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-7 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Street Department Manager or his/her designee shall be responsible for
the administration of all provisions of this ordinance and for public tree
management. The Code Enforcement Department shall be responsible for the
enforcement of all provisions of this ordinance. The City Manager and other
departments within the City of Dillon shall support the Street Department and
the Code Enforcement Department in all tree management activities.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-8 DEFINITIONS.
   As used within this ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth in this section. The word "shall" as used in this ordinance is
mandatory and not merely directory.
   CERTIFIED ARBORIST. An individual who has passed the International Society
of Arboriculture's Certified Arborist examination, is designated as a Certified
Arborist by said organization, and maintains such designation through attending
at least thirty (30) hours of qualifying continuing education within each
three-year period certification period.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. A more or less circular area on the ground equivalent to
the area within the tree's dripline, or a circle around the trunk with a radius
equivalent to one and one-half (1-1/2) feet for every one (1) inch in dbh,
whichever is greater.
   CROWN. The upper portion of a tree that contains the large scaffold limbs,
branches, twigs, and leaves.
   DBH. Diameter of the tree trunk at breast height, four and one-half (4-1/2)
feet above the ground.
   DRIPLINE. A vertical line that extends down at the point of the greatest
extent of the tree's branches.
   ESTABLISHMENT. The selection, placement, planting, and maintenance of new
trees in the landscape. The minimum period of time required for establishing
trees is generally considered to be three (3) years.
   HAZARD TREE. A hazard tree is one that is at risk for failure, either whole
or in part, with the part large enough to cause damage, and there exists within
the falling distance of the tree or tree part a target, such as people,
buildings, vehicles, or hardscape.
   HERITAGE TREE. All trees growing on public or private property within the
city limits, except for those growing on single-family residential property,
that have a diameter greater than twenty-four (24) inches, have an historic or
landmark character, are associated with a place, individual, or event important
to the city or neighborhood's history, are a rare or unusual species, are of an
unusually large size for the species, or are located such that they are widely
known and appreciated tree within the city.
   MAINTENANCE ROUTINE. Periodic, or occasional activities directed at
maintaining or improving a tree's health and condition. Maintenance activities
include but are not limited to mulching, pruning, irrigation, fertilization,
pest control, cabling and bracing, and lightning protection system
installation.
   PROTECTION. The active or passive protection of a tree's roots, trunk, and
crown for the purpose of avoiding damage to these living structures and
maintaining tree health and structural integrity.
   PRUNING. The deliberate removal of tree branches for a specific purpose,
i.e. young tree training, deadwood removal, utility line, traffic, or
pedestrian clearance, or correcting structural defects.
   REMOVAL. The cutting of a tree at ground line to remove the tree's trunk and
crown. The tree stump and roots may or may not be removed along with the trunk
and crown.
   ROOTS. The below ground portion of a tree that includes large, woody support
roots and small, non-woody, fibrous "feeder" roots. Roots are generally located
within the top eighteen (18) inches of soil and extend out from the trunk two
(2) to three (3) times the width of the crown.
   TOPPING. The improper removal of tree limbs with cuts made between nodes;
also known as "tipping," "heading," and "shearing."
   TREE. A woody perennial plant, generally with a single trunk but sometimes
with multiple trunks, with the potential to attain a mature size of at least
three (3) inches in trunk diameter at four and one-half (4-1/2) feet above the
ground and a height of at least fifteen (15) feet.
   TRUNK. The main woody stem of a tree that supports the crown and functions
in the transport of water, nutrients, and carbohydrates from the crown to the
roots and the roots to the crown.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-9 TREE COMMITTEE.
9.1   Name.
      A Tree Board shall be created and shall be known as the "Dillon Tree
Committee".
9.2   Members.
      The Tree Committee shall have seven (7) members, citizens and residents
of the city, that shall be appointed by the Mayor and City Council and approved
by the Mayor and City Council. One (1) advisory, non-voting member shall be
appointed in addition to the seven (7) members. Tree Committee members shall be
chosen to be geographically representative of the community and shall include a
professional forester or arborist as well as at-large members. An unlimited
number of ex-officio members shall be invited by the Tree Committee to serve in
a non-voting capacity.
9.3   Quorum.
      A quorum shall consist of four (4) voting members. The Tree Committee
shall take no action in the absence of a quorum.
9.4   Compensation.
      Tree Committee members shall serve without compensation. The city, upon
receipt of appropriate receipts and documentation, shall reimburse reasonable
expenses incurred by members and approved by the Committee.
9.5   Term of Office.
      The term of office for Tree Committee members shall be four (4) years.
Members may serve no more than two (2) terms. For the initial Committee, the
Mayor and City Council shall appoint three (3) members to four (4) year terms,
two (2) members to three (3) year terms, and two (2) members to two (2) year
terms.
9.6   Officers, Regulations, and Proceedings.
      The Tree Committee shall elect a Chairman, secretary, and treasurer. The
Tree Committee shall make its own rules and regulations above and beyond those
listed herein, shall keep minutes of its meetings, shall keep records of its
activities through correspondence, photographs, articles, and written
summaries, and shall keep accurate and current financial records.
      9.6.1   Chairman.
         The Chairman shall be elected by members of the Tree Committee and
shall serve a term of one (1) year. The Chairman may serve no more than four
(4) consecutive years. The Chairman shall be responsible for setting each
meeting’s agenda and for conducting the meetings. In the absence of the
Chairman, the treasurer shall carry out the responsibilities of Chairman.
      9.6.2   Secretary.
         The secretary shall be elected by the members of the Tree Committee
and shall serve a term of one (1) year. The secretary may serve no more than
four (4) consecutive years. The secretary shall be responsible for keeping
records of the proceeding and events of the Tree Committee, publicizing
meetings in the local newspaper, distributing meeting announcements to members,
and recording the minutes of each meeting. In the absence of the Chairman and
the treasurer, the secretary or a member he/she designates shall carry out the
responsibilities of Chairman.
      9.6.3   Treasurer.
         The treasurer shall be elected by the members of the Tree Committee
and shall serve a term of one (1) year. The treasurer may serve a total of (4)
years. The treasurer shall be responsible for administering the Tree Committee
budget, maintaining records of income and expenditures, maintaining records of
the amount and value of in-kind donations and volunteer hours, and preparing an
annual budget and financial report. The treasurer shall carry out the
responsibilities of the Chairman in his/her absence.
9.7   Responsibilities Generally.
      The responsibilities of the Tree Committee shall include, but not be
limited to, the following.
      (A)   Advise the city in all tree-related matters.
      (B)   Serve as a source of information about proper tree maintenance
techniques and community tree management policies.
      (C)   Make recommendations for public tree establishment, maintenance,
protection, and removal.
      (D)   Provide input to the Street Department for the development of
annual work plans and long range planning.
      (E)   Develop and maintain a list of trees recommended and not
recommended for planting in Dillon.
      (F)   Investigate and apply for donations and grant funding from public
and private sources for community forestry related projects.
      (G)   Provide regular community tree care educational programs and
information about the value of trees and proper tree maintenance to city staff
and citizens.
      (H)   Review the Tree Ordinance and provide recommendations for changes
to the Planning and Zoning Board and in turn to the Mayor and City Council at
least every two (2) years.
      (I)   Promote and support the Tree City USA program.
      (J)   Prepare an annual report to the City Council that includes the past
year's accomplishments, financial report, next year's budget, and planned
activities.
9.8   Meetings.
      The Tree Committee shall meet monthly. Special meetings may be held in
addition to the regular monthly meetings. At least seven (7) days public notice
shall be given in the local newspaper prior to each regularly scheduled or
special meeting. Members absent for more than three (3) consecutive meetings or
more than one-third (1/3) of the regularly scheduled meetings per year may be
replaced by recommendation of the Tree Committee to the Mayor and City Council.
The secretary shall advise the Mayor and City Council of any members
recommended to be replaced or any member that has resigned and ask the Mayor
and City Council to appoint a new member to fill the un-expired term of the
vacating member.
   9.9   Sub-committees.
      The Tree Committee may, at its discretion, create sub-committees to
assist in conducting its business. The members of these committees may or may
not be members of the Tree Committee.
   9.10   Donations.
      The Tree Committee shall have the authority to accept public funds from
tax revenues, fines, fees, grants, or bequests, materials, or donations of cash
or in-kind services that are intended to provide for the general operations of
the Committee and for the execution and implementation of tree-related
activities or projects. These funds shall be placed in a separate Tree
Committee account.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-10 TREE CITY USA.
   The City of Dillon shall maintain Tree City USA status and submit an
application for this designation each year by December 15th to the South
Carolina Forestry Commission and the National Arbor Day Foundation. To maintain
eligibility for this program, the city shall meet the following criteria.
   (A)   Hold an annual Arbor Day Celebration on or around Arbor Day in South
Carolina, the 1st Friday in December. An Arbor Day Proclamation shall be
created and included as part of the celebration.
   (B)   Have a tree ordinance. The tree ordinance shall be reviewed, and
revised if necessary, at least once every two (2) years.
   (C)   Have an active Tree Committee, appointed by the Mayor and Council,
responsible for advising the city on tree-related matters.
   (D)   Spend at least two dollars ($2) per capita on public tree management,
including planning, education, tree establishment, maintenance, protection, and
removal, and any and all other maintenance or management activities.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-11 TREE INVENTORY.
   The city shall maintain a current inventory of all public trees. The
inventory data gathered and recorded for each tree shall include, at a minimum,
the following information.
   (A)   Location (address or latitude/longitude coordinates).
   (B)   Tree species.
   (C)   DBH.
   (D)   Condition.
   (E)   Maintenance needs.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-12 ANNUAL WORK PLAN.
   The Street Department shall develop an annual work plan for the management
of public trees utilizing the tree inventory information and input from the
Tree Committee. The work plan shall contain the following plans and schedules.
   (A)   Tree planting.
   (B)   New tree maintenance including mulching, irrigation, and young tree
training pruning.
   (C)   Tree pruning.
   (D)   Tree mulching.
   (E)   Tree removal.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-13 PUBLIC TREE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   The city shall have the right and responsibility to establish, maintain,
protect, and remove trees located on public property. Public tree maintenance
standards shall be developed and made a part of this ordinance and shall
include, at a minimum, standards for tree establishment, maintenance (to
include pruning, mulching, fertilization, irrigation, and pest control),
protection, and removal. These standards shall incorporate the current version
of the following professional standards from the American National Standards
Institute.
   (A)   ANSI Z60.1 American National Standard for Nursery Stock.
   (B)   ANSI Z133.1 American National Standard for Arboricultural Operations -
Pruning, Repairing, Maintaining, and Removing Trees, and Cutting Brush - Safety
Requirements.
   (C)   ANSI A300 American National Standard for Tree Care Operations - Trees,
Brush, and Other Woody Plant Maintenance - Standard Practices (Pruning).
   (D)   ANSI A300 Part 2 - American National Standard for Tree Care Operations
- Trees, Brush,
and Other Woody Plant Maintenance - Standard Practices (Fertilization).
   (E)   ANSI A300 Part 3 - American National Standard for Tree Care Operations
- Trees, Brush, and Other Woody Plant Maintenance - Standard Practices (Support
Systems & Cabling, Bracing, and Guying).
   (F)   ANSI A300 Part 4 - American National Standard for Tree Care Operations
- Trees, Brush, and Other Woody Plant Maintenance - Standard Practices
(Lightning Protection Systems).
13.1   Establishment.
      13.1.1   Tree Species List.
         The city shall keep a current list of trees recommended for planting
on public property and not recommended for planting. The list shall be
developed and maintained by the Tree Committee. The list shall include, at a
minimum, the following information.
         (A)   Species common name.
         (B)   Latin name.
         (C)   Mature height category.
         (D)   Recommended or not recommended.
         Mature height categories shall be as listed below.
         (A)   Small - less than twenty-five (25) feet in height at maturity.
         (B)   Medium - less than forty (40) feet in height at maturity.
         (C)   Large - at least forty (40) feet and up to one hundred (100)
feet or more in height at maturity.
      13.1.2   Tree Quality.
         Trees planted on city property shall be good quality and have the
following characteristics.
         (A)   Have healthy roots, trunk, and crown.
         (B)   Be free from stem encircling and stem girdling roots.
         (C)   Have a form characteristic of the species, but otherwise with a
straight trunk and without co-dominant stems and included bark.
         (D)   Have well-spaced branches.
         (E)   Be free from insects, diseases, and mechanical injuries.
      13.1.3   Tree Placement.
         Trees shall be planted in locations that meet the following criteria.
         (A)   At least thirty (30) feet from street intersections.
         (B)   At least twenty-five (25) feet from stop signs and light poles.
         (C)   At least fifteen (15) feet from driveways, utility poles, fire
hydrants, and mail boxes.
         (D)   At least two and one-half (2-1/2) feet from the curb and
sidewalks.
         (E)   Only small trees shall be planted beneath or within twenty (20)
feet of overhead utility lines.
         (F)   Small trees shall be planted no closer than ten (10) feet to a
building.
         (G)   No medium tree shall be planted closer than twenty (20) feet to
overhead electrical power lines or twenty (20) feet to a building.
            No large tree shall be planted closer than thirty (30) feet to
overhead electrical power lines or thirty (30) feet to a building.
         The Tree Committee may approve other tree placement designs in public
spaces that do not meet the above criteria, such as a planned streetscape
design.
      13.1.4   Spacing Between Trees.
         For all street tree plantings, except for special planting plans
approved by the Tree Committee, the following minimum planting distances shall
be required.
         (A)   Small trees shall be planted at least twenty-five (25) feet
apart.
         (B)   Medium trees shall be planted at least thirty-five (35) feet
apart.
         (C)   Large trees shall be planted at least fifty (50) feet apart.
      13.1.5   Open Soil Surface Area.
         Trees shall have a minimum of sixteen (16) square feet of open soil
surface area when planted in tree wells or concrete cutouts. Otherwise, trees
shall have the minimum open soil surface areas listed below.
         (A)   Small trees - sixteen (16) square feet (four (4) feet x four (4)
feet).
         (B)   Medium trees - sixty-four (64) square feet (eight (8) feet x
eight (8) feet).
         (C)   Large trees - one hundred and forty-four (144) square feet
(twelve (12) feet x twelve (12) feet).
      13.1.6   Utility Locates.
         The party excavating the planting hole shall be responsible for
insuring that all underground utilities have been located and marked prior to
any excavation.
      13.1.7   City Tree Planting Permit.
         A city tree planting permit shall be required for anyone to plant
trees or landscape plants on public property. On state highway rights-of-way, a
State of South Carolina Encroachment Permit shall also be required (see Sec.
13.1.8). The Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for issuing city
tree planting permits. The Street Department Manager may, at his option, refer
approval to the Tree Committee. Applications for city tree planting permits
shall include, at a minimum, the following information.
         (A)   Application date.
         (B)   Name and contact information of applicant.
         (C)   Address where the tree is to be planted.
         (D)   Tree species to be planted.
         (E)   Caliper size of tree (diameter of trunk measured at six (6)
inches above the ground line).
         (F)   Exact location of planting site and description, including the
presence of overhead or underground utility lines.
         (G)   Three (3) year maintenance plan and schedule.
(Am. Ord. 05-16, passed 12-12-2005)
      13.1.8   State of South Carolina Encroachment Permit.
         A State of South Carolina encroachment permit is required for any
landscaping work performed on state highway rights-of-way and can be requested
from the South Carolina Department of Transportation. A sketch plan of the
proposed project must be attached to the encroachment permit application. This
plan should show the planting arrangement and the type of plants to be used.
Photographs may also be helpful.
         All proposed encroachment permit applications should clearly state the
following information.
         (A)   Speed limit (mph).
         (B)   Cut or fill slope (check with local Resident Maintenance
Engineer).
         (C)   Traffic volume - less or greater than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) ADT (check with local Resident Maintenance Engineer).
         (D)   Label guardrail; barrier curb; sidewalks; edge of pavement and
right-of-way line on sketch; indicate traffic lights at road intersections (a
label stating "TL" in a box is acceptable).
         (E)   State distance plant material is from curb or edge of pavement
(offset).
13.2   Maintenance.
      13.2.1   Pruning.
      (A)   Public Trees.
         Tree pruning shall be done on a routine basis to provide pedestrian,
traffic, sign, light, and signal clearance, to reduce conflicts with buildings
and infrastructure, to improve tree structure, form, and health, and to remove
dead, diseased, dying and otherwise objectionable branches over two (2) inches
in diameter. Tree pruning shall be done in accordance with current professional
standards (ANSI A300). The following clearances shall be maintained through
routine pruning.
         (1)   Seven (7) feet above sidewalks and walkways.
         (2)   Twelve (12) feet above residential streets.
         (3)   Sixteen (16) feet above major thoroughfares.
      (B)   Newly Planted.
         Newly planted trees shall be inspected during the summer months at one
(1), two (2), and three (3) years after planting and pruned if necessary to
improve their structure and health.
      (C)   Private Trees.
         The city shall have the right to prune trees on private property to
provide clearance over public sidewalks and roadways, to improve visibility of
signs, signals, and lights, and to reduce hazards.
      (D)   Utility Line.
         All pruning completed for the purpose of utility line clearance shall
be done in accordance with current professional standards (ANSI A300) and shall
be supervised by a Certified Arborist.
      (E)   Topping.
         The topping of any publicly owned tree shall not be permitted under
any circumstances. The city may, at its discretion, require that any party
topping public trees pay a penalty in an amount up to but no greater than the
appraised value of the tree prior to topping.
      13.2.2   Mulching.
         All newly planted trees shall be mulched with leaves, aged wood chips,
pine straw, or other good quality organic mulch during the establishment period
- the first three (3) years after planting. Mulch shall be applied in an even
layer, three (3)-four (4) inches deep, out to the dripline of the tree. All
trees shall be mulched where practical, as far out towards the dripline as
possible. Mulch shall be kept at least six (6) inches away from the tree trunk
to avoid creating favorable conditions for insect, disease, or rodent
infestation.
      13.2.3   Fertilization.
         Fertilization may be done where and when a soil or foliar test
indicates a nutrient deficiency. Fertilization shall be done according to
current professional standards (ANSI A300).
      13.2.4   Irrigation.
         Irrigation shall be done for all newly planted trees during the months
of May through October at least once per week during periods of drought or low
rainfall, up to an amount of one (1) inch of water per week.
      13.2. 5   Pest Control.
         When public trees are found to have insect or disease infestations
that pose a major threat to surrounding trees, they shall be effectively
treated or removed by the city. Spraying of insecticides, fungicides, or
herbicides shall be done only for the control of specific insects, diseases, or
weeds with the proper materials in the necessary strength and applied at the
proper time to obtain the desired control. General spraying for insect,
disease, and weed control shall be discouraged.
13.3   Protection.
      During the installation, repair, alteration, or removal of any building,
house, structure, utility line, or hardscape, or the conduct of a public event
or gathering, any person, firm, or corporation in charge of such work or event
shall protect the roots, trunk, and crown of adjacent public trees from harmful
activities to prevent injury to such trees.
      13.3.1   Activities Harmful to Trees.
         Activities harmful to trees shall include, but are not limited to,
trenching, grading, grubbing, soil backfill or sedimentation, soil cuts, soil
compaction from equipment, vehicle, or pedestrian traffic, soil compaction from
materials storage, soil contamination from equipment maintenance and washouts,
changes in water drainage, fire, trunk wounds, limb wounds, improper pruning,
and broken branches. These activities are common during infrastructure
installation or repair, building or facility construction, and public events or
gatherings.
      13.3.2   Tree Protection Fencing and Other Protection Measures.
         (A)   Except in the case of public events and gatherings, tree
protection fencing shall be erected at the critical root zone prior to the
commencement of any harmful activity by the individual in charge of that
activity, and shall remain in place until the activity is completed. Other
protection measures may include tunneling, trunk wraps, mulching, or
irrigation.
         (B)   Prior to public events and gatherings, trees shall be mulched as
described herein.
      13.3.3   Protection of Heritage Trees.
         Heritage Trees shall be protected from all harmful activities within
their critical root zone. Tunneling at a depth of at least twenty-four (24)
inches, instead of trenching, shall be required for the installation of
underground utility lines within the critical root zone of Heritage Trees.
13.4   Removal.
      13.4.1   Citizen Requests.
         A tree removal permit shall be required for anyone wishing to remove a
tree on public property or to remove a Heritage Tree. The removal of permitted
trees, stumps and associated debris on public property shall be the
responsibility of the party to whom the permit is issued. All removal and
disposal work is to be performed by a properly licensed and bonded contractor
unless the Street Department Manager deems that such work is better served by
use of city personnel and equipment. The removal of Heritage Trees shall be the
responsibility of the property owner, whether public or private. The Street
Department or Tree Committee may charge the cost of the removal of trees by
city personnel and equipment in response to citizen requests, upon
recommendation, to the citizen requesting the removal.
(Am. Ord. 05-16, passed 12-12-2005)
      13.4.2   City Requests.
         The Street Department shall notify the Tree Committee at least ten
(10) days before a regularly scheduled meeting of the Department's intent to
remove Heritage Trees located on public property. This provision shall not
apply in emergency situations or during storm damage clean up. The Department
shall submit with the notification a copy of the Certified Arborist's report
detailing the results of the Arborist's inspection and maintenance
recommendations. The Tree Committee shall provide a ruling in writing to the
city on the removals within three (3) days after the meeting.
      13.4.3   Certified Arborist's Report.
         Prior to removing any Heritage Tree from public property, except in
emergency situations and during storm damage clean up, the Street Department
shall require a written report by an International Society of Arboriculture
(ISA) Certified Arborist on the tree's health and condition, and a written
approval by the Tree Committee. The Arborist's report shall be based upon a
visual, on-the-ground inspection. The report shall include, as a minimum, the
following information.
         (A)   Tree identification information, including species, dbh, and
location.
         (B)   Condition value using the rating system published in the current
edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal developed by the Council of Tree and
Landscape Appraisers and published by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
         (C)   Hazard rating using the current edition of the Photographic
Guide to the Evaluation of Hazard Trees in Urban Areas written by Nelda P.
Metheny and James R. Clark, and published by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
         (D)   Recommended maintenance action (prune, cable and brace, remove,
or other) and priority (routine or immediate).
      13.4.4   Tree Removal Permit.
         A permit shall be required for any party, except for city personnel
and those acting at the expressed request or direction of the city, to remove
any tree located on public property and for the removal of Heritage Trees on
private property. The application for a tree removal permit shall be submitted
to the Code Enforcement Director. The Code Enforcement Director will forward
the application to the Street Department Manager who will review the
application, conduct a physical assessment, and make a report to the Code
Enforcement Director within fifteen (15) workdays of the submission of the
application. At his discretion, the Street Department Manager will report one
(1) of the following actions taken:
         (A)   A permit is not required because the subject tree is deemed a
hazard or otherwise unsuitable tree and will be scheduled for removal by the
Street Department.
         (B)   A permit is required and the application has been either
accepted or rejected.
         (C)   The application is to be referred to the Tree Committee for
consideration.
If a ruling is to be made by the Tree Committee, the Code Enforcement Director
will forward the application to the committee at least ten (10) days prior to a
regularly scheduled Tree Committee meeting. The Tree Committee shall rule on
the application and notify the Code Enforcement Director of the results of the
ruling within three (3) days after the meeting. The Code Enforcement Director
shall issue the tree removal permit based on the ruling of either the Street
Department Manager or the Tree Committee. The application for a tree removal
permit must include, at a minimum, the following information.
         (A)   Application date.
         (B)   Name and contact information of applicant.
         (C)   Tree location.
         (D)   Tree species.
         (E)   Tree circumference at four and one-half (4-1/2) feet above
ground level.
         (F)   Reason for removal.
(Am. Ord. 05-16, passed 12-12-2005)
      13.4.5   Permitted Reasons.
         Removal shall be permitted for the following reasons. Removal for
other reasons may be permitted by recommendation of the Street Department
Manager or the Tree Committee.
         (A)   Tree is dead.
         (B)   The tree is affected by an insect or disease problem that is
untreatable and results in rapidly declining tree health or a hazardous
condition.
         (C)   Tree is dying due to past damage and its condition cannot be
improved with standard maintenance techniques.
         (D)   Tree has an uncorrectable structural defect that results in an
increased risk of whole or partial tree failure.
         (E)   Tree is reducing sight visibility and the correction of the
problem will result in severe disfigurement of the tree or crown reduction
below fifty percent (50%).
         (F)   The tree is in a restricted growing space, is in conflict with
the surrounding hardscape or infrastructure, and the conflict cannot be
resolved.
         (G)   Tree is in conflict with overhead utility lines and proper
pruning cannot adequately reduce the conflict without severely disfiguring the
tree.
(Am. Ord. 05-16, passed 12-12-2005)
      13.4.6   Notification.
         The Code Enforcement Officer shall notify citizens of the scheduled
removal of Heritage Trees located on public property at least ten (10) days
prior to removal. Notification shall be accomplished through the posting of two
(2) signs, at least eight and one-half (8-1/2) x eleven (11) inches in size, on
the street and sidewalk sides of the tree, and by a public notice in the local
newspaper. The signs shall remain on the tree for ten (10) days. The signs and
public notice shall include, at a minimum, the following information.
         (A)   Tree species, diameter, and location.
         (B)   Date of posting.
         (C)   Reason for removal.
         (D)   Contact number for the city for more information.
      13.4.7   Replacement of Trees Removed.
         All trees removed on public property shall be replaced within two (2)
years after removal. If the site where the tree was removed is not suitable for
replanting, a tree shall be planted in a suitable location as close as possible
to the removal location. If there is no suitable location close to the removal
location, then a tree shall be planted in a planned planting location in the
vicinity. The Tree Committee may, at its discretion, assess a replacement fee
of three hundred dollars ($300) per tree for each tree removed to the
individual, group, or agency requesting the removal.
(Am. Ord. 05-16, passed 12-12-2005)
      13.4.8   Stump Removal.
         All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed to a depth of
eight (8) inches below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump
shall not project above the surface of the ground. Sod, grass seed, or other
satisfactory ground cover shall be placed and maintained on the site of the
removed or ground stump. Stumps shall not be ground in cemeteries.
      13.4.9   Private Trees.
         The city shall have the right to remove or cause to be removed trees
on private property that are at a high risk for failure, have insect or disease
infestations that are a threat to surrounding trees, or are otherwise nuisances
that threaten the health and safety of the public.
         (A)   Written Notice.
            Owners of premises where a nuisance tree is located shall be served
a written notice from the Code Enforcement Officer either in person or by
registered mail that action must be taken to abate the nuisance within thirty
(30) days. If after thirty (30) days the nuisance has not been abated, the city
shall have the right to remove the tree or cause the tree to be removed, and
charge the property owner with the cost of removal and all other associated
costs.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-14 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC TREES.
   No person shall damage, destroy, remove, or otherwise harm a tree located on
public property without a tree removal permit or the written consent of the
Code Enforcement Officer. The city shall require compensation for the damage or
destruction of a public tree equal to the appraised value of the tree prior to
the damage.
14.1   Appraised Tree Value.
      The appraised value of a tree shall be calculated by a Certified Arborist
based on the current edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal developed by the
Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers and published by the International
Society of Arboriculture.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city’s Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for enforcing all the
provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-16 VIOLATIONS.
   Except when stated otherwise in this ordinance, any person, firm, or
corporation who violates any provision of this ordinance or who fails to comply
with any notice issued pursuant to provisions of this ordinance, upon being
found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500) for each separate offense. All monies collected as a
result of violations shall be allocated to the city’s tree program and shall be
placed in the Tree Committee account.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-17 EMERGENCIES.
   In case of emergencies involving, but not limited to, tornadoes, windstorms,
floods, hurricanes, freezes, or other natural disasters, the requirements of
this ordinance may be waived by the Mayor and a quorum of four (4) City Council
members.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
§ 3-2-18 APPEALS.
   The Tree Committee shall serve as the Appeals Board for the administration
of this ordinance. Requests for an appeal shall be sent to the Tree Committee
at least ten (10) days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee.
The party requesting the appeal shall be notified within three (3) days of the
Tree Committee's ruling. Actions of the Tree Committee may be appealed through
the Code Enforcement Director to the Mayor and City Council for a final ruling.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-10-03)
CHAPTER 3: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
3-3-1   Establishment of Utility and Enterprise Fund
3-3-2   Limitation of the Stormwater Utility System
3-3-3   Requirements for On-site Stormwater Systems; Enforcement Methods and
Inspections
3-3-4   Definitions
3-3-5   Stormwater Service Charge Rates
3-3-6   Stormwater Service Charge Billing, Delinquencies and Collections
3-3-7   Appeals
3-3-8   Unlawful Damage to, Alteration of or Tampering with City's Stormwater
System
§ 3-3-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF UTILITY AND ENTERPRISE FUND.
   (A)   Rules of language and interpretation.
      (1)   The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive.
      (2)   The particular shall control the general.
      (3)   Words used in present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular include the plural, and plural the singular, unless the
context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (B)   The City Council hereby establishes a stormwater utility which shall
be responsible for stormwater management throughout the city's corporate
limits, and shall provide for the management, protection, control, regulation
and enforcement, use, and enhancement of stormwater systems and facilities.
   (C)   The City Council directs that a Stormwater Enterprise Fund be
established in the city budget and accounting system for the purpose of
dedicating and protecting all funding applicable to the purposes and
responsibilities of the utility, including but not limited to rentals, rates,
charges, fees and licenses as may be established by the City Council. All
revenues and receipts of the stormwater utility shall be placed in the
Stormwater Enterprise Fund and all expenses of the utility shall be paid for
the Stormwater Enterprise Fund, except that other revenues, receipts, and
resources not accounted for in the Stormwater Enterprise Fund may be applied to
stormwater management operations and capital investments as deemed appropriate
by the city.
   (D)   The City Council hereby transfers to the stormwater utility the
existing stormwater systems and facilities owned and operate by the city and
other interests and assets including but not limited to easements, rights-of-
entry and access, and certain equipment. The City Council declares that the
economic value to the city of the stormwater systems, facilities, and other
interests and assets hereby transferred to the utility is equal to the economic
value to the city of the utility assuming future responsibility for the
management, protection, control, regulation, use and enhancement of the
stormwater systems, facilities and programs.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 3-3-2 LIMITATION OF THE STORMWATER UTILITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   The stormwater system shall be limited to those drainage ways,
channels, ditches, swales, storm sewers, culverts, inlets, catch basins, head
waffs and other structures which control and/or convey stormwater and which:
      (1)   Are located within public street, rights-of-way, and easements;
      (2)   Are subject to rights-of-entry, rights-of-access, rights-of-use, or
other permanent provisions for adequate access for operation, maintenance, and/
or improvement of systems and facilities; or
      (3)   Are located on public lands to which the city has adequate access
for operation, maintenance, and/or improvement of systems and facilities.
   (B)   Stormwater systems and facilities which are located on private or
public property not owned by the city and which are not subject to public
dedication of the systems, facilities, easements, rights-of ways, or other
adequate access for operation, maintenance, and /or improvement of the systems
and facilities shall be and remain the responsibility of the property owner,
except as that responsibility may be affected by the laws of the state and the
United States of America.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 3-3-3 REQUIREMENTS FOR ON-SITE STORMWATER SYSTEMS; ENFORCEMENT METHODS AND
INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All property owners and developers or real property to be developed
within the city shall provide, manage, maintain, and operate on-site stormwater
systems and facilities sufficient to collect, convey, detain, control, and
discharge stormwater in a safe manner consistent with all city development
regulations and the laws of the state and the United States of America. Any
failure to meet this obligation shall constitute a nuisance if the owner fails
to properly abate within such reasonable time as allowed by the court, the city
may enter upon the property and cause such work as is reasonably necessary to
be performed, with the actual cost thereof charged to the owner in the same
manner as a stormwater service charge.
   (B)   The city shall have the right, pursuant to the authority of this
chapter, for its designated officers and employees to enter upon private
property and public property owned by other than the city, upon reasonable
notice to the owner thereof, to inspect the property and conduct surveys and
engineering tests thereon in order to assure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 3-3-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES. Includes all properties developed for uses other than
residential properties, as defined in this chapter.
   DEVELOPED LAND. Property altered from its natural state by construction or
installation of more than two hundred (200) contiguous square feet of
impervious surfaces as defined in this section.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACES. Those areas which prevent or impede the infiltration of
stormwater into the soil as it entered in natural conditions prior to
development. Common impervious areas include, but are not limited to, rooftops,
sidewalks, walkways, patio areas, driveways, parking lots, storage area,
compacted gravel and soil surfaces, awnings and other fabric or plastic
coverings, and other surfaces which prevent or impede the natural infiltration
of stormwater runoff which existed prior to development.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES. Includes but are not limited to the following
categories which will be identified as the appropriate dwelling unit
classifications to be utilized in applying the stormwater utility fee structure
to the designations contained within the city limits:
      (1)   Single-family;
      (2)   Apartments;
      (3)   Townhouses;
      (4)   Condominiums;
      (5)   Mobile home parks;
      (6)   Mobile home lots.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SERVICES. Those activities and functions conducted by
the city that together result in the collection, conveyance, and disposal of
stormwater runoff, including support activities and functions necessary to
accomplish the mission of the stormwater management program, and shall include
but not be limited to the administration, engineering, operation and
maintenance, regulation and enforcement, and improvement of systems and
facilities, review of development proposals and of the installation and
maintenance of stormwater systems on private properties, provision of
stormwater quality management programs to eliminate or mitigate the impact of
pollutants contained in stormwater runoff, and flood emergency response and
recovery measures.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND FACILITIES. Includes but are not limited
to, rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, ponds, channels, ditches, swales, other
drainage ways, storm sewers, culverts, inlets, catch basins, headwalls, dams,
reservoirs and other impoundments, flumes, stormwater detention and retention
storage areas, filters, riparian areas, plants, works, instrumentalities,
properties, and other structural and nonstructural components that control,
capture, collect, convey, route, restrict, store, detain, retain, infiltrate,
cleanse, or otherwise affect or influence the flow of stormwater within the
city and the quality of stormwater discharged from the city.
   STORMWATER SERVICE CHARGES. The periodic service charge imposed pursuant to
this chapter by the city for the purpose of funding costs related to stormwater
management services and stormwater management systems and facilities. The use
of the area of impervious surface on each property as a stormwater service
charge rate parameter shall not preclude the use of other parameters, or of
grouping of properties having similar characteristics through the use of ranges
or rounding up or down to a consistent numerical interval, or the use of flat-
rate charges for one or more classes of similarly-situated properties whose
impact on city's cost of providing stormwater management services and
stormwater management systems and facilities is relatively consistent.
STORMWATER SERVICE CHARGES may also include special charges to individual
properties or persons for services, systems, or facilities related to
stormwater management, including but not limited to charges for development
plan review, inspection of development projects and on-site stormwater control
systems, and enhanced levels of stormwater service and beyond the levels
normally provided by the city.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 3-3-5 STORMWATER SERVICE CHARGE RATES.
   Stormwater service charge rates may be determined and modified from time to
time by the City Council so that the total revenue generated by said charges
and any other sources of revenues or other resources allocated by the City
Council to stormwater utility shall be sufficient to meet the cost of
stormwater management services, systems, and facilities, including but not
limited to the payment of principal and interest on debt obligations, operating
expense, capital outlays, non-operating expense, provisions for prudent
reserves, and other costs related to stormwater as deemed appropriated by the
City Council. The initial stormwater service charge rates shall apply:
   (A)   Residential properties. Residential properties, as defined by this
chapter, shall be billed for stormwater service charges, as defined in this
chapter, of four dollars ($4.00) per month.
   (B)   Commercial properties. Commercial properties, as defined by this
chapter, shall be billed for the stormwater service charge, as defined in this
chapter, of five dollars ($5.00) per one-half (½) acre per month.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 3-3-6 STORMWATER SERVICE CHARGE BILLING, DELINQUENCIES AND COLLECTION.
   The stormwater fee will be included on the monthly water and sewer utility
bill. These fees, including late fees, shall be levied, collected and paid in
the same manner as water and wastewater (sewer) utility fees. The stormwater
service charge bill may also be billed and collected along with other charges,
including but not limited to other city assessments, or property taxes, as
deemed most effective and efficient by the City Council. Failure to receive a
bill is not justification for nonpayment. If a customer is under billed or if
no bill is sent for developed land, the city may back-bill for a period of up
to one (1) year but shall not assess penalties for any delinquency during that
back-billed period. The city shall have the authority to discontinue water
services for failure to pay stormwater utility fees at such time fees are
payable. Services shall be reinstated only in accordance with the rules and
regulations in force and effect at the time.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 3-3-7 APPEALS.
   Any customer aggrieved by a final assessment of the provisions of this
chapter may appeal the decision in following manner and sequence.
   (A)   An appeal must be filed in writing with the City Manager (or
designee). At the discretion of the city, the appeal may require a survey
prepared by a registered land surveyor or professional engineer containing
information on the total property area, the impervious surface area, and any
other features or conditions that influence the hydrologic response of the
property to rainfall events.
   (B)   Using information provided by the appellant, a Technical Committee
comprised of the Public Works Director and two (2) other persons appointed by
the City Manager shall conduct a technical review of the conditions on the
property and respond to the appeal in writing within thirty (30) days. In
response to an appeal, the Public Works Director or designee may adjust the
stormwater service charge applicable to the property in conformance with the
general purposes and intent of this chapter.
   (C)   A decision of the Technical Committee that is adverse to an appellant
may be further appealed to the City Manager within thirty (30) days of the
adverse decision. Notice of the appeal shall be delivered to the City Manager
by the appellant, stating the grounds for further appeal. The City Manager
shall issue a written decision on the appeal within thirty (30) days. All
decisions by the City Manager shall be served on the customer personally or by
registered or certified mail, sent to the billing address of the customer. All
decisions of the City Manager shall be final, except that this provision shall
not abridge the right of any person to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   No person shall be subject to penalties until ten (10) days after
notice of denial of appeal or until after judgment of a competent jurisdiction
upholding such denial.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 3-3-8 UNLAWFUL DAMAGE TO, ALTERATION OF OR TAMPERING WITH CITY'S STORMWATER
SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
damage, deface, alter, change or tamper with the city's stormwater system; and
upon conviction, said person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a
fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500) and/or sentenced to serve up to
thirty (30) days; and such person shall be subject to paying full costs
incurred by the city as a way of restitution.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-11-2018)
TITLE 4: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Chapter
   
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
2.   SEWER
   
3.   WATER
   
4.   CHARGES AND FEES
   
5.   DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN AND RESPONSE ORDINANCE
   
6.   WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT AND DISCHARGE
   
7.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
4-1-1   Purpose
4-1-2   Scope
4-1-3   Combined Water and Sewer System
4-1-4   Definitions
§ 4-1-1 PURPOSE.
   This title sets forth uniform requirements for users of the city's
waterworks and sewerage system and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and
S.C. Code §§ 48-5-10 et seq.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-1-2 SCOPE.
   This title shall apply to the city and to persons outside of the city who
are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city's waterworks
and/or sewerage system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the City Manager
or his designee shall have the authority to administer, implement and enforce
the provisions of this title.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-1-3 COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The existing waterworks system and the existing sewerage system of the
city shall be and are hereby combined into a single system which shall be
operated and known as the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the city.
   (B)   The business operations of the city's combined system will be kept
separate from any other business of the city. The combined system shall be
operated on a fiscal year basis commencing on July 1 in each year and ending on
June 30 of the succeeding year. Accounting records shall be maintained on an
accrual basis.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-1-4 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of
terms used in this title shall be as follows:
      ACCESSIBILITY shall mean a distance from the nearest point of the water
and sewer system to the property line nearest the system of not greater than
one hundred and fifty (150) feet. If the distance is greater than one hundred
and fifty (150) feet, said system shall be deemed not accessible.
      BOD means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of
organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in five (5) days at 20
degrees Celsius expressed in terms of concentration (e.g., milligrams per
liter) and/or weight (pounds).
      BUILDING DRAIN shall mean that part of lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil waste and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five (5) feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER shall mean the extension from the building drain to the
public sewer or other place of disposal.
      CUSTOMER shall mean any person, firm, corporation, company, association,
society or group who owns improved real estate to whom water and/or sewer
service is available and accessible or who has signed a contract with the city
to become a customer without regard to whether or not such person makes use of
the system.
      DISTRIBUTION MAIN is one from which service connections with customers
are taken at frequent intervals.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or  EPA means the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division
Director, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      GARBAGE shall mean solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation of cooking and dispensing of food from the handling, storage and
sale of food.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER means the liquid wastes resulting from the
processes employed in industrial, manufacturing, trade or business
establishments, as distinct from domestic wastes.
      METER shall mean any device used for the purpose of measuring the
quantity of water or wastewater delivered by the city to a customer.
      NATURAL OUTLET shall mean any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake or other body of surface or ground water.
      pH a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution expressed in
standard units.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE shall mean the waste from the preparation of
cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half (1/2) inch in any
dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER shall mean a sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights and which is controlled by public authority.
      SANITARY SEWER shall mean a sewer which carries sewage to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
      SERVICE LINE shall mean the line between the distribution main or sewer
collector line and the point where connection is made to the customer's
plumbing and shall include all pipe, fittings, and valves necessary to make the
connection.
      SERVICE CONNECTION shall mean the points where the service line is
connected to the distribution main or collector line and to the customer's
plumbing.
      SEWAGE shall mean a combination of water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT shall mean any arrangement of the devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
      SEWAGE WORKS shall mean all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage or industrial wastewaters.
      SEWER shall mean a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SEWER SURCHARGE shall mean a charge for sewer service and treatment
service for wastes having characteristics different from sanitary wastes and
for which additional charges must be assessed in order for the discharges to
make compensation for additional expenses incurred in handling these different
wastewaters.
      SLUG shall mean any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for
any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5)
times the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration occurring during normal
operation.
      STANDARD METHODS shall mean the examination and analytical procedures set
forth in the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
      STORM DRAIN sometimes termed STORM SEWER , shall mean a sewer which
carries storm and surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and
industrial wastes.
      STREET  the word STREET shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues,
drives, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and viaducts, and all other public
highways in the sanitary area.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall mean solids that either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids which are removable by
laboratory filtering and is further defined in standard methods.
      SEWER SYSTEM shall mean the City of Dillon, South Carolina and its entire
system of sewer collection lines.
      TOTAL SOLIDS shall mean the sum of suspended matter, settleable matter
and dissolved matter, both volatile and nonvolatile and as further defined in
standard methods.
      TREATMENT WORKS shall mean all facilities for collecting, pumping,
treating and disposing of sewage or industrial wastewaters.
      TRANSMISSION MAIN is used for conveying water to the distribution system,
reservoirs, tanks or standpipes and has generally no service connections with
customers.
      USER shall mean any person who purchases water from the city's waterworks
system or any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city's sewerage system. USER shall have the same meaning as
customer.
      WATERCOURSE shall mean a channel in which flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATER SYSTEM shall mean the City of Dillon, South Carolina and its entire
system of water supply.
   (B)   All other words shall be construed as having the meaning defined in
Glossary Water and Sewage Control Engineering, published by the Water Pollution
Control Federation, Washington, D.C., in §
1-3-42 of this Code, or by their general usage if undefined.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
CHAPTER 2: SEWER
Section
4-2-1   Purpose
4-2-2   Information Available to Customer
4-2-3   Privies Prohibited; Installation of Septic Tanks
4-2-4   Connection with Sewer Required
4-2-5   Old Building Sewers
4-2-6   Building Sewer Materials
4-2-7   Building Sewer Grades and Sizes
4-2-8   Certain Connections Prohibited
4-2-9   License for Installation Required
4-2-10   Inspection of Connections
4-2-11   Construction Procedures
4-2-12   Record of Sewer Connections
4-2-13   OSHA Requirements
4-2-14   Infiltration and Inflow
4-2-15    Interceptors and Traps
4-2-16    Maintaining Treatment Facilities; Monthly Report
4-2-17    Powers and Authority of Inspectors
4-2-18    Photographic and Visual Inspections
4-2-19    Administration; Rules and Regulations
4-2-20    Notice to Abate Violation
4-2-21    Penalties
4-2-22    Discharge of Septic Tank Wastes
4-2-23    Continuity of Service
4-2-24    Extensions by City
4-2-25    Sewer Cut-offs Required
§ 4-2-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide standard rules and regulations
governing the collection and treatment of wastewater and sewer service for the
customers of the city's system, both within and without the city. The
Pretreatment Ordinance (
Appendix A) is made a part of this Chapter with the purpose of providing
standard rules and regulations to comply with pertaining sections of 40 C.F.R.
pt. 403.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-2 INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO CUSTOMER.
   The city shall make available, upon request to any customer or applicant for
service at its principal place of business, any pertinent information regarding
the services rendered, including the following:
   (A)   A schedule of rates for sewer service.
   (B)   Information about the method of reading meters.
   (C)   A statement of the past reading of a customer's meter for a period of
two (2) years.
   (D)   A copy of the general rules and regulations of the system and forms of
contracts and applications applicable to the area served from the office at a
nominal charge.
   (E)   The city shall have on file a suitable map, maps, drawing showing the
following:
      (1)   Location of all principal pumping stations, treatment plants and
character and location of all known force mains and gravity sewers, and
manholes;
      (2)   Layout of all principal pumping stations and treatment plants, to
show size, location and character of all major equipment, pipe lines,
connections, valves and other equipment used.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-3 PRIVIES PROHIBITED; INSTALLATION OF SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect, install,
maintain or permit to remain any privy or cesspool within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect or install a
septic tank within the city.
§ 4-2-4 CONNECTION WITH SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person owning or occupying real property within the corporate
limits of the city used as a place of business or residence, located within a
distance of one hundred and fifty (150) feet of an accessible public sewer
shall connect the property with the public sewer.
   (B)   Such connections shall be made within ninety (90) days after the
availability of sewer, and for the purposes of the penal provisions of this
chapter, each day after this in which such building shall not be connected to
such collector line shall be a separate offense and punishable as hereinafter
provided.
   (C)   The city may waive or extend the time limits in this section for
sufficient reason or hardship by written approval of the City Manager.
Permitting a septic tank system to continue to exist ninety (90) days after the
construction of a sewer line shall not relieve the owner from the obligation to
pay a sewer bill just as though he had actually connected to the sewer as the
law provides. When connecting to the sewer at a future date, no portion of the
monthly bills paid may be used as a credit toward the normal connection
charges.
§ 4-2-5 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-6 BUILDING SEWER MATERIALS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
appropriate specifications of the ASTM or WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9, all
installation to be subject to the expressed written approval of the city and in
no case shall the size of pipe installed be less than four (4) inches in
nominal diameter for gravity sewer and two (2) inches for force mains.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-7 BUILDING SEWER GRADES AND SIZES.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement or first floor. No building sewer shall be made
parallel to or within three (3) feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby
be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from live loads
(automobile, etc.) which may be superimposed. The building sewer shall be made
at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. The building
sewer shall be constructed to such point as directed by the city.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-8 CERTAIN CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maintain or make a connection of roof downspout, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-9 LICENSE FOR INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   The installation and connection of the building sewer to the sewer
collection line should be completed by a person properly licensed by the city
to perform such service and shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
After installation, the property owner shall be responsible for maintenance for
the connection and entire service line.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-10 INSPECTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   Before any underground portions thereof are covered, the applicant for the
building sewer permit shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection thereof shall
be made to the public sewer by the city, and only after inspection. The
inspection thereof shall be made within two (2) working days of the receipt of
notice by the city.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-11 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. All construction
must be in conformance with city specifications.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-12 RECORD OF SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall keep a permanent and accurate record of the location,
depth, and direction of all new sewer connections, including such landmarks as
may be necessary to make an adequate description. (Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
   (B)   Tracer wire shall be laid along side any and all sewer lines
constructed to aid in future location of that line.
§ 4-2-13 OSHA REQUIREMENTS.
   All pertinent OSHA requirements must be met during the construction of any
portion of the treatment works.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-14 INFILTRATION AND INFLOW.
   All connections to the sewer system shall be constructed and maintained by
the property owner so as to prevent the entrance of infiltration and/or inflow
into the city system.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-2-15 INTERCEPTORS AND TRAPS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided where,
in the opinion of the Utilities Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful materials. All interceptors or traps
shall be of a type, capacity, and design approved by the Utilities Director,
and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall
be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously effective operation
at all times.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-16 MAINTAINING TREATMENT FACILITIES; MONTHLY REPORT.
   (A)   Where traps, interceptors, pretreatment, or complete facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner, at his expense, and shall be
subject to periodic inspection by the Utilities Director.
   (B)   The owner shall maintain operating records and shall submit to the
Utilities Director a monthly summary report of the character of the influent
and effluent, as may be prescribed by the Utilities Director, to show
performance of the treatment facilities.
   (C)   Records of effluent may be required by the Utilities Director where,
in his opinion, prohibited substances and materials or waste concentration may
exist at levels above that which is permitted in this chapter, whether or not
any traps, interceptors, or pretreatment facilities exist. The frequency and
number of these tests shall be prescribed by the Utilities Director, and shall
be conducted at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-17 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The city or duly authorized representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of setting up monitoring equipment, reviewing and copying records,
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The city or its representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in § 4-2-17 (A) above, the city or duly authorized representatives of the city,
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city’s representative. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by the city’s representative and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and/or sampling operations, except as
such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions.
   (C)   The city or duly authorized representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the treatment works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-18 PHOTOGRAPHIC AND VISUAL INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Utilities Director is hereby directed, prior to final approval of
any newly installed sewer system and/or reconstructed sewer, to require that
any and all contractors or developers cause to be made photographs of the
entire sewer system installed, showing thereby that the sewer system has been
constructed upon a sound engineering basis, is free of any and all
accumulations of foreign substances, is of sound workmanship, and that the
passage of and flow of sanitary sewage is free and clear. If, at the discretion
of the Utilities Director, the sewers are large enough, a visual inspection
shall be made and a report of such inspection submitted to the city as a
permanent record.
   (B)   The Utilities Director, upon inspection of such photographs and/or
visual inspection reports, if satisfied that such sewer is free and clear of
all foreign substances and is of sound workmanship, and if there is nothing
present to prevent free flow of sewage, is hereby authorized to approve the
same as a final inspection, placing in safekeeping all photographs and/or
inspection reports for future reference by the city.
   (C)   The cost of such photographing and photographs and/or inspection
reports shall be paid for entirely by the contractor or developer of such land
and/or sewer system, and such photographs and/or inspection reports shall
remain the property of the city.
   (D)   Should it not be feasible to conduct the above described photographic
and visual inspections, the Utilities Director may allow an alternative method
if it provides sufficient documentation for a determination of the
acceptability of construction.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
   Prior to commencing construction on any project enumerated in this section,
the city shall first obtain a “permit to construct” for said project from the
Industrial Wastewater Division of DHEC. A final inspection and “permit to
operate” shall be obtained from DHEC prior to putting the constructed project
into service.
(Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-19 ADMINISTRATION; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Utilities Director is hereby authorized and directed to make such rules
and regulations as are necessary for the safe, economical and efficient
management and protection of the sewerage system, sewage pumping, treatment and
disposal works. Such rules and regulations shall have the same force and effect
as ordinances, when not repugnant thereto, or to the constitution or laws of
the state. Such rules and regulations shall be approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-20 NOTICE TO ABATE VIOLATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of the
sewer rules and regulations shall be served by the Utilities Director with
written notice, stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the time stated in such notice, or as may be extended by the Utilities
Director, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-21 PENALTIES.
   Whoever continues any violation beyond the time limit provided in §
4-2-20 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000). Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-22 DISCHARGE OF SEPTIC TANK WASTES.
   Septic tank waste is prohibited from discharge at the municipal treatment
plants.
(Ord. 21-06, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 4-2-23 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)    Emergency Interruptions. The city shall make all reasonable efforts
to prevent interruptions of service, and when such interruptions occur, shall
endeavor to re-establish service with the shortest possible delay consistent
with safety to its consumers and the general public.
   (B)    Scheduled Interruptions. Whenever the city finds it necessary to
schedule an interruption to its service, a representative of the city shall
notify all customers to be affected by the interruption, stating the time and
anticipated duration of the interruption. Whenever possible, scheduled
interruptions shall be made at such hours as will provide least inconvenience
to the customer.
   (C)   Record of Interruptions. The city shall keep a complete record of all
interruptions on its entire system or on major divisions thereof. This record
shall show the cause for interruption, date, time, duration, remedy and steps
taken to prevent recurrence.
   (D)   In the event of an interruption, as set forth in (A) and/or (B) above,
the city is hereby authorized to determine and fix special water and sewer
adjustment of discount and/or rebate charges to customers affected by the
interruption, based upon the quantity of water delivered to the customer, the
rates fixed for such quantity, and upon the facts, circumstances and conditions
of each customer.
   (E)   Because the city does not have absolute control over objects put into
the sewer system by its customers, the city is not liable for any damage caused
by an obstructed sewer.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-24 EXTENSIONS BY CITY.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a comprehensive development map showing the
location of future development. Upon approval of the city engineer, all
extensions in compliance with the comprehensive development map shall be
authorized. The size of the lines to be used in the construction of extensions
shall in every case be determined by the city engineer.
   (B)   No collector lines shall be constructed in any new subdivision street
or in any undedicated street until such street has been approved by the proper
authority and all ordinances and code requirements have been complied with.
   (C)   Before collector lines are laid in a new subdivision, the subdivider
shall furnish the city with a record plat or plan of the subdivision and
construction drawings approved by the city engineer, and the plat or plan shall
have been recorded in the Dillon County recorder’s office.
   (D)   Line extensions made off of new lines constructed by city employees
will be subject to tap fees, based upon front foot assessments as spelled out
in Chapter 4.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
   Prior to commencing construction on any project enumerated in this section,
the city shall first obtain a “permit to construct” for said project from the
Industrial Wastewater Division of DHEC. A final inspection and “permit to
operate” shall be obtained from DHEC prior to putting the constructed project
into service.
(Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-2-25 SEWER CUT-OFFS REQUIRED.
   In the case of new construction served by city sewer but not city water, the
builder shall be required to install a sewer cutoff prior to connection with
the city sewerage system.
(Am. Ord. 14-11, passed 12-8-2014)
CHAPTER 3: WATER
Section
4-3-1   Purpose
4-3-2   Information Available to Customers
4-3-3   Quality of Water
4-3-4   Continuity of Service
4-3-5   Connection with Water Required
4-3-6   Distribution Mains
4-3-7   Service Line
4-3-8   License for Installation Required
4-3-9   Construction Standards
4-3-10   Construction Procedures
4-3-11   Inspection of Service Lines
4-3-12   Record of Water Connections
4-3-13   Portion Installed and Maintained by the Utility Department
4-3-14   Portion Installed and Maintained by Property Owner
4-3-15   Failure to Make Repairs
4-3-16   Meter Testing
4-3-17   Metering Private Wells for Sewer Service Discharge
4-3-18   Right to Enter Premises
4-3-19   Meter Reading
4-3-20   Application for Water Usage
4-3-21   Unlawful to Sell Water
4-3-22   Sprinkler Systems
4-3-23   Fire Hydrant Rental
4-3-24   Water Main Replacement
4-3-25   Tampering with a Water Meter
4-3-26   Breaking Meter Seal
4-3-27   Meter Repaired at Expense of Owner
4-3-28   Removal of Meters
4-3-29   Operating Fire Hydrants Unlawfully
4-3-30   Extensions by City
4-3-31   Administration; Rules and Regulations
4-3-32   Notice to Abate Violation
4-3-33   Penalties
4-3-34   Backflow Prevention Program
§ 4-3-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide standard rules and regulations
governing the supply and service of water to customers, both within and without
the city.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-2 INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO CUSTOMERS.
   The city shall make available, upon request to any customer or applicant for
service at its principal place of business, any pertinent information regarding
the services rendered, including the following:
   (A)   A description in writing of the kind of water to be furnished, whether
filtered or unfiltered and whether treated for bacteria or untreated.
   (B)   A schedule of rates for water service.
   (C)   Information about the method of reading meters.
   (D)   A statement of the past reading of a customer's meter for a period of
two (2) years.
   (E)   A copy of the general rules and regulations of the system and forms of
contracts and applications applicable to the territory served from the office
at a nominal charge.
   (F)   The city shall have on file a suitable map, maps, or drawings showing
the following:
      (1)   Location of all principal pumping stations, filter plants, sources
of supply storage facilities and size, character and location of all known
mains, including valves, pressure gauges, and fire hydrants.
      (2)   Layout of all principal pumping stations, filter plants, to show
size, location and character of all major equipment, pipe lines, connections,
valves and other equipment used.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-3 QUALITY OF WATER.
   (A)   The city shall provide water that is wholesome, potable, and not
harmful or dangerous to public health. However, the supply of water to any
consumer for any purpose whatsoever is without guarantee to the consumer of a
fixed quantity, quality, purity, or temperature, these items being subject to
the variable conditions which may arise in the operation and maintenance of the
water system of the city.
   (B)   The city shall conform to all legal requirements of the Department of
Health and Environmental Control for construction and operation of its water
system as pertains to sanitation and potability of the water.
   (C)   Water supply - In the absence of comparable requirements of the
Department of Health and Environmental Control, the following rules shall
apply:
      (1)   Sources: Water supplied by any utility shall be:
         (a)   Obtained from a source free from pollution and adequately
protected from pollution;
         (b)   Adequately protected by artificial treatment;
         (c)   Free from objectionable color, turbidity, taste, and odor.
         (d)   From a source reasonably adequate to provide a continuous supply
of water;
         (e)   Of such quality at all times as to meet the standards of purity
for drinking water as promulgated and required by the Department of Health and
Environmental Control, and amended from time to time.
      (2)   Operation of water system:
         (a)   The water supply system, including wells, reservoirs, pumping
equipment, treatment works mains, and service pipes shall be free from sanitary
defects.
         (b)   No physical connection between the distribution system of the
city water system and that of any other water supply shall be permitted, unless
such other water supply maintains a safe, sanitary quality in accordance with
these rules and regulations and the interconnections of both supplies are
approved by the Department of Health and Environmental Control.
         (c)   The growth of algae in reservoirs or other basins, and in the
water mains, shall be controlled by proper treatment.
      (3)   Testing of water system: The city shall have representative samples
of the water supplied by it examined by the Department of Health and
Environmental Control or by a competent chemist or bacteriorologist skilled in
the sanitary examination of water, under methods approved by the Department of
Health and Environmental Control, at intervals sufficient to insure a safe
water supply.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-4 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to prevent interruptions of
service and when such interruptions occur shall endeavor to re-establish
service with the shortest possible delay consistent with the safety to its
consumers and the general public. Where an emergency interruption of services
affects the service to any public fire protection device, the Director shall
immediately notify the Fire Chief or other public officials responsible for the
fire protection.
   (B)   Whenever the city finds it necessary to schedule an interruption to
its service, a representative of the city shall notify all customers to be
affected by the interruption, stating the time and anticipated duration of the
interruption. Whenever possible, scheduled interruptions shall be made at such
hours as will provide least inconvenience to the customer.
   (C)   The city shall keep a complete record of interruptions on its entire
system or on major divisions thereof. This record shall show the cause for
interruption, date, time, duration, remedy and steps taken to prevent
recurrence.
   (D)   In the event of the interruptions, as set forth in (A) and/or (B)
above, the city is hereby authorized to determine and fix special water and
sewer adjustment of discount and/or rebate charges to customers affected by the
interruption, based upon the quantity of water delivered to the customer, the
rates fixed for such quantity, and upon the facts, circumstances and conditions
of each customer.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-5 CONNECTION WITH WATER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person owning or occupying real property within the corporate
limits of the city used as a place of business or residence, located within a
distance of one hundred and fifty (150) feet of an accessible public water
shall connect the property with the public water.
   (B)   Such connections shall be made within ninety (90) days after the
availability of water, and for the purposes of the penal provisions of this
chapter, each day after this in which such building shall not be connected to
such distribution line shall be a separate offense and punishable as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   The city may waive or extend the time limits in this section for
sufficient reason or hardship by written approval of the City Manager.
Permitting a private water system to continue to exist ninety (90) days after
the construction of a water line shall not relieve the owner from the
obligation to pay a water bill just as though he had actually connected to the
water system as the law provides. When connecting to the water system at a
future date, no portion of the monthly bills paid may be used as a credit
toward the normal connection charges.
   (D)   All businesses for profit who use the city wastewater system are
required to purchase all water needs from the city if available, except those
who were already purchasing from other sources when the city's water supply
became available.
(Ord. 96-17, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 4-3-6 DISTRIBUTION MAINS.
   (A)   The installation of water mains and service lines shall be constructed
in accordance with the specifications for such installations on file at the
Utility Director's office.
   (B)   Insofar as practicable, the city shall design its distribution system
so as to avoid dead ends in its mains. Where dead ends are known or necessary,
the city shall cause hydrants or valves to be installed for the purpose of
flushing the mains. Mains with dead ends shall be flushed as often as necessary
to maintain the quality of the water; but in any event they shall be flushed at
least twice a year.
   (C)   Valves or stop cocks shall be provided at reasonable intervals in the
main so the repairs may be effected by the city with interruptions to the
services of the minimum number of customers that is practically feasible.
   (D)   All new mains shall be thoroughly disinfected before being connected
to the water system.
   (E)   Wherever economically feasible the distribution system shall be laid
out in a grid so that in case of breaks or repairs, the interruptions of
service to the customers would be at a minimum.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-7 SERVICE LINE.
   (A)   The line through which a customer receives water from a distribution
main shall be known as a service line.
   (B)   A service line shall serve only the premises described on the
application and each branch shall be metered. Each house or building shall have
a separate and distinct curb stop located outside the premises opposite such
premises and on public right-of-way. The city engineer may require properties
or premises not so equipped to install additional services and/or curb stops at
the expense of the property owner.
   (C)   In cases of service to complexes such as manufacturing, churches,
schools, apartment buildings, etc., a master meter may be installed to serve
such complexes.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-8 LICENSE FOR INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   The installation and connection of the building to the water distribution
line should be completed by a person properly licensed by the city to perform
such service and shall be the responsibility of the property owner. After
installation, the property owner shall be responsible for maintenance for the
connection and service line from the curb stop into the house.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-9 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The size, design, and material and installation of the service line shall
conform to such reasonable requirements of the city and standards of the AWWA.
Minimum size of a service line shall not be less than three-fourths (3/4) inch
nominal size.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-10 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   All excavations for connection to the water system shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards,
streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. All
construction must be in conformance with city specifications.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-11 INSPECTION OF SERVICE LINES.
   In the installation of a service line, the customer shall leave the trench
open and pipe uncovered until it is inspected by the Utilities Director or his
representative and shown to be free from any "T" branch connection,
irregularity, or defect. A twenty-four (24) hour notice should be given for
inspection. The connection thereof shall be made to the water system by the
city and only after inspection.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-12 RECORD OF WATER CONNECTIONS.
   The city shall keep a permanent and accurate record of location, depth, and
direction of all new water connections, including such land marks as may be
necessary to make an adequate description.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-13 PORTION INSTALLED AND MAINTAINED BY THE UTILITY DEPARTMENT.
   The Service Department will maintain the service line from the distribution
main to the curb box and valve after one (1) year from the date of acceptance.
§ 4-3-14 PORTION INSTALLED AND MAINTAINED BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   On all new installations or services, the service shall be installed from
the distribution main to the point of connection with the building plumbing.
The curb box, valve and line to the building plumbing, shall be the sole
expense of the property owner or his agent, and be maintained by the property
owner or his agent. This service line shall have a minimum depth of twenty-four
(24) inches. Any variations of the above shall be approved in writing by the
city engineer.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-15 FAILURE TO MAKE REPAIRS.
   Failure of the property owner to make repairs when necessary may result in
the water being turned off at the curb stop and the property owner charged for
the estimated quantity of water wasted.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-16 METER TESTING.
   (A)   The Director shall be responsible to test and correct any meter, which
in his judgment is registering incorrectly, without the consent of the property
owner. The city shall not be responsible for breakage of pipes or valves
occurring during removal or installation of meters, where such breakage is due
to old or faulty plumbing.
   (B)   Upon request from an owner or consumer and agreement to pay for test
charge, the Director will remove any meter to the test shop for test, upon
payment of a ten dollar ($10) fee for a three-fourths (3/4) inch meter and for
all other sizes a fee equal to the cost of removing and testing the meter. If,
upon examination and test, it is found that the meter registers outside the
tolerance limits of the following percentages of water through it, viz., two
percent (2%) over or under on disc meters sizes three-fourths (3/4) inch to two
(2) inch on flows from one to twenty (20) gallons per minute, or five percent
(5%) over or under on all other types and sizes of meters on flows from low to
high rating, then it shall be considered "inaccurate" and the water charges
will be adjusted upon the basis of that test and no charge will be made for
testing.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-17 METERING PRIVATE WELLS FOR SEWER SERVICE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The city shall provide for the registration of all wells and the
metering of all water from wells that is discharged to any sewer, either storm,
sanitary or combined.
   (B)   All water meters required shall be installed by and at the expense of
the property owner, including the cost of this meter, as provided by ordinance
or these regulations, after the property owner shall have made any necessary
changes in the building plumbing to separate any well water that does not
discharge to any sewer of the city. All water meters required to properly
measure the flow of water to the sewer shall be owned and maintained by the
city.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-18 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The city reserves the right for its authorized agents to enter at all
reasonable hours, the premises to which its service extends, for the purpose of
reading, repairing, installing removing and/or inspecting water meters, or for
any other purposes which it may deem necessary to properly safeguard the
interests of the city and the consumer. When such access is refused, the
service shall be immediately discontinued and not continued again until the
request of the city has been complied with and "off and on" charge has been
paid, or the city may require the meter to be relocated in an approved pit at
such location as the city directs, or install a remote reader at the expense of
the property owner.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-19 METER READING.
   The reading of the water meters will be monthly. On one (1) unsuccessful
attempt to read the meter, the city reserves the right to bill the consumer an
estimated bill based upon the average use for the previous yearly consumption.
It shall be mandatory that the customer make arrangements to have the meter
read by the Utility Department at least four (4) times a year, which time shall
be during the regular working hours of the Utility Department.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-20 APPLICATION FOR WATER USAGE.
   All applicants for permits for the use of water service must be made in
writing by the owner of the premises or his agent to the city and filed on such
forms as are provided by the city.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-21 UNLAWFUL TO SELL WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell water of
the city water system or enter into contract with any persons for sprinkling of
lots, streets, or for any purpose whatsoever other than their own use, and when
any such contract is known to exist the consumer will be liable to be
disconnected from all water service.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-22 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   All water service shall be furnished upon a metered basis, except as to
public and private fire hydrants and automatic sprinkler systems, which shall
be upon a flat rate or rental basis as is provided in §
4-3-23; and a separate meter shall be installed for each dwelling, business
establishment or property served with water.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-23 FIRE HYDRANT RENTAL.
   (A)   The rental for service to privately owned fire hydrants, where the
hydrants are connected to water mains (the service including the water consumed
in the proper use of the fire hydrant, without additional charge therefor)
shall be fixed by contract between the city and the individual customer,
provided, however, no preferential rates shall be given to users of this class
of service.
   (B)   The charge for service rendered by the system to each automatic
sprinkler system located in the city, the service including water consumed in
the proper use of the system, shall be at the rate of fifteen dollars ($15) a
month up to five hundred (500) heads, plus in additional monthly charge of one
cent ($0.01) for each head in excess of five hundred (500).
   (C)   The charge for service rendered by the system to each automatic
sprinkler system located outside the city, the service including water consumed
in the proper use of the system, shall be at a rate of twenty dollars ($20) a
month up to five hundred (500) heads, plus an additional monthly charge of one
cent ($0.01) for each head in excess of five hundred (500).
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-24 WATER MAIN REPLACEMENT.
   The Utilities Director may replace any existing mains as necessary to
improve the water distribution system. Such replacement may be in a different
location from the main being replaced, but shall be designed so as to serve all
properties already connected to the existing main by means of individual
service branches. No charge will be made to these properties for such
replacement.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-25 TAMPERING WITH A WATER METER.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to tamper with or change any water
meter, or to make any connection to the water or sewer system without
permission from the city or to reconnect service, when it has been disconnected
for nonpayment of a bill for service, until the bill has been paid in full,
including the reconnection fee.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-26 BREAKING METER SEAL.
   When upon inspection, any meter seal or lock has been found broken from any
cause whatsoever, the water will be turned off, and the water will not be
turned on until the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25), or such amount as the
Utilities Director determines to be the actual expense involved, has been paid
to the city as liquidated damages, provided it becomes necessary to seal the
meter or other fixtures of the system.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-27 METER REPAIRED AT EXPENSE OF OWNER.
   Meter damaged by misuse, frost, accident, or any act of carelessness or
negligence will be repaired, or, if necessary, will be replaced by the city at
the expense of the consumer at a charge of not less than ten dollars ($10)
minimum and actual cost of repairs or replacement of the meter or connection
thereof.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-28 REMOVAL OF METERS.
   (A)   A meter shall be removed by an authorized employee of the city only.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall remove or tamper with.
   (C)   With prior permission of the Utilities Director, plumbers may remove
and replace meters.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-29 OPERATING FIRE HYDRANTS UNLAWFULLY.
   Operating of fire hydrants, valves or other control instruments and the
drawing of water therefrom by unauthorized persons is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-30 EXTENSIONS BY CITY.
   (A)   The city shall maintain a comprehensive development map showing the
location of future development. Upon approval of the city engineer, all
extensions in compliance with the comprehensive development map shall be
authorized. The size of the mains to be used in the construction of extensions
shall in every case be determined by the city engineer. As a minimum standard,
all mains in residential areas will be at least six (6) inches and in business
and industrial areas ten (10) inches.
   (B)   No water mains shall be constructed in any new subdivision street or
in any undedicated street until such street has been approved by the proper
authority and all ordinances and code requirements have been complied with.
   (C)   No pumps or other device shall be connected to the system, and no
physical connection shall be permitted between the city's water system and any
other water supply, either through cross connections, auxiliary intakes or by-
passes, except as follows:
      (1)   With another potable public water supply.
      (2)   With a potable supply which is regularly examined as to its quality
by those in charge of potable supplies to which the connection is made.
      This will apply to all private systems whether inside or outside of any
building or buildings.
   (D)   Before water mains or lines are laid in new subdivisions, the
subdivider shall furnish the city with a record plat or plan of the subdivision
and construction drawings approved by the City Engineer, and the plat or plan
shall have been recorded in the Dillon County Recorder’s office.
   (E)   Extensions made off lines constructed by city employees (excluding
replacement lines) will be subject to tap fees based upon front foot
assessments as spelled out in §
4-4-9.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-31 ADMINISTRATION; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Utilities Director is hereby authorized and directed to make such rules
and regulations as are necessary for the safe, economical and efficient
management and protection of the water system. Such rules and regulations shall
have the same force and effect as ordinances, when not repugnant thereto, or to
the constitution or laws of the state. Such rules and regulations shall be
approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-32 NOTICE TO ABATE VIOLATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of the
water rules and regulations shall be served by the Utilities Director with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the time stated in such notice, or as may be extended by the Utilities
Director, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-33 PENALTIES.
   Whoever continues any violation beyond the time limit provided in §
4-3-32 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100). Each day's continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-3-34 BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   That a backflow prevention be and is hereby initiated requiring all
water taps to have installed and properly maintained backflow prevention
devices.
   (B)   That the City Manager or his designee shall give notice to all
participating businesses and industries concerning these regulations and shall
require such installation, repair, or maintenance in a time table not to exceed
thirty (30) days. The same notice shall also be given to all residential
property owners that have irrigation meters.
   (C)   That a program of annual device testing be and is hereby established,
with a copy of all records of findings, and proper repairs being maintained by
the Water and Sewer Department. All devices shall also be inspected and tested
upon installation.
   (D)   That the city hereby establishes a fee of sixty dollars ($60) for all
devices tested to conduct these examinations.
   (E)   Failure to comply with the regulations concerning installation and
repair of a backflow device shall result in the discontinuance of water to the
customer until proper installation or repair is made.
(Ord. 02-19, passed 10-14-2002)
CHAPTER 4: CHARGES AND FEES
Section
4-4-1   Mandatory Charge for Service
4-4-2   Billing Practice
4-4-3   Sewer User Charge
4-4-4   Monthly Charges
4-4-5   Fee for Unmetered Sewer Users
4-4-6   Waiver of Sewer Charge
4-4-7   Water Sales to Casual Users in Containers Furnished by the Users
4-4-8   Construction Water
4-4-9   New Connections
4-4-10   Bill and Payment Schedule
4-4-11   Charges a Lien Against Property
4-4-12   Partial Payments
4-4-13   Owner May Have Tenant Pay for Water and Sewer
4-4-14   Bad Check Charges
4-4-15   Deposits
4-4-16   No Rebate for Leaks
4-4-17   Overcharge and Undercharge Adjustment
4-4-18   Precedence of User Charge System
4-4-19   Septic Tank Dumping
4-4-20   Utility Review Committee
4-4-21   Collection of Charges by Other Agencies
4-4-22   Multi-units, Single Service
§ 4-4-1 MANDATORY CHARGE FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   No water or sewer disposal service shall be furnished or rendered free
of charge to any person.
   (B)   In the event that any user fails to pay in full water or sewer charges
required by this section, or to conform in any other respects to this chapter,
the city shall give notice of the action or default on the part of the user. If
the account is not then paid or the default corrected the water and/or sewer
service to that user shall be cut off. Before any sewer service is
disconnected, the city will give ten (10) days written notice to the customer,
with copies forwarded to the county health department. At the expiration of the
ten (10) day period, or at the expiration of some agreed extension beyond ten
(10) days, the customer's service may be discontinued by the city at any time
without further notice. After the physical discontinuance of any sewerage
service, the division of sanitary engineering of the South Carolina Department
of Health and Environmental Control shall immediately be notified of the action
and the name and address of the customer.
      (1)   Water service may be refused or discontinued to any person, whether
tenant or owner, for failure to pay an unpaid water charge at any previous
place of residence or ownership. This rule shall in no way reduce the
responsibility of a property owner for water charge applicable to premises
owned.
      (2)   Water service may be refused to a property owner at any given
property in the event there are unpaid water charges at any other property of
which he is owner.
      (3)   Water service may be refused or discontinued to the residence of a
property owner when there is a failure to pay a water charge at any other
property of which he is the owner or for failure to make repairs on line.
      (4)   Any water service abandoned by the property owner shall be shut
"off" at the water main or curb box, at the option of the Utilities Director,
at the owner's expense.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
State Law Reference:
   Unauthorized use of water, S.C. Code §§ 5-31-1140 et seq.
§ 4-4-2 BILLING PRACTICE.
   (A)   A charge for water and sewer will be issued for each billing period.
The charge will normally be determined from the difference between two (2)
consecutive meter readings. When, for any reason, a meter reading has not been
obtained, the charge may be "estimated" from quantities of water used during
previous periods. Improved accessible property shall be billed the monthly
minimum for water and sewer service, whether or not the service is used and
regardless of whether the meter has been turned off.
   (B)   The city shall endeavor to give proper notice of water and sewer
service charges but by law cannot guarantee delivery of mail. Failure to
receive notice by mail shall not excuse customers from prompt payment of
charges. It shall be the established policy of the city to accept only total
and complete payments for charges billed.
§ 4-4-3 SEWER USER CHARGE.
   The city shall notify each user annually, generally in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the sewer rate and of that portion of their charge which is
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-4 MONTHLY CHARGES.
   (A)   The following shall be the schedule of monthly charges for sewer
services.
 
Sewer Rate Structure
                   Base Charge Per Customer Usage Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
Inside             $19.75                   $3.25
Outside            $39.47                   $6.40
Purdue Farms, Inc.                          $3.50 per 1,000 gallons (as of 4/1/
                                            15)
   
   (B)   The following shall be the schedule of monthly charges for water
services.
 
Water Rate Structure
        Base Charge Per Customer Usage Charge Per 1,000 Gallons
Inside  $5.78                    $2.31
Outside $11.57                   $4.62
 
(Ord. 10-09, passed 7-1-2010; Am. Ord. 15-08, passed 6-29-2015; Am. Ord. 16-10,
passed 6-30-2016; Am. Ord. 17-05, passed 6-12-2017; Am. Ord. 18-12, passed 7-9-
2018; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 7-1-2019; Am. Ord. 21-09, passed 6-28-2021; Am.
Ord. 23-12, passed 6-26-2023; Am. Ord. 24-10, passed 6-24-2024; Am. Ord. 25-04,
passed 6-9-2025)
§ 4-4-5 FEE FOR UNMETERED SEWER USERS.
   All customers of the city sewer system who are not users of a metered public
water supply shall be charged a flat rate equal to the existing charges for
three thousand (3,000) gallons of usage.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-6 WAIVER OF SEWER CHARGE.
   Customers of the system utilizing an unusually large amount of water on a
periodic basis for activities such as filling swimming pools may apply to the
city for a waiver of the sewer fee for this water since it is not contributed
to the sewer system. The city may grant waivers on a case by case basis and has
the authority to limit the number of waivers granted.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-7 WATER SALES TO CASUAL USERS IN CONTAINERS FURNISHED BY THE USERS.
   The city may sell water to a casual user in containers furnished by the user
at the rate of two dollars ($2) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. The user must
secure prior written permission from the Utilities Director. The person, firm,
or corporation receiving the water shall pay for the same to the city before
the water is secured.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-8 CONSTRUCTION WATER.
   Construction water will be furnished for each tap fee received at the
following rate of ten dollars ($10) minimum, four thousand (4,000) gallons per
minimum, and two dollars ($2) for each additional one thousand (1,000) gallons.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-9 NEW CONNECTIONS.
   (A)    Exemptions.  Churches are hereby exempt from the requirements to pay
a tap-in fee for each new water and/or sewer connection as outlined within this
ordinance.
   (B)   For each new water or sewer connection (excluding churches) the person
or firm applying for service shall pay a tap-in fee as follows:
      (1)   For each single-family residence, a fee of five hundred and fifty
dollars ($550).
      (2)   For each multi-family residence unit and other residential units
occupied by more than a single family, a fee of five hundred and fifty dollars
($550) for each unit.
      (3)   For all other types of construction (non-residential) the water or
sewer connection fee shall be based on the size of the water meter service
installed at the following rates:
Meter Size In-Town Out-of-Town
Meter Size     In-Town Out-of-Town
3/4 inch       $550    $675
1 inch         $650    $850
1-1/2 inch     $950    $1,250
2 inch         $1,200  $1,600
3 inch         $3,200  $3,700
4 inch         $4,500  $5,100
6 inch         $5,600  $6,300
Fire Sprinkler -0-     -0-
 
   (C)   Tap fees shall be due and payable by the applicant and collected by
the city at the time the building or zoning permit is issued to the applicant.
   (D)   Water and/or sewer service taps made of lines constructed by the city
(excluding replacement taps) will be subject to a four hundred dollars ($400)
construction cost in addition to all other appropriate tap fees.
   (E)   Upon payment of all applicable fees the city will provide water and
sewer service to the property line of all single-family dwellings within the
corporate limits of the city. The city will also provide water and sewer
service to the property line of all commercial businesses within the corporate
limits of the city for a three-fourths (3/4) inch meter at the cost of one
thousand one hundred dollars ($1,100) for water and/or at the cost of one
thousand one hundred dollars ($1,100) for sewer, for a one (1) inch meter at
the cost of one thousand three hundred dollars ($1,300) for water and/or at the
cost of one thousand three hundred dollars ($1,300) for sewer and a two (2)
inch meter at the cost of two thousand four hundred dollars ($2,400) for water
and/or at the cost of two thousand four hundred dollars ($2,400) for sewer
provided that the city shall not incur any associated costs and/or expenses
such as, but not limited to grinder pumps or the city having to cut into the
paved surface of a highway, street or road right-of-way. For all other types of
construction, water and sewer taps must be made by the owner's private
contractor.
   (F)   Each person or firm applying for a replacement tap shall pay a fee of
three hundred dollars ($300).
(Ord. 97-02, passed 2-10-1997; Am. Ord. 02-18, passed 10-14-2002; Am. Ord. 03-
26, passed 1-19-2004; Am. Ord. 10-15, passed 1-12-2011)
§ 4-4-10 BILL AND PAYMENT SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All meters shall be read each month and each bill shall be mailed at
the end of every month. Bills shall be for the amounts shown in §
4-4-4 and due prior to the 16th of each month. If bills are not paid prior to
the 16th, a ten percent (10%) penalty will be charged. If bills are not paid
prior to the first of the next month, a thirty-five dollar ($35) late charge
shall be imposed for all delinquent bills.
   (B)   When water, sewer and garbage services are billed out monthly and a
previous amount has not been paid, the total bill past due and current has to
be paid in full before cut-off date, which is five (5) working days following
the first day of the month, or services will be discontinued until the customer
has paid all bills, current and in arrears, with all penalties. No partial
payments shall be accepted.
(Ord. passed 5-1980; Am. Ord. 00-04, passed 4-10-2000; Am. Ord. 16-01, passed
2-8-2016)
§ 4-4-11 CHARGES A LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   All charges for water are assessed against the property to which the service
is rendered, and are a lien against such property, collectable in the same
manner as other taxes and assessments; and it shall be the duty of persons
purchasing property to ascertain if there are unpaid water charges standing
against the property, or the municipality reserves the right not to give
service to new owner until the lien is satisfied.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
State Law Reference:
   Lien on real estate for sewer charges, S.C. Code §§ 5-31-2040, 6-15-100
§ 4-4-12 PARTIAL PAYMENTS.
   In the event that a customer makes partial payments to the city, the city
reserves the right to credit that customer's accounts according to the
following priority:
      (A)   Arrears penalty;
      (B)   Household tax;
      (C)   Garbage fees;
      (D)   Sewer;
      (E)   Water.
(Ord of 10/14/85)
§ 4-4-13 OWNER MAY HAVE TENANT PAY FOR WATER AND SEWER.
   If the owner of any premises elects to have his tenant, occupant, or lessee
pay the water charges as they accrue, such occupant, tenant, or lessee for such
purpose acts as the agent of the owner and such owner shall not thereby be
relieved from the payment of any delinquencies that might occur, and the
property shall be subject to the lien provisions as provided in §
4-4-12.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-14 BAD CHECK CHARGES.
   A penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25) has been established for bad check
charges. This fee shall be imposed for all bad checks received by the city for
payment of any municipal bill or fee.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985; Am. Ord. 99-26, passed 1-18-2000)
Cross Reference:
   Bad checks charges, generally, Sec.
9-3-5
§ 4-4-15 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Each new customer obtaining a water and/or sewer connection shall make
a deposit as follows: Set-up fee, twenty-five dollars ($25) (non-refundable).
(Ord. 96-07, passed 3-11-1996)
      (1)   Definition of new customer shall mean when any water and/or sewer
account is turned on and given a new account number.
(Ord. 97-26, passed 1-12-1998)
   (B)   Each new customer obtaining a water and/or sewer connection shall make
a cash deposit to be held without earning interest in the amount of seventy-
five dollars ($75) as security to ensure payment of utility bills and said
deposit shall be returned to user upon presentation of deposit receipt within a
period of thirty (30) days after discontinuance of utility service. Should an
outstanding bill for water and service exist then that amount of outstanding
balance will be deducted from the security deposit with the remainder returned
to the depositor. This applies to all units with cut-off valves, otherwise the
owner will be responsible.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 4-4-16 NO REBATE FOR LEAKS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain piping and
plumbing fixtures in good condition. The amount of water registered by any
meter or otherwise shall be charged and paid for in full irrespective of
whether such water, after having been registered, was lost by leakage,
accident, or otherwise. If such unknown leaks occur, the Utilities Director
reserves the right to amend, alter, adjust, or fix special rates in such cases,
based upon the facts and circumstances of each case. In no case will rebates or
discounts be allowed because of leaks or faucets open continuously.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-17 OVERCHARGE AND UNDERCHARGE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If it is found that the city has directly or indirectly by any device
whatsoever, demanded, charged, collected or received from any customer a
greater or lesser compensation for any service rendered or to be rendered by
the city than that prescribed in the approval rate schedules of the city, or if
it is found that any customer has received or accepted any service from the
city for a compensation greater or lesser than that prescribed in such
schedules, or if, for any reason, billing error has resulted in greater or
lesser charge than that incurred by the customer for the actual service
rendered, then the method of adjustment for such overcharge or undercharge
shall be as provided by the following:
      (1)   If the overcharge or undercharge is the result of a fast or slow
meter, then the method of compensation shall be as follows:
         (a)   In case of a disputed account involving the accuracy of such
meter shall be tested upon request of the customer, as outlined in §
4-3-16.
         (b)   In the event that the meter so tested is found to have an error
in registration of more than three percent (3%), the bills will be increased or
decreased accordingly, but in no case shall such a correction be made for more
than sixty (60) days prior to determination of meter error.
      (2)   If the city has inadvertently overcharged a customer as a result of
a misapplied schedule, an error in reading the meter, a skipped meter reading
or any other human or machine error, except as provided in §
4-4-17(A)(1), the city shall, at the customer's option, credit or refund the
excess amount paid by that customer or credit the amount billed by the
following:
         (a)   If the interval during which the customer was overcharged can be
determined, then the city shall credit or refund the excess amount charged
during that entire interval provided that the applicable statute of limitations
shall not be exceeded.
         (b)   If the interval during which the customer was overcharged cannot
be determined, then the utility shall credit or refund the excess amount
charged during the six (6) month period preceding the date when the billing
error was discovered.
         (c)   If the exact usage and/or demand incurred by the customer during
the billing periods subject to adjustment cannot be determined, then the refund
shall be based on an appropriate estimated usage and/or demand.
      (3)   If the city has undercharged any customer as a result of a
misapplied schedule, an error in reading the meter, a skipped meter reading, or
any human or machine error, except as provided in §
4-4-17(A)(1), then the city may recover the deficient amount as provided as
follows:
         (a)   If the interval during which a customer was undercharged can be
determined, then the city may collect the deficient amount incurred during that
interval up to a maximum period of six (6) months.
         (b)   If the interval during which a customer was undercharged cannot
be determined, then the city may collect the deficient amount incurred during
the six (6) month period preceding the date when the billing error was
discovered by the city.
         (c)   The customer shall be allowed to pay the deficient amount in
equal installments added to the regular monthly bills, over the same number of
billing periods which occurred during the interval the customer was subject to
pay the deficient amount.
         (d)   If the usage and/or demand incurred by that person during the
billing periods subject to adjustment cannot be determined, then the adjustment
shall be based on estimated usage and/or demand. If a meter has ceased to
register, the adjustment shall be based on the average registration of the
meter over a six (6) month period when in order.
   (B)   Upon request by a customer, the city shall make a test of the meter
serving them provided that such tests need not be made more frequently than
once in twenty-four (24) months.
      (1)   The customer, or his representative, may be present when his meter
is tested.
      (2)   The report of the results of the test shall be made to the customer
within a reasonable time after the completion of the test, and a record of the
report, together with a complete record of each test, shall be kept on file at
the office of the city.
      (3)   In the event that the meter so tested is accurate within three
percent (3%), the customer shall pay to the city the reasonable costs for
testing the meter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-18 PRECEDENCE OF USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   The user charge system contained in this chapter shall take precedence over
any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts which are inconsistent with
the user charge system.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-19 SEPTIC TANK DUMPING.
   (A)   Septic tank haulers shall pay the city twenty dollars ($20) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons of waste dumped at the city waste treatment plant. The
septic tank company must also secure a city business license.
   (B)   In lieu of the above charge, septic tank haulers may contract with the
city for monthly service by placing a one hundred and fifty dollar ($150)
security deposit with the city and by paying a monthly service charge of one
hundred and fifty dollars ($150) in advance. This monthly rate will entitle the
hauler to deposit no more than fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons at the plant
each month. The City Manager may negotiate contracts for other volumes of
hauled waste on a pro-rated basis.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-20 UTILITY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   Any person who feels adjustments modification, or reinterpretation of these
regulations is necessary to equitably resolve a specific dispute or hardship
may appeal to a utility review committee composed of the Mayor, City Manager
and housing inspector. This committee shall review the facts of the case and
make final adjustment as deemed necessary.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1985)
§ 4-4-21 COLLECTION OF CHARGES BY OTHER AGENCIES.
   Should Council determine that it is to the advantage of the city to have
part or all utility charges collected by contract with another agency, the City
Manager shall have the authority to negotiate all necessary provisions of this
chapter. Such provisions shall be kept as nearly as possible to the existing
regulations and shall be reviewed by Council prior to implementation.
§ 4-4-22 MULTI-UNITS, SINGLE SERVICE.
   (A)   Two-family or Multi-family Units. In the case of a two-family or
multi-family unit or other premises occupied by more than one family living
independently of each other, and serviced by a single water meter or sewer
line, there shall be added to the rates as set out in §
4-4-4, an additional base cost per each monthly billing period per family unit,
beginning with the second unit.
   (B)   Other Occupied. In all other occupied buildings, except as set forth
in subsection (A) of this section and except one-family dwelling units serviced
by a single water meter or sewer line, there shall be added to the rates as set
forth in §
4-4-4 an additional base cost per each monthly billing period per each occupied
business within each occupied building location beginning with the second
business.
   (C)   Home Occupations. In the case of a home occupation no additional
charge shall be assessed to the rates as set out in §
4-4-4.
(Ord. CM-007, passed- -)
   (D)   All businesses for profit who use the city wastewater system are
required to purchase all water needs from the city if available, except those
who were already purchasing from other sources when the city's water supply
became available.
CHAPTER 5: DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN AND RESPONSE ORDINANCE
Section
4-5-1   Declaration of Purpose and Intent
4-5-2   Definition of Terms
4-5-3   Drought Management Plan
4-5-4   Drought Response Ordinance
*Note to the utility: The specific content of this ordinance or resolution
should be reviewed with the utility's general legal counsel and bond counsel if
the utility has any indebtedness outstanding to insure its enforce ability.
§ 4-5-1 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City of Dillon understands the fundamental need to make efficient use of
the limited and valuable water resource under its stewardship in order to
protect the public's health and safety and environmental integrity. The purpose
of this document is to establish a plan and procedures for managing water
demand and evaluating supply options before and during a drought-related water
shortage. The intent is to satisfy the requirements of the Drought Response Act
of 2000 (S.C. Code §§ 49-23-10, et seq., as amended) with the goal of achieving
the greatest public benefit from domestic water use, sanitation, and fire
protection and to provide water for other purposes in an equitable manner.
Therefore, the City of Dillon has adopted this Drought Management Plan and
Drought Response Ordinance that provide the policies and the authority to
fulfill this obligation. The Drought Management Plan outlines the framework by
which City of Dillon will internally prepare for water shortages. The ordinance
provides the regulations by which the City of Dillon will manage and control
its customer water usage during various levels of a drought.
(Am. Ord. 03-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 4-5-2 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purposes of this Plan and the accompanying ordinance, the following
definitions will apply:
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USE. Water use integral to the production of goods
and/or services by any establishment having profit as its primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of the
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using finished water owned or
supplied by the City of Dillon.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household purposes
such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or for cleaning a
residence, business, industry or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES. There are four (4) drought alert phases to be
determined by the Drought Response Committee for the State of South Carolina.
The four (4) phases are:
      (1)   Incipient drought;
      (2)   Moderate drought;
      (3)   Severe drought; and
      (4)   Extreme drought.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE MANAGEMENT AREAS. There are four (4) drought management
areas corresponding to the major river basins in South Carolina. The four (4)
areas are:
      (1)   West or Savannah;
      (2)   Central or Santee;
      (3)   Northeast or Pee Dee; and
      (4)   Southern or Ashepoo, Combahee, and Edisto.
   In order to prevent overly broad response to drought conditions, drought
response measures shall be considered within individual drought management
areas or within individual counties, as applicable.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE COMMITTEE. A Committee composed of state and local
representatives created for the purpose of coordinating responses to water
supply shortages within drought management areas and making recommendations for
action to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources and/or the
Governor. The Committee is composed of state agency representatives from the
South Carolina Emergency Management Division of the Office of the Adjutant
General, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, South
Carolina Department of Agriculture, South Carolina Forestry Commission, and
South Carolina Department of Natural Resources, as well as local Committees
representing counties, municipalities, public service districts, private water
suppliers, agriculture, industry, domestic users, regional councils of
government, commissions of public works, power generation facilities, special
purpose districts and Soil and Water Conservation Districts.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water used specifically for fire fighting, maintaining
in-stream flow requirements and to satisfy federal, state or local public
health and safety requirements.
   FINISHED WATER. Water distributed for use after treatment. The terms "water
use," "water user," and "water customer" refer to finished water use unless
otherwise defined.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water used by government, public and private
educational institutions, churches and places of worship, water utilities, and
organizations within the public domain.
   IRRIGATION WATER USE. Water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns, shrubs,
flowers, athletic fields, rights-of-way and medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Categories of water use other than essential water
use. Examples of non-essential water use include landscape irrigation and the
washing of buildings, parking lots, automobiles, etc.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT (REU). An equivalency unit defined to be equal
to one (1) single- family residence. City of Dillon’s allocated water capacity
equals two hundred and fifty (250) gallons per day per REU.
   SC DEPT. OF NATURAL RESOURCES.  The state agency with primacy to implement
the provisions of the Drought Response Act.
   WATER SUPPLY SHORTAGE. Lack of adequate, available water caused by drought
to meet normal demands.
(Am. Ord. 03-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 4-5-3 DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Introduction. To ensure that City of Dillon adequately manages its
water system during drought-related conditions, an organized plan is necessary
for system operation and reliability, proper communications, effective
coordination and ultimate allocation of water use. Prior planning will
compliment the City of Dillon ability to respond to drought conditions and to
enforce the related ordinance.
   (B)   Designation of Water System Drought Response Representative.
Administrating a drought plan requires the skills needed to undertake a
comprehensive public information program and the judgement required to deal
with equity issues arising from enforcement of a mandatory program. Someone who
has these skills will be selected by the water system to manage the water
system's program and serve as the principal contact for the news media as the
water system's Drought Response Representative. The drought response
representative for City of Dillon is Glen Wagner, City Manager, PO Box 431,
Dillon, SC 29536, Phone# 843-774-0040.
   (C)   Description of Water System Layout, Water Sources, Capacities and
Yields. The City of Dillon is located in the Pee Dee Drought Response
Management Area of South Carolina. The system serves 3,358 customers
(residential-2,593, commercial-765) in and around the Dillon city limits. The
system consists of four (4) wells and treatment sites with back-up generators,
three (3) elevated storage tanks with a total capacity of six hundred and
twenty five thousand (625,000) gallons, three (3) ground storage reservoirs
with a total capacity of four hundred and thirty thousand (430,000) gallons,
and water line sizes ranging from two (2) inches to sixteen (16) inches in
diameter. The current SCDHEC maximum total permitted capacity is 2.304 mgd,
which is based on all four (4) wells pumping sixteen (16) hours per day. The
water supply sources available to the system are the Black Creek and Middendorf
aquifers.
   (D)   Identification of Water System Specific Drought or Water Shortage
Indicators. Operators of every water system must develop historical trends that
are valuable indicators of a system's ability to meet demand when demand begins
to outpace supply. The City of Dillon has developed triggers for use during
drought or demand water shortages that describe when specific phases of the
Drought Response Ordinance are implemented. The system triggers are as follows:
      (1)   Moderate Drought Phase.
         Average daily use greater than 1.4 mgd for thirty (30) consecutive
days
      (2)   Severe Drought Phase.
         Average daily use greater than 1.6 mgd for fourteen (14) consecutive
days
      (3)   Extreme Drought Phase.
         Average daily use greater than 1.8 mgd for seven (7) consecutive days
   (E)   Cooperative Agreements and Alternative Water Supply Sources.
Successful drought management requires a comprehensive program by the water
utility. In many situations administrative agreements are required with other
agencies to fully implement the Plan. Agreements with other water purveyors may
be necessary for alternative water supply sources. Other agreements that
strengthen conservation efforts by large users may be necessary. The City of
Dillon identifies the following agreements that are in place to facilitate the
implementation of this Plan: Trico Water Company is tied into the City of
Dillon water system at two (2) different locations and could be used as a
possible alternative source of water in the event of an emergency water
shortage. Agreements that are being negotiated or considered with other
entities are: NONE.
   (F)   Description of Pre-Drought Planning Efforts. Before the occurrence of
a water supply shortage and the need to implement the emergency provisions of
the ordinance, it is important that certain pre-response measures be taken with
the aim of conserving the system's source water, as well as the water
distributed to the customer. In regards to the conservation measures listed
below, the City of Dillon has taken the following actions:
      (1)   Identification of all major water users of the system: Dillon Yarn,
Perdue Hatchery, Vesuvius, Wix, Mohawk, Davids of Dillon, Saint Eugene
Hospital.
      (2)   Identification of those users with whom there are conservation
agreements: NONE. The City of Dillon already has an existing ordinance which
covers all of these drought conditions. This new ordinance will replace the
existing ordinance.
      (3)   A vigorous public education program is critical for achieving
substantial water use reductions. An effective public outreach program will
keep the public informed about the water supply situation, what actions will
mitigate drought emergency problems, and how well the public is doing in terms
of meeting the program goals. Keeping the public involved, informed, and
participating in the decision-making process is key to implementing an
effective Drought Management Plan. Provide a description of your utility's
efforts to develop an effective drought-related public education program: The
City of Dillon attempts to educate its users about the necessity of water
conservation through its annual Consumer Confidence Report. The local
newspaper, as well as any other available means of the media, will be used as
deemed necessary in the event of drought conditions.
   (G)   Description of Capital Planning and Investment for System Reliability
and Demand Forecasting.  Water utilities routinely find that capital
improvements to the system strongly enhance their ability to get through times
of drought. It is important that every water utility aggressively plan and
build for future needs. The utility must continue to provide for system
operation flexibility, improved pumping and storage capacity and new
technologies to meet the demands of tomorrow. Describe the utility's capital
improvement program and how past efforts have enhanced your system's ability to
meet demand during drought conditions: The City of Dillon is in the final
permitting stages of a new seven hundred (700) gpm well with treatment, a five
hundred thousand (500,000) gallon elevated storage tank, and over six thousand
(6,000) feet of water mains to tie new well to existing water system. This will
also help increase pressure throughout the entire system.
(Am. Ord. 03-17, passed 8-11-2003)
§ 4-5-4 DROUGHT RESPONSE ORDINANCE.
*Note to the utility: The specific content of this ordinance or resolution
should be reviewed with the utility's general legal counsel and bond counsel if
the utility has any indebtedness outstanding to insure its enforce ability.
   (A)   Declaration of Policy and Authority.
      (1)   The objective of this Drought Response Ordinance is to establish
authority, policy and procedure by which the City of Dillon will take the
proper actions to manage water demand during a drought-related shortage. The
ordinance satisfies the requirements of the Drought Response Act of 2000 and
has the goal of achieving the greatest public benefit from limited supplies of
water needed for domestic water use, sanitation, and fire protection and of
allocating water for other purposes in an equitable manner.
      (2)   This ordinance outlines the actions to be taken for the
conservation of water supplied by the City of Dillon. These actions are
directed both towards an overall reduction in water usage and the optimization
of supply.
      (3)   To satisfy these goals, the City of Dillon hereby adopts the
following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of
water. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary for the protection of public
health, safety and welfare and shall take effect upon its adoption by the City
of Dillon.
      (4)   If it becomes necessary to conserve water in its service area due
to drought, the City of Dillon is authorized to issue a proclamation (a
"Proclamation") that existing conditions prevent fulfillment of the usual
water-use demands. The Proclamation is an attempt to prevent depleting the
water supply to the extent that water-use for human consumption, sanitation,
fire protection, and other essential needs becomes endangered.
      (5)   Immediately upon issuance of such a Proclamation, regulations and
restrictions set forth under this ordinance shall become effective and remain
in effect until the water supply shortage has ended and the Proclamation
rescinded.
      (6)   Water uses that are regulated or prohibited under this ordinance
are considered to be non-essential and continuation of such uses during times
of water supply shortages is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting
the offender(s) to penalties.
      (7)   The Drought Management Plan as outlined in Sections
4-5-1 through
4-5-3 is hereby approved.
   (B)   Moderate Drought Phase.  Upon notification by the Drought Response
Committee that a moderate drought condition is present and is expected to
persist and/or upon determination by the City of Dillon that a moderate water
supply shortage exists based on trigger levels, the City of Dillon will seek
voluntary reductions from its customers in the use of water for all purposes
and voluntary reductions on using water during certain peak water demand
periods. Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of
twenty percent (20%) in residential water use and fifteen percent (15%) in
other water uses such as commercial, industrial, institutional and irrigation;
and a reduction in overall water use of fifteen percent (15%). To accomplish
this, the City of Dillon will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a Proclamation to be released to local media, City of
Dillon's customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources
Drought Information Center that moderate drought conditions are present.
      (2)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
voluntary conservation measures that the customers are requested to follow
during moderate drought conditions, including:
         (a)   Reduce residential water use to sixty-five (65) gallons per
person per day and a maximum of two hundred (200) gallons per household per
day;
         (b)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
         (c)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (d)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
         (e)   Eliminate the domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, etc.;
         (f)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
         (g)   Reduce watering of lawns, plants, trees, gardens, shrubbery and
flora on private or public property to the minimum necessary. Encourage outdoor
watering to be done during off-peak hours.
         (h)   Reduce the amount of water obtained from fire hydrants for
construction purposes, fire drills or for any purpose other than fire-fighting
or flushing necessary to maintain water quality; and
         (i)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
            3.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten
(10) day notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system.
      (4)   Cease to install new irrigation taps on the water system.
      (5)   Continue to encourage and educate customers to comply with
voluntary water conservation.
   (C)   Severe Drought. Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee
that a severe drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or
upon determination by the City of Dillon that a severe water supply shortage
exists based on trigger levels, City of Dillon will seek voluntary reduction in
the use of water for all purposes and mandatory restrictions on non-essential
usage and restrictions on times when certain water usage is allowed.
Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of twenty-
five percent (25%) in residential water use, twenty percent (20%) in all other
water use categories, and a reduction in overall water use of twenty percent
(20%). To accomplish these goals, the City of Dillon will take the following
actions:
      (1)   Issue a Proclamation to be released to the local media, City of
Dillon's customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources
Drought Information Center that severe drought conditions are present.
      (2)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
voluntary conservation measures and mandatory restrictions to be placed on the
use of water supplied by the utility, including:
         (a)   Voluntary reduction of residential water use by the utility's
customers to fifty-five (55) gallons per person per day and a maximum of one
hundred and seventy (170) gallons per household or REU per day.
         (b)   Control landscape irrigation by the utility's customers by
staggering watering times.
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities including:
            1.    Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   Eliminate domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, etc.;
            5   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools;
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills
or any purpose other than fire-fighting or flushing necessary to maintain water
quality; and
         (d)   Limit use of water by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten
(10) day notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system.
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system.
      (5)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested.
      (6)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts and
emphasize the penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions.
      (7)   Provide written notification monthly to the South Carolina
Department of Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the
success of the voluntary and mandatory restrictions.
   (D)   Extreme Drought. Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee
that an extreme drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or
upon determination by the City of Dillon that an extreme water supply shortage
exists based on the trigger levels, the City of Dillon will impose mandatory
restrictions in the use of water for all purposes and on the times when certain
water usage is allowed. Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve
a reduction of thirty percent (30%) in residential water use, twenty-five
percent (25%) in all other categories of water uses and a reduction in overall
water use of twenty-five percent (25%). To accomplish these goals, the City of
Dillon will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a Proclamation to be released to the local media, the City of
Dillon customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources
Drought Information Center that extreme drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
mandatory restrictions to be placed on the use of water supplied by the
utility, including:
         (a)   Limiting residential water use to forty-five (45) gallons per
person per day and a maximum of one hundred and fifty (150) gallons per
household or REU per day.
         (b)   Eliminate landscape irrigation by the utility's customers.
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   No domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, etc.;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds, and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools;
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire
drills, or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing necessary to
maintain water quality; and
         (d)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of their
grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten
(10) day notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production, or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system.
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system.
      (5)   Outline other conservation measures, examples are:
         (a)   Place a moratorium on the issuance of all new water service
connections and contracts for all new water main extensions. As part of the
public information process, provide notice to developers of the moratorium;
         (b)   Encourage all residential water customers to voluntarily reduce
overall monthly water usage to seventy percent (70%) of the customer's monthly
average. If voluntary reduction of usage is not successful, the City of Dillon
may, at its option, implement the following excessive use rate schedule for
water:
 
Tier I   0 - 4,000 gallons/REU     regular rate
Tier II  4,001 - 6,000 gallons/REU 2 times regular rate
Tier III Over 6,000 gallons/REU    3 times regular rate
 
         (c)   Impose a drought surcharge per thousand (1,000) gallons of water
that increases with higher usage. The general principle behind the drought
surcharge is that the fee is imposed on water use in excess of ten percent
(10%) of normal monthly use. The drought surcharge is a temporary fee imposed
during the current water supply shortage and is not a cost-based rate. The
drought surcharge is temporary and will be terminated at such time as the City
of Dillon determines the water supply is above the trigger levels.
         (d)   If the conservation measures of the ordinance or plan prove
inadequate to mitigate the effects of the drought conditions or water supply
availability, the City of Dillon may take additional actions including, but not
limited to:
            1.   Decreasing the gallon/REU limits in the different tiers; and
            2.   Reduction of water system pressure as needed.
      (6)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested.
      (7)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts as
conducted under the moderate and severe drought phase and emphasize the
penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions.
      (8)   Provide written notification monthly to the South Carolina
Department of Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the
success of the mandatory restrictions.
   (E)   Rationing.
      If a drought threatens the protection of public health and safety, the
City of Dillon is hereby authorized to ration water.
   (F)   Enforcement of Restrictions.
      If any customer of the City of Dillon fails to comply with the mandatory
water use restrictions of this ordinance, the customer shall be given a written
notice of such failure to comply, which cites the date of said violation, and
shall be assessed surcharges in accordance with the following schedule:
 
First violation  $25 surcharge shall be added to the customer's water bill;
Second violation An additional $50 surcharge shall be added to the customer's
                 water bill;
                 The customer's water service shall be terminated and restored
Third violation  only after payment of a surcharge of $100 in addition to all
                 previously assessed surcharges.
 
      Law enforcement agencies and other authorized agencies or designated
employees in the respective jurisdiction which is being supplied water by the
City of Dillon shall diligently enforce the provisions of the Drought Response
Ordinance.
   (G)   Variances.
      (1)   Customers, who in their belief are unable to comply with the
mandatory water use restrictions of this Drought Response Ordinance, may
petition for a variance from restrictions by filing a petition with the City of
Dillon within ten (10) working days after the issuance of the Proclamation
requiring water use restrictions. All petitions for variance shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   Name and address of the petitioner;
         (b)   Purpose of water usage;
         (c)   Special provision from which the petitioner is requesting
relief,
         (d)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration
adversely affects the petitioner;
         (e)   Description of the relief desired;
         (f)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
         (g)   Economic value of the water use;
         (h)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner
complies with the ordinance;
         (i)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
         (j)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from
which the variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
         (k)   Other information as needed.
      (2)   In order for the variance to be granted, the petitioner must
demonstrate clearly that compliance with the ordinance cannot be technically
accomplished during the duration of the water supply shortage without having an
adverse impact upon the best interests of the community. The City of Dillon is
authorized to grant the request for variance.
      (3)   In addition, the City of Dillon is authorized to grant temporary
variances for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under the ordinance if
it is determined that failure to grant such variances could cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting health, sanitation and fire protection for the
public. No such variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any
violation of this ordinance occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
Variances granted by the City of Dillon shall include a timetable for
compliance and shall expire when the water supply shortage no longer exists,
unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
   (H)   Status of the Ordinance.
      (1)   If any portion of this ordinance is held to be unconstitutional for
any reason, the remaining portions of the Drought Response Ordinance shall not
be affected.
      (2)   The provisions of this ordinance shall prevail and control in the
event of any inconsistency between this ordinance and other rules and
regulations of the City of Dillon.
      (3)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to invalidate or be
interpreted in a manner inconsistent with any covenants now in effect and given
as security to holders of bonds secured by revenues of the system.
(Am. Ord. 03-17, passed 8-11-2003)
CHAPTER 6: WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT AND DISCHARGE
Section
4-6-1   Purpose and Policy
4-6-2   Administration
4-6-3   Abbreviations
4-6-4   Definitions
4-6-5   Prohibited Discharge Standards
4-6-6   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
4-6-7   State Pretreatment Standards
4-6-8   Local Limits
4-6-9   Right of Revision
4-6-10   Dilution
4-6-11   Pretreatment Facilities
4-6-12   Additional Pretreatment Measures
4-6-13   Accidental Discharge/Slug Control Plans
4-6-14   Hauled Wastewater
4-6-15   Wastewater Analysis
4-6-16   Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement
4-6-17   Wastewater Discharge Permitting; Existing Connections
4-6-18   Wastewater Discharge Permitting; New Connections
4-6-19   Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents
4-6-20   Application Signatories and Certification
4-6-21   Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions
4-6-22   Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
4-6-23   Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
4-6-24   Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals
4-6-25   Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification
4-6-26   Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
4-6-27   Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
4-6-28   Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance
4-6-29   Regulation of Waste Received from Other Jurisdictions
4-6-30   Baseline Monitoring Reports
4-6-31   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports
4-6-32   Reports on Compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards Deadline
4-6-33   Periodic Compliance Reports
4-6-34   Reports of Changed Conditions
4-6-35   Reports of Potential Problems
4-6-36   Reports of Unpermitted Users
4-6-37   Notice of Violation/Repeat Sampling and Reporting
4-6-38   Notification of the Discharge of Hazardous Waste
4-6-39   Analytical Requirements
4-6-40   Sample Collection
4-6-41   Timing
4-6-42   Record Keeping
4-6-43   Right of Entry: Inspection and Sampling
4-6-44   Search Warrants
4-6-45   Confidential Information
4-6-46   Publication of Users in Significant Noncompliance
4-6-47   Notification of Violation
4-6-48   Consent Orders
4-6-49   Show Cause Hearings
4-6-50   Compliance Orders
4-6-51   Cease and Desist Orders
4-6-52   Administrative Fines
4-6-53   Emergency Suspensions
4-6-54   Termination of Discharge
4-6-55   Injunctive Relief
4-6-56   Civil Penalties
4-6-57   Criminal Prosecution
4-6-58   Remedies Nonexclusive
4-6-59   Performance Bonds
4-6-60   Water Supply Severance
4-6-61   Contractor Listing
4-6-62   Upset
4-6-63   Prohibited Discharge Standards
4-6-64   Bypass
4-6-65   Wastewater Treatment Rates
4-6-66   Pretreatment Charges and Fees
4-6-67   Enforcement Response Plan
§ 4-6-1 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the Publicly
Owned Treatment Works for the City of Dillon and enables the city to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. pt.
403). The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will pass through the Publicly Owned Treatment Works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
      (3)   To protect both Publicly Owned Treatment Works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the Publicly Owned Treatment Works is
subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the Publicly Owned Treatment
Works. The ordinance authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits;
provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities; establishes
administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-2 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Administrator shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this ordinance. Any powers granted to
or duties imposed upon the Administrator may be delegated by the Administrator
to other city personnel.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-3 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this ordinance, shall have the
designated meanings:
      BOD. Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
      CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
      COD. Chemical Oxygen Demand.
      EPA. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
      gpd.  gallons per day.
      mg/l.  milligrams per liter.
      NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
      TSS. Total Suspended Solids.
      U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-4 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this ordinance, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
      ACT or THE ACT means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Pub. L. No.
92-500, as now or hereafter amended, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY means the State of South Carolina, Department of
Health and Environmental Control. (DHEC)
      ADMINISTRATOR means the Water and Sewer Administrator of this city or his
duly appointed deputy, agent or representative.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
         (1)   If the user is a corporation:
            (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of
the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person
who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation;
or
            (b)   The manager of one (1) or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility, including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiating and directing other comprehensive measures to
assure long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and
regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions
taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual wastewater
discharge permit requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been
assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
         (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
         (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility:
a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
         (4)   The individuals described in paragraphs 1 through 3, above, may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates, or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the city.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs mean schedules of activities,
prohibitions or practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to implement the prohibitions listed in §
4-6-5. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices
to control plant site runoff, spillage, leaks or waste disposal, or drainage
from raw materials storage.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD means the quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five (5) days at 20 degrees Celsius expressed in terms of
concentration (e.g., milligrams per liter) and/or weight (pounds).
      CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD means any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with §§  307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to
a specific category of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N,
pts. 405-471.
      CITY means the City of Dillon, South Carolina.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT means BOD, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, and such additional pollutants as are now or may be in the future
specified and controlled in this city’s NPDES permit for its wastewater
treatment works where said works have been designed and used to reduce or
remove such pollutants.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY means the City of Dillon.
      COOLING WATER means the water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, during which the only pollutant added
to the water is heat.
      DOMESTIC WASTES means liquid wastes (a) from non-commercial preparation
cooking and handling of food; or (b) containing human excrement and similar
matter from the sanitary conveniences of dwelling, commercial buildings,
industrial facilities, and institutions.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA means the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division
Director, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      EXISTING SOURCE means any source of discharge, the construction or
operation of which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed
categorical pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if
the standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
      EQUALIZATION means a process whereby varying (non-uniform) wastewater
discharge flows are balanced off into a uniform wastewater discharge flow.
      GARBAGE means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
      GRAB SAMPLE means a sample which is taken from a waste stream without
regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed
fifteen (15) minutes.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT means any pollutant which is not a “compatible
pollutant” as defined in this section.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE means the introduction of pollutants into
the POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of
the Act.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER means the liquid wastes resulting from the
processes employed in industrial, manufacturing, trade or business
establishments, as distinct from domestic wastes.
      INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT means the maximum
concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent
of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
      INTERFERENCE means a discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the City of Dillon’s NPDES permit or of
the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
      MEDICAL WASTE means isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD (See
Categorical Pretreatment Standard or Categorical Standard).
      NEW SOURCE means any building, structure, facility, or installation from
which there is, or may be, a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307
(c) (33 U.S.C. 1317) Categorical Pretreatment Standard which will be applicable
to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with
that section.
NEW SOURCE applies to the following:
         (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation which is
constructed at a site where no other source is located.
         (2)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation which totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source.
         (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site.
         (4)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
which does not create a new building, structure, facility, or installation
meeting the criteria of subparagraphs (19)(b) or (19)(c) but otherwise alters,
replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this paragraph commenced if the
owner or operator has:
         (1)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation,
or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
         (2)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this paragraph.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER . Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product,
or finished product.
      PASS THROUGH means a pollutant which exits the POTW into waters of the
State of South Carolina in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW NPDES permit,(including an increase in
the magnitude or duration of a violation).
      PERSON means any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
      pH means a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed
in standard units.
      POLLUTANT means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
      PRETREATMENT The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS means any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS  Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local
limits.
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES means absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in Section 2 of this ordinance.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW means a “treatment works,” as
defined by Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned by the City
of Dillon. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the
collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant.
      SEPTIC TANK WASTE means any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
      SEWAGE shall mean a combination of water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER means any user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards or any user whose flow equals or exceeds (a) twenty-five
thousand (25,000) gallons per day: or (b) five percent (5%) of the average dry
weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the treatment system; or (c) is
designated as such by the city on the basis that the industrial user has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the city’s wastewater system
operation or for violating any pretreatment requirements or pretreatment
standards.
      The city may determine, on its own initiative or in response to a
petition received from an industrial user, that an industrial user meeting the
criteria of subparagraph (b) or (c) has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the city’s wastewater system operation or for violating any
Pretreatment Requirements or Pretreatment Standards, and that such industrial
user is not a significant industrial user.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE means an industrial user’s violation meets one
(1) or more of the following:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements
taken for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period
exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement,
including Instantaneous Limits;
         (b)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements
for each pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equal or
exceed the product of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement,
including Instantaneous Limits, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease; and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement
(daily maximum, long-term average, Instantaneous Limit or narrative standard)
that the city determines has caused, along or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass through (including endangering the health of
POTW personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its authority under Section 3 of this chapter to halt or
prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet within thirty (30) days after the schedule date,
a compliance schedule milestone contained in written notification for starting
construction, completing construction or attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide, within forty-five (45) days after the due
date, required reports;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of the Best Management Practices, which the city determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the industrial pretreatment
program.
      SLUG LOAD or SLUG shall mean any discharge of water, sewage or industrial
waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow
exceeds, for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than
five (5) times the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration occurring during
normal operation. Also, could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in Section 2.1 of this ordinance.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE means a classification
pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United
States Office of Management and Budget.
      STORM WATER means any flow occurring during or immediately following any
form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including
snow melt.
      SUPERINTENDENT means the person designated by the city to supervise the
operation of any POTW owned by the city and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this ordinance, or a duly authorized representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall mean solids that either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids which are removable by
laboratory filtering and is further defined in standard methods.
      USER or INDUSTRIAL USER means any person who discharges, causes or
permits the discharge of wastewater(s) into the city’s wastewater treatment
system either directly or indirectly through wastewater system of others.
      WASTEWATER means the liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic
wastes from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities,
and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water
that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or
permitted to enter the city’s treatment works.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT means that portion of the
POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER is water not containing any pollutants limited or
prohibited by the effluent standards in effect, or water whose discharge will
not cause any violation of receiving water quality standards.
      USER CLASSIFICATION means a classification of user based on the 1972 (or
subsequent) edition of the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Manual
prepared by the Office of Management and Budget.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM means any devices, facilities, structures,
equipment or works owned or used by the city for the purpose of the
transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of industrial and
domestic wastes, or necessary to recycle or reuse water at the most economical
cost over the estimated life of the system including intercepting sewers,
outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment,
and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-5 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General Prohibitions. No person shall discharge or deposit or cause or
allow to be discharged or deposited into the wastewater treatment system any
pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference. These
general prohibitions apply to all users whether or not they are subject to
categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific Prohibitions. No person shall discharge or deposit or cause
or allow to be discharged or deposited into the wastewater treatment system the
following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with closed-cup flashpoint of less
than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 12.0 depending on
discharge amount requested, or otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to
the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will or may cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer, or otherwise interfere with the proper
operation of the wastewater treatment system. Prohibited materials include, but
are not limited to, grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole food, feathers,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood,
plastic, tar, asphalt residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, and similar substances;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 degrees Fahrenheit
(60 degrees Celsius), or which will inhibit biological activity in the
treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater which
causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed
104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius);
      (6)   Oil and grease concentrations or amounts from industrial facilities
containing floatable fats, wax, grease or oils, petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable
cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause
interference or pass through but in no case in excess of 100 mg/l;
      (7)   Any water or waste containing substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit or 0 and
65 degrees Celsius;
      (8)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
fumes or substances in amounts exceeding standards promulgated by the
Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to
Section 307(a) of the Act, and chemical elements or compounds, phenols or other
taste or odor-producing substances which are not susceptible to treatment or
which may interfere with the biological processes or efficiency of the
treatment system, or that will pass through the system in a quantity that may
cause acute worker health and safety problems;
      (9)   Trucked or hauled pollutants;
      (10)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of
creating a public nuisance, causing acute worker health and safety problems,
creating hazard to life, or may be sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance or repair;
      (11)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit, or color limits
established by the city;
      (12)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
that they do not comply with regulations or orders issued by the appropriate
authority having control over their use and which will or may cause damage or
hazards to the sewerage facilities or personnel operating the system;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically authorized by the
Administrator;
      (14)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (15)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Administrator in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (16)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (17)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (18)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (19)   Liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
sewerage facilities or to the operation of the system. At no time shall two
successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge
into the sewer system, be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading
over ten percent (10%) of the Lower Explosive Limit (L.E.L.) of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (20)   Wastewaters at a flow rate or containing such concentrations or
quantities of pollutants that exceeds for any time period longer than fifteen
(15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty-four (24) hour
concentration, quantities or flow during normal operation and that would cause
a treatment process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency; and
      (21)   Any waste which will cause corrosion or deterioration of the
treatment system. All wastes discharged directly or indirectly through
wastewater system owned by others to the city wastewater system must have a pH
value in the range of (6) to (9) standard units. Prohibited materials include,
but are not limited to, acids, sulfides, concentrated chloride and fluoride
compounds and substances which will react with water to form acidic products.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Ord. 21-05, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 4-6-6 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N,
pts. 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Administrator may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Administrator
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40
C.F.R. 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.15.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-7 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   State pretreatment standards located at R.61-9.403 are hereby incorporated.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-8 LOCAL LIMITS.
   The city has the authority to establish local limits. Currently the city has
not developed any local limits, but in the event the city develops local
limits, the city may impose mass limitations in addition to concentration-based
limits. The city may develop BMPs by ordinance or in individual wastewater
discharge permits to implement any local limits. If the city develops local
limits, they will be included in the city’s industrial pretreatment program.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-9 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in wastewater
discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to
the POTW.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-10 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Administrator may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-11 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
ordinance and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in Section 2.1 of this
ordinance within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the
Administrator, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Administrator for review, and shall be acceptable to the
Administrator before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-12 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)    Whenever deemed necessary the Administrator may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
   (B)   The Administrator may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Administrator, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Administrator and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at their expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-13 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   At least once, the Administrator shall evaluate whether each significant
industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug control plan. The
Administrator may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement such a plan. Alternatively, the Administrator may develop such a plan
for any user. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Administrator of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by Section 6.6 of this ordinance; and
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-14 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   Septic tank waste may not be introduced into the POTW.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 4-6-15 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Administrator, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within fifteen (15) days of the
request. The Administrator is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and
may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-16 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the
Administrator, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to Section 4.3 of this ordinance may continue to
discharge for the time period specified therein.
   (B)   The Administrator may require other users to obtain wastewater
discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this ordinance.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Sections 10 through
12 of this ordinance. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve
a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and
local law.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-17 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
ordinance and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall,
within thirty (30) days after said date, apply to the Administrator for a
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with Section 4.5 of this ordinance,
and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after sixty
(60) days of the effective date of this ordinance except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Administrator.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-18 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with Section 4.5 of this ordinance,
must be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-19 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit a
permit application. The Administrator may require all users to submit as part
of an application the following information:
   (A)   All information required by Section 6.1(B) of this ordinance;
   (B)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
   (C)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
   (D)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate
of production;
   (E)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
   (F)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to
show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
   (G)   Time and duration of discharges; and
   (H)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Administrator
to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-20 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
      "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-21 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Administrator will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a
complete wastewater discharge permit application, the Administrator will
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The
Administrator may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-22 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five (5)
years, at the discretion of the Administrator. Each wastewater discharge permit
will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-23 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   A wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Administrator to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   (1)    Wastewater discharge permits are nontransferable without prior
notification to the city in accordance with Section 5.5 of this ordinance.
      (2)    Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards; self-monitoring, sampling, reporting,
notification, and record-keeping requirements. Including an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state, and local law; and a statement of applicable
civil and criminal penalties for violation of pretreatment standards and
requirements, and any applicable compliance schedule. Such schedule may not
extend the time for compliance beyond that required by applicable federal,
state, or local law.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans and requirements to control Slug Discharge, if determined by the
city to be necessary, or other special conditions, including management
practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or
nonroutine discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Administrator to
ensure compliance with this ordinance, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-24 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS.
   The Administrator shall provide public notice of the issuance of a
wastewater discharge permit. Any person, including the user, may petition the
Administrator to reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within
thirty (30) days of notice of its issuance.
   (A)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (B)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater
discharge permit.
   (C)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   (D)   If the Administrator fails to act within thirty (30) days, a request
for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
wastewater discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not
to modify a wastewater discharge permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
   (E)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
Circuit Court of South Carolina within ninety (90) days.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-25 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   The Administrator may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city’s POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.13;
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater discharge
permit; or
   (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-26 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or operator
only if the permittee gives at least ninety (90) days advance notice to the
Administrator and the Administrator approves the wastewater discharge permit
transfer. The notice to the Administrator must include a written certification
by the new owner or operator which:
   (A)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes;
   (B)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
   (C)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-27 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Administrator may revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to notify the Administrator of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
   (B)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Administrator of changed
conditions pursuant to Section 6.5 of this ordinance;
   (C)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   (D)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
   (E)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   (F)   Refusing to allow the Administrator timely access to the facility
premises and records;
   (G)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   (H)   Failure to pay fines;
   (I)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   (J)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   (K)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
   (L)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
   (M)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this ordinance.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of operations
or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits issued to a
particular user are void upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit
to that user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-28 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with Section 4.5 of this ordinance, a minimum of one
hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the user's existing
wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-29 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Administrator shall enter into an
intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by paragraph (A), above,
the Administrator shall request the following information from the contributing
municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Administrator may deem necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by paragraph (A), above,
shall contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance and comply with the local limits set by the City of Dillon. The
requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be revised as
necessary to reflect changes made to the city’s ordinance or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including wastewater discharge permit issuance, inspection and
sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing municipality;
which of these activities will be conducted by the Administrator; and which of
these activities will be conducted jointly by the contributing municipality and
the Administrator;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Administrator with access to all information that the contributing municipality
obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Administrator access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing municipality's jurisdictional boundaries
for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary
by the Administrator; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-30 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on
a category determination under 40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later,
existing categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Administrator a report which contains the
information listed in paragraph (B), below. At least ninety (90) days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the Administrator a report which contains the
information listed in paragraph (B), below. A new source shall report the
method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying Information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of Operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of Pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Administrator, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
Section 6.10 of this ordinance.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in Section 6.11 of this ordinance.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in Section 6.2 of this ordinance.
      (8)   Signature and Certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
4-6-20 of this ordinance.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-31 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
Section 6.1(B)(7) of this ordinance:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Administrator no later
than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final date
of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the Administrator.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-32 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
DEADLINE.
   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the Administrator a report containing the information described in Section 6.1
(B)(4-6) of this ordinance. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section 4.6 of this
ordinance.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-33 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Administrator, but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
In cases where the Pretreatment Standard requires compliance with a Best
Management Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user must
submit documentation required by the city, or the Pretreatment Standard
necessary to determine the compliance status of the user. All periodic
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section 4.6
of this ordinance.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Administrator,
using the procedures prescribed in Section 6.11 of this ordinance, the results
of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-34 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Administrator of any planned significant changes
to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least ninety (90) days before the change.
   (A)   The Administrator may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under Section 4.5 of
this ordinance.
   (B)   The Administrator may issue a wastewater discharge permit under
Section 4.7 of this ordinance or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit
under Section 5.4 of this ordinance in response to changed conditions or
anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of twenty percent (20%) or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-35 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the Administrator
of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
   (B)   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Administrator, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this ordinance.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place, advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in paragraph (A), above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the city
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a Slug
Discharge.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-36 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the Administrator as the Administrator may require.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-37 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/ REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Administrator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Administrator within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not required to resample if
the Administrator monitors at the user's facility at least once a month, or if
the Administrator samples between the user's initial sampling and when the user
receives the results of this sampling.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-38 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. pt. 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than
one hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the waste stream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months. All
notifications must take place no later than one hundred and eighty (180) days
after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under Section 6.5 of this ordinance.
The notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants
already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under
the self-monitoring requirements of Section(s) 6.1, 6.3, and 6.4 of this
ordinance.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (A), above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen (15)
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any
quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R 261.30(d) and
261.33(e), requires a one (1) time notification. Subsequent months during which
the user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not
require additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Administrator, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within
ninety (90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this ordinance, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-39 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. pt. 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-40 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in Section (B) and (C), below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Administrator may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum
of four (4) grab samples, where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. pt.
136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a
twenty-four (24) hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and
grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety
(90) day compliance reports, a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used
for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic
compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for
facilities for which historical sampling area available, the city may authorize
a lower minimum. For the reports required by §
4-6-33, the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples
necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-41 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-42 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this ordinance shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this ordinance and
any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and
documentation associated with Best Management Practices. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name(s) of the
person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed
the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of
such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least
three (3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration
of any litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Administrator.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-43 RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Administrator shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this ordinance
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall
allow the Administrator ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Administrator will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Administrator shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (C)   The Administrator may require the user to install monitoring equipment
as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at
its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Administrator and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Administrator access to the user's
premises shall be a violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-44 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Administrator has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this ordinance, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program of the city designed to verify compliance with this ordinance or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the Administrator may seek issuance
of a search warrant from the Circuit Court of South Carolina in Dillon County.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-45 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits, and monitoring
programs, and from the Administrator's inspection and sampling activities,
shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Administrator, that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets
under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data. When requested and demonstrated by the
user furnishing a report that such information should be held confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to
the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other "effluent data" as defined by 40 C.F.R. 2.302 will
not be recognized as confidential information and will be available to the
public without restriction.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-46 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Administrator shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, during the previous twelve (12)
months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements. The term significant noncompliance shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the wastewater
measurements taken for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6)
month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, including Instantaneous Limits;
   (B)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all the wastewater measurements
taken for each pollutant parameter during a six (6) month period equals or
exceeds the product of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement,
including Instantaneous Limits, multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease; and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other discharge violation of a pretreatment standard or
requirement (daily maximum, long-term average, Instantaneous Limit or narrative
standard) that the city determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Administrator’s
exercise of his emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide, within forty-five (45) days after the due date,
any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of Best Management Practices, which the city determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 14-12, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 4-6-47 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Administrator finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Administrator may serve upon that user a written Notice of Violation. Within
five (5) days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation
and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the Administrator.
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the Notice of Violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Administrator to take
any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a Notice of Violation.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993; Am. Ord. 21-05, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 4-6-48 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Administrator may enter into Consent Orders, assurances of voluntary
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to Sections 10.4 and 10.5 of this
ordinance and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-49 SHOW CAUSE HEARINGS.
   The Administrator may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to
appear before the Administrator and show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons
for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be
served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested)
at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a
bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-50 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Administrator finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Administrator may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge
directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time. If the
user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related
appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may
contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional
self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the
deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement,
nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-51 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Administrator finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or
that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the Administrator may
issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations
and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-52 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Administrator finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Administrator may fine such user in an amount not to exceed two thousand
dollars ($2,000). Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day
basis. In the case of monthly or other long term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after thirty (30) calendar
days, be assessed an additional penalty of one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of
the unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one and
one-half percent (1-1/2%) per month. A lien against the user's property will be
sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Administrator to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within fifteen (15) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request
has merit, the Administrator may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event
the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest
accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Administrator may add the
costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and
orders, to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-53 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   The Administrator may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after informal
notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Administrator may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after notice and
opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the
POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment
   (A)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Administrator may
take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The Administrator may allow the user to
recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the
termination proceedings in Section 10.8 of this ordinance are initiated against
the user.
   (B)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Administrator prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under Sections 10.3 or 10.8 of this
ordinance.
   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-54 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   In addition to the provisions in §
4-6-26 of this ordinance, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
   (A)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   (B)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   (C)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   (D)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   (E)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in Section 2 of this
ordinance.
   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and
be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
4-6-49 of this ordinance why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise
of this option by the Administrator shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-55 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the Administrator finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
Administrator may petition the Circuit Court of South Carolina through the city
Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this
ordinance on activities of the user. The Administrator may also seek such other
action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relied including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-56 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for
a maximum civil penalty of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per violation, per
day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit,
penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   (B)   The Administrator may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs,
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
city.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-57 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000) per violation, per day, or
imprisonment for not more than two (2) years, or both.
   (B)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least two thousand
dollars ($2,000) or be subject to imprisonment for not more than two (2) years,
or both. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for
personal injury or property damage available under state law.
   (C)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this ordinance, wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this ordinance shall, upon conviction, be subject to the civil or criminal
provisions contained in S.C. Code §§ 48-1-320 and 48-1-330.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-58 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this ordinance are not exclusive. The
Administrator may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city’s enforcement response plan. However, the
Administrator may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Administrator is empowered to take more than one (1)
enforcement action against any noncompliant user. (Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-
1993)
§ 4-6-59 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Administrator may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge
permit to any user who has failed to comply with any provision of this
ordinance, a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless such user first files
a satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the Administrator to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-60 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
ordinance, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user may be
severed. Service will only recommence, at the user's expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-61 CONTRACTOR LISTING.
   Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements are not eligible to receive a contractual award for
the sale of goods or services to the city. Existing contracts for the sale of
goods or services to the city held by a user found to be in significant
noncompliance with pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at
the discretion of the Administrator.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-62 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of paragraph (C), below, are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Administrator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset. If
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five (5) days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-63 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
4-6-5(a) of this ordinance or the specific prohibitions in §§
4-6-5(b)(3) through (20) of this ordinance if it can prove that it did not
know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)    No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-64 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section,
      (1)   "Bypass" means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a user's treatment facility.
      (2)   "Severe property damage" means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of paragraphs (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   (l)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Administrator, at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Administrator of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Administrator may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within
twenty-four (24) hours.
   (D)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Administrator may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under paragraph (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Administrator may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Administrator determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in paragraph (D)(1) of this section.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-65 WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES.
   Wastewater rates shall be as detailed in the Sewer Use Ordinance,
Chapter 4.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-66 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city’s Pretreatment Program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this ordinance and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
§ 4-6-67 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN.
   The Enforcement Response Plan dated August 1, 1995, and all revisions are
hereby made a part of this Sewer Pretreatment Title.
(Ord. CM-93-34, passed 12-13-1993)
CITY OF DILLON ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
AUGUST 1, 1995
A. UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES (No permit)
NONCOMPLIANCE NATURE OF THE VIOLATION ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES PERSONNEL
A. UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES (No permit)
NONCOMPLIANCE            NATURE OF THE         ENFORCEMENT RESPONSES  PERSONNEL
                         VIOLATION
                         IU unaware of         Phone call; NOV with
                         requirement; no harm  application form       PC
                         to POTW/environment
                         IU unaware of         - AO with fine         PC
1. Unpermitted discharge requirement; harm to  - Civil action         S
                         POTW
                         Failure to apply      - Civil action         S
                         continues after       - Criminal             S
                         notice by the POTW    investigation
                                               - Terminate service    S
   Nonpermitted          IU has not submitted
2. discharge             application within 10 Phone call; NOV        PC
   (failure to renew)    days
B. DISCHARGE PERMIT VIOLATION
                         Isolated, not         Phone call; NOV        I, PC
                         significant
                         Isolated, significant AO to develop spill
                         (no harm)             prevention plan and    PC
   Exceedance of local                         fine
   or                    Isolated, harm to     - Show cause order     PC, S
1. Federal Standard      POTW or environment   - Civil action         S
   (permit limit)        Recurring, no harm to AO with fine           PC
                         POTW/environment
                                               AO with fine           PC
                         Recurring;            - Show cause order     PC, S
                         Significant (harm)    - Civil action         S
                                               - Terminate service    S
C. MONITORING AND REPORTING VIOLATIONS
                         Report is improperly  Phone call or NOV      PC
                         signed or certified
                         Report is improperly  - AO                   PC
                         signed or certified   - Show cause order     PC, S
                         after notice by POTW
                         Isolated, not
                         significant (e.g., 5  Phone call; NOV        I, PC
                         days late)
                         Significant (e.g.,    AO to submit with fine
                         report 30 days or     per additional day     PC
                         more late)
                         Reports are always    - AO with fine         PC
1. Reporting violation   late or no reports at - Show cause order     PC, S
                         all                   - Civil action         S
                         Failure to report
                         spill or changed      NOV                    PC
                         discharge (no harm)
                         Failure to report     - AO with fine         PC
                         spill or changed
                         discharge (results in - Civil action         S
                         harm)
                         Repeated failure to   - Show cause order     PC, S
                         report spills         - Terminate service    S
                                               - Criminal             S
                         Falsification         investigation
                                               - Terminate service    S
                         Failure to monitor
   Failure to monitor    all pollutants as     NOV or AO              PC
2. correctly             required by permit
                         Recurring failure to  - AO with fine         PC
                         monitor               - Civil action         S
                                               - Criminal             S
3. Improper sampling     Evidence of intent    investigation
                                               - Terminate service    S
                         Delay of less than 30 NOV                    PC
                         days
                         Delay of 30 days or   AO to install with
   Failure to install    more                  line for each          PC
4. monitoring equipment                        additional day
                                               - Civil action         PC
                         Recurring, violation  - Criminal             S
                         of AO                 investigation
                                               - Terminate service    S
                         Missed milestone by
                         less than 30 days, or NOV or AO with fine    PC
                         will not affect final
                         milestone
                         Missed milestone by
                         more than 30 days, or
                         will affect final     AO with fine           PC
                         milestone (good cause
5. Compliance Schedules  for delay)
   (in permit)           Missed milestone by   - Show cause order     PC, S
                         more than 30 days, or - Civil action         S
                         will affect final
                         miles stone (no good  - Terminate service    S
                         cause for delay)
                         Recurring violation   - Civil action         S
                         or violation of       - Criminal             S
                         schedule in AO        investigation
                                               - Terminate service    S
E. OTHER PERMIT VIOLATIONS
   Wastestreams are      Initial violation     AO with fine           PC
1. diluted in lieu of    Recurring             - Show cause order     PC, S
   treatment                                   - Terminate service    S
   Failure to mitigate   Does not result in    NOV                    PC
2. noncompliance or halt harm
   production            Does result in harm   - AO with fine         PC
                                               - Civil action         S
   Failure to properly
3. operate and maintain  See No. 2 above
   pretreatment facility
F. VIOLATIONS DETECTED DURING SITE VISITS
                         Entry denied or
1. Entry Denial          consent withdrawn,    Obtain warrant and     I
                         copies of records     return to IU
                         needed
                         No harm to POTW or    AO with fine           PC
                         environment
                         Discharges causes     - Civil action         S
2. Illegal Discharge     harm or evidence or   - Criminal             S
                         intent/negligence     investigation
                         Recurring violation   Terminate service      S
                         of AO
                         Unintentional
                         sampling at incorrect NOV                    I, PC
                         location
3. Improper sampling     Unintentionally using NOV                    I, PC
                         incorrect sample type
                         Unintentionally using
                         incorrect sample      NOV                    I, PC
                         collection techniques
                         Inspector finds files
   Inadequate record     incomplete to missing NOV                    I, PC
4. keeping               (no evidence of
                         intent)
                         Recurring             AO with fine           PC
   Failure to report     Inspection finds      NOV                    I, PC
5. additional monitoring additional files
                         Recurring             AO with fine           PC
G. TIMEFRAMES FOR RESPONSES
1. All violations will be identified and documented within five days of
   receiving compliance information.
   Initial enforcement responses (involving contact with the industrial user
2. and requesting information on corrective or preventative action(s) will
   occur within 15 days of violation detection.
   Follow up actions for continuing or reoccurring violations will be taken
3. within 60 days of the initial enforcement response. For all continuing
   violations, the response will include a compliance schedule.
   Violations which threaten health, property or environmental quality are
4. considered emergencies and will receive immediate responses such as halting
   the discharge or terminating service.
   All violations meeting the criteria for significant noncompliance will be
5. addressed with an enforceable order within 30 days of the identification of
   significant noncompliance.
H. DESCRIPTION OF TERMS
Terms and abbreviations used in the plan are defined below:
H. DESCRIPTION OF TERMS
Terms and abbreviations used in the plan are defined below:
AO                   Administrative Order.
Civil Litigation     Civil litigation against the industrial user seeking
                     equitable relief monetary penalties and actual damages.
Criminal Prosecution Pursuing punitive measures against an individual and/or
                     organization through a court of law.
                     Monetary penalty assessed by control Authority officials.
Fine                 Fines should be assessed by the pretreatment coordinator
                     or the POTW Superintendent.
I                    Inspector.
IU                   Industrial User.
Meeting              Informal compliance meeting with the IU to resolve
                     recurring noncompliance.
NOV                  Notice of Violation.
PC                   Pretreatment Coordinator.
S                    Superintendent.
SV                   Significant Violation.
                     Formal meeting requiring the IU to appear and demonstrate
                     why the Control authority should not take a proposed
Show Cause           enforcement action against it. The meeting may also serve
                     as a forum to discuss corrective actions and compliance
                     schedules.
 
CHAPTER 7: WELLHEAD PROTECTION PROGRAM
Section
4-7-1   Introduction
4-7-2   Purpose
4-7-3   Advisory Committee
4-7-4   System Information
4-7-5   Delineation
4-7-6   Potential Pollution Source Inventory
4-7-7   Protection Measures (Management Plan)
4-7-8   Installation of New Wells
4-7-9   Yearly Review and Update
4-7-10   Contingency Plan
4-7-11   Summary
     
Appendix A: Map of Area
     Appendix B: Delineations:    
1. Wells Inside City
                  
2. Wells Outside City
     
Appendix C: Inventory of Potential Contaminant Sources
     
Appendix D: Implementation Schedule
     
Appendix E: Susceptibility Analysis
§ 4-7-1 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Water from a well has not always been underground. As rainfall and
surface water absorb into the soil and migrate through the subsurface, other
substances are dissolved. A well's recharge area (where surface water enters
the ground) and the aquifer (the underground area which contains the water) may
extend for thousands of feet from the well. Thus pollutants from the surface or
underground may travel great distances.
   (B)   The speed of this travel varies from inches per year to feet per day,
depending on the soil and rock structure. In some areas layers of impervious
material may create a confined aquifer. These areas are at less risk than those
with unconfined aquifers where surface water penetrates directly. However, even
confined aquifers may be contaminated at the recharge area, through
imperfections in the confining layers, or by penetrations such as wells or
around well casings. The area closest to a well presents the greatest risk
because of the suction produced by pumping.
   (C)   Until recently wells and springs were thought to be relatively immune
to contamination. The phrase "Water purifies itself every so-many feet" is a
widely accepted misconception which has sometimes been used to justify ignoring
potential pollution sources. As many communities have learned, many substances
of concern to health are not rendered harmless as they migrate underground.
   (D)   Once a contaminant has entered the groundwater, it is far more
difficult and costly to remove than when it was on the surface. If the aquifer
is contaminated, drilling another well may not be an alternative. Direct costs
(for alternate water supply, cleanup, consulting fees, loss of water sales) are
staggering; indirect costs (health consequences, loss to property values and
tax base, ability to attract business, possible job loss,) even greater.
   (E)   Prevention is a far better alternative.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-2 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of a Wellhead Protection Program (WHPP) is the prevention
of groundwater pollution. The basic goal is to protect water wells from
contaminants that may have adverse effects on human health and community well-
being.
   (B)   The City of Dillon recognizes the importance of identifying potential
sources of contamination and implementing a strategy to avert loss of the
public water supply. This Wellhead Protection Program will be implemented for
that purpose.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-3 ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The Wellhead Protection Committee consists of representatives of local
government, citizens, and water system management, with the assistance of South
Carolina Rural Water Association.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-4 SYSTEM INFORMATION.
   The Dillon water system in Dillon County, South Carolina, serves a
population of approximately eight thousand (8,000) and supplies residential,
industrial and commercial users. Water is supplied by five (5) wells on small
tracts of land. One (1) well is located outside the town limits in a sparsely
developed area. An airport, a few residences, some agriculture and businesses
are nearby. The other wells are surrounded by heavy development, including a
number of recognized contamination sites. The system service area consists of
the incorporated area, with some service outside city limits. Public sewer
serves almost all the area; a few residences use septic systems. The area map
is shown in
Appendix A.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-5 DELINEATION.
   Based on information about the characteristics of the individual wells,
pumping rate, and aquifer characteristics, a Wellhead Protection Area (WHPA)
for each well was identified by hydrogeologists with SCDHEC Bureau of Water.
The RESSQC module of the WHPA computer model was used. Each delineation is
divided into three (3) zones that represent one (1) year, five (5) years, and
(10) ten years Time of Travel (TOT) for contaminants. These zones are shown in
Appendix B, which also shows two (2) known groundwater contamination sites.
These delineation zones are the areas from which the wells are most likely to
pull their water. In the event of a spill or other discharge within these
zones, prompt cleanup, remediation or other intervention will be vital to
prevent the substance from entering the wells.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-6 POTENTIAL POLLUTION SOURCE INVENTORY.
   (A)   An inventory of potential pollution sources within the delineation
zones is included as
Appendix C. This information was obtained by windshield survey. Public
information sources such as permits for hazardous waste generation, underground
storage tanks, Form R reporting of chemicals, databases for known groundwater
contamination sites and reported spills were examined. A number of petroleum
contamination listings were found within the well delineation areas.
   (B)   It is important to note that inclusion of an activity as a potential
contaminant source does NOT mean that a problem has occurred at that location.
It means simply that substances may be present that could be contamination
hazards if not properly and carefully managed, or that such types of activities
have been recognized as sources of groundwater contamination when releases
occur.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-7 PROTECTION MEASURES (MANAGEMENT PLAN).
   The management plan includes the following actions:
   (A)   News releases and related articles;
   (B)   Preparation of a wellhead protection brochure for local distribution;
   (C)   Notification of landowners within management zone;
   (D)   Inclusion of educational information with customer bills;
   (E)   Involvement with local school environmental science program;
   (F)   Posting of "Drinking Water Protection Area" signs along roads;
   (G)   Presentation of a request to county and regional planners, asking that
the Wellhead Management Area be placed on planning maps as overlay zoning, and
that the water system be notified when permits are requested for new facilities
seeking to locate within the tab zone;
   (H)   Request the city and county to amend environmental statutes to include
groundwater protection; and
   (I)   Ongoing coordination with Fire and Police Departments, emergency
response, building permitting and inspection office, and county officials.
   An implementation schedule is included as
Appendix D.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-8 INSTALLATION OF NEW WELLS.
   A wellhead protection plan will be prepared for any future wells. This will
be done prior to submission of the request for permit, and will use a radius
prescribed by SCDHEC Bureau of Water as a preliminary delineation zone until
actual flow data is available. An inventory of potential contamination sources
within this zone will be conducted. This information will be submitted with the
permit application to SCDHEC. Within ninety (90) days of completion of the
well, the management zone will be adjusted and the complete Wellhead Protection
Program submitted for review.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-9 YEARLY REVIEW AND UPDATE.
   Periodic updates are critical to a successful wellhead protection program.
Yearly review, including a field survey, will be the responsibility of the
system manager. Items to consider include increases in pumping, addition or
deletion of potential sources, changes of ownership or function. Results will
be reviewed and needed changes to the management plan will be made and
implemented.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-10 CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   Emergency Water. In the event of loss of a well, an adequate supply
should be available from the other wells. Arrangements have been made with
Trico Water Company for additional supplies, if needed.
   (B)   Emergency Response. Spill response is provided by the City Fire
Department. These personnel receive hazardous spill response training at the
state fire academy. The water system contacts are included on the notification
list for emergency response. All fire and police personnel will be familiarized
with this Wellhead Protection Plan, and a copy will be provided for each unit.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 4-7-11 SUMMARY.
   (A)   The City of Dillon water system is implementing a Wellhead Protection
Program for its wells and is submitting this Wellhead Protection plan for these
wells. The area is in the coastal plain, and the wells were delineated by
computer model.
   (B)   The wells are on small tracts of land– the one (1) outside the city is
surrounded by some partially developed areas, including an airport, businesses,
residences, and some agriculture. Three (3) known petroleum contamination sites
are nearby. The wells inside the city are surrounded by heavy development and
have a number of known petroleum contamination sites and one site with VOC
contamination (volatile organic compounds) within the well delineation zones.
The town is served by public sewer; a few houses use septic tanks.
   (C)   The management plan consists of public education efforts, a request to
the county to have the management zone placed on planning maps, and a request
for notification of permit applications within the zone. Public education
initiatives will be conducted.
(Ord. 00-19, passed 12-11-2000)
APPENDIX A: MAP OF AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2440.bmp]
APPENDIX B-1: WELLS INSIDE CITY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2443.bmp]
APPENDIX B-2: WELLS OUTSIDE CITY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2446.bmp]
APPENDIX C: INVENTORY OF POTENTIAL CONTAMINANT SOURCES
Potential Source Potential Contaminant Hazard
Potential Source   Potential Contaminant Hazard
Au Automotive      Oil, fuel, antifreeze, other maintenance fluids, degreasers,
                   solvents
Ag Agricultural    Herbicides, pesticides, fertilizer, solvents, maintenance
                   fluids, fuel
Bl Building supply Paint, solvents, gardening chemicals
C  Cemetery        Embalming fluids, biological
D  Illegal dumping Household goods
Dm Dumpsters       Potential leakage
DC Drycleaning     Solvents
F  Funeral home    Embalming fluids, biological
HM Historic        Former manufacturing
HT Historic        Historic service station - tanks removed or empty?
K  Known release   Petroleum - SEE NEXT PAGE
L  Landfill        Potential leakage
M  Manufacturing   Maintenance chemicals, process materials
Me Medical         Biological, chemicals
P  Public road     Transport spills
PW Private wells   Conduit to groundwater
                   Septic systems, septic "cleaners," household chemicals,
R  Residential     pesticides, herbicides, lawn and garden chemicals, shop and
                   automotive fluids, heating oil, electric transformer oil
RR Railroad        Transport spills
S  Storage         Various substances, may change with time
Se Small engines   Fuels, solvents, oil
Sc School          Cleaning, maintenance, vocational materials, lab chemicals,
                   vehicle fluids
Sm Salvage yard    Vehicle fluids, batteries?
T  Tanks           Fuel storage-- Secondary containment needed for aboveground
                   tanks
AT                 Aboveground tanks
W  Well            Water treatment chemicals
Y  Recycling       Used petroleum, possible leaching from dumpsters, batteries
NOTE--Inclusion of an activity as a potential contaminant source does NOT mean
that a problem has occurred at that location. It means simply that substances
may be present that could be contamination hazards if not properly and
carefully managed, or that such types of activities have been recognized as
sources of groundwater contamination when releases occur.
Known Groundwater Contamination Sites
Known Groundwater Contamination Sites
Petroleum             Bethea Distributing        112 S. Railroad Ave.
                      City of Dillon             501 S 1st Ave.
                      " "                        1st & Harrison St.
                      " "                        211 E. Main St.
                      Carolina Tire              204 N. McArthur Ave.
                      Davis Exxon                201 Hwy 301 N
                      Dillon Maintenance (DOT)   1305 E. Main St.
                      Dillon Exxon               Hwy 301 & Hampton St.
                      Dillon Service Co.         201 E. Main St.
                      Dillon Veneer & Plywood    1000 N 1st Ave.
                      Dillon Yarn Corp.          1019 Titan Road Hwy 9 W
                      Ed F. Hodges #4            709 Hwy 301 N
                      Food Chief # 29            2nd Ave. & Hampton St.
                      Food Mart                  601 W. Main St. (Hwy. 34 West)
                      Hardees of Dillon          301 N. 2nd Ave.
                      Ken's Service Center       600 Hwy. 301N
                      Kwik Fill #17              700 N. 2nd Ave.
                      Marvin's Convenience       1208 S. 2nd Ave.
                      Former Pixie Mart          N 2nd at Harrison St.
                      Price Flying Service       1085 Airport Rd.
                      Quick C Food Mart          Main & 2nd Ave.
                      Rabbitts                   710 N. 3rd Ave.
                      SC-660                     1102 E. Main St.
                      Selma Convenience Store    1503 Hwy 9W
                      Southern Bell-DLLNSCMA     200 N 4th Ave.
                      St. Eugene Comm. Hospital  301 E. Jackson St.
                      Stonewall Jackson Supermkt Hwy 301/Dargan St.
Petroleum             Stonewall Jackson Estate   Madison St. & Hwy 301
                      Tiger Mart #1              Hwy 9 & Hwy 301
                      Wilson's Garage            100 E. Calhoun St.
VOCs volatile organic Dillon County Landfill
solvents
 
APPENDIX D: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Action Date
Action                                  Date
Wellhead protection brochure for local  Three (3) months after approval
distribution
Notification to landowners              Three (3) months after approval
Educational information with customer   Monthly ongoing
bills
Local school/community involvement      2000-2001
News releases and related articles      Immediate, and as appropriate to events
"Drinking Water Protection Area" signs  As provided by DHEC
Requests to county and regional         Immediate
planners
Coordination with fire and police
departments, emergency response,        Ongoing
building permitting and inspection, and
county officials
 
APPENDIX E: SUSCEPTIBILITY ANALYSIS
   The well locations are within SCDHEC's designated Area 3 (Low Vulnerability
Geographic Area).
   For wells installed prior to well construction regulations - the
susceptibility of the well to all sources will automatically be moderate
regardless of the physical/chemical characteristics of the contaminants present
in the groundwater capture zone. This susceptibility degree may be reduced upon
submission of supporting data.
   For wells installed after well construction regulations - the susceptibility
of the water supply well will be evaluated based on the physical/chemical
characteristic of the contaminants present as follows:
CHLORINATED SOLVENTS (AND OTHER SELECT VOCs) - These chemicals are more dense
than water and sink, and they are very mobile. The susceptibility of the well
to such a source is moderate.
PETROLEUM - These chemicals are less dense than water and degrade relatively
easily. The susceptibility of the well to such a source is low in this area.
METALS - These chemicals sorb to the soil matrix and do not readily migrate
vertically. The susceptibility of the well to such a source is low.
PESTICIDES/HERBICIDES - These chemicals sorb to the soil matrix and do not
readily migrate vertically. The susceptibility of the well to such a source is
low.
PATHOGENS - Pathogens are most likely introduced through poor well construction
or where surface waters are pulled into the well. If neither condition is
present, the susceptibility of the well to such a source will be low. If either
condition is present, the susceptibility assigned will be high.
TITLE 5: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Chapter
   
1.   BUILDING REGULATION AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
   
2.   FAIR HOUSING
   
3.   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
   
4.   ZONING REGULATION
   
5.   LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION
   
6.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
7.   ROAD NAMING AND PROPERTY ADDRESSING
   
8.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
9.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   
10.   COMMUNITY APPEARANCE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING REGULATION AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
5-1-1   Codes Adopted
5-1-2   Enforcement Officers
5-1-3   Prevailing Ordinance
5-1-4   Business License Required of Contractors, Subcontractors
5-1-5   Cost of Business License
5-1-6   Contractors Must Be Registered with South Carolina Residential Builders
Commission
5-1-7   Proof of Licensing Required
5-1-8   City of Dillon Cards
5-1-9   Proof of Surety Bond
5-1-10   More Stringent Regulations to Apply
5-1-11   Construction Permits Required
5-1-12   Zoning Compliance Required
5-1-13   Architectural Plans, Description of Facility, Site Schematic Required
5-1-14   Roofing, Siding, Pool Installation Require Separate Permits
5-1-15   Trailers Required to Have Permits
5-1-16   Building Permit Fees
5-1-17   Demolition Permits and Fees
5-1-18   Moving Permits and Fees
5-1-19   Plan Checking Fees
5-1-20   Pool Permits
5-1-21   Sign Permits
5-1-22   Electrical, Plumbing and Gas Permits Required
5-1-23   Homeowners May Perform Work in Primary Residence
5-1-24   Gas Line Pressure Test Required
5-1-25   Permit Not Required for Replacing Fixtures
5-1-26   Business License and Permit Required for Installation of Lawn
Sprinkler Systems
5-1-27   Plumbing Fees, Permits
5-1-28   Electrical Fees, Permits
5-1-29   Inspections Required for Permit Close Out
5-1-30   Tap Fees and Utility Construction Fees
5-1-31   Annexation Required for Access to City Utilities
5-1-32   Miscellaneous Information
5-1-33   Buildings Unfit for Human Habitation and/or Use
5-1-33.1   Definitions
5-1-33.2   Inspection
5-1-33.3   Notice of Noncompliance
5-1-33.4   Recording of Notice
5-1-33.5   Standards for Compliance
5-1-33.6   Posting of Notice to Vacate
5-1-33.7   Alterations, Repairs or Rehabilitation Work
5-1-33.8   Extension of Time
5-1-33.9   Interference
5-1-33.10   Board of Governors Established
5-1-33.11   Officers
5-1-33.12   Rules of Procedures
5-1-33.13   Right of Appeal
5-1-33.14   Hearing
5-1-33.15   Failure to Appear
5-1-33.16   Scope of Hearing
5-1-33.17   Final Decision of the Board of Governors
5-1-33.18   Recourse
5-1-33.19   City May Demolish Unsafe Building: Assessment Against Property
5-1-34   Vacant Commercial and Industrial Building Registration
§ 5-1-1 CODES ADOPTED.
   The following codes are hereby adopted by reference as though they were
copied herein fully:
   (A)   International Residential Code, 2021 Edition with SC modifications.
      (1)   Chapter 1, Administration, excluding Section R103.1 through Section
R103.3 and Section R105.2 through Section R105.2.3.
   (B)   International Building Code, 2021 Edition with SC modifications.
      (1)   Chapter 1, Administration, excluding Section 103.1 through Section
103.3 and Section 105.2 through Section 105.2.3.
   (C)   International Fire Code, 2021 Edition with SC modifications.
      (1)   Chapter 1, Administration, excluding Section 103.1 through Section
103.3.
   (D)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition with SC modifications.
      (1)   Chapter1, Administration, excluding Section 103.1 through Section
103.3 and Section 106.2.
   (E)   International Mechanical Code, 2021 Edition with SC modifications.
      (1)   Chapter 1, Administration, excluding Section 103.1 through Section
103.3 and Section 106.2.
   (F)   International Plumbing Code, 2021 Edition with SC modifications.
      (1)   Chapter 1, Administration, excluding Section 103.1 through Section
103.3 and Section 106.2.
   (G)   National Electrical Code, 2020 Edition with SC modifications.
   (H)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition with SC
modifications.
      (1) Chapter 1, Administration
   (I)   South Carolina Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition.
      (1) Chapter 1, Administration.
   (J)   International Existing Building Code, 2021 Edition.
      (1)   Chapter 1, Administration, excluding Section 103.1 through Section
103.3 and Section 105.2 through Section 105.2.2.
(Ord. 97-06, passed 3-10-1997; Am. Ord. 99-09, passed 7-12-1999; Am. Ord. 01-
15, passed 9-10-2001; Am. Ord. 05-02, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. 05-08, passed
6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 7-10-2006; Am. Ord. 08-27, passed 11-10-2008;
Am. Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 2-14-2011; Am. Ord.
11-12, passed 7-11-2011; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 7-8-2013; Am. Ord. 16-12,
passed 8-15-2016; Am. Ord. 20-06, passed 3-9-2020; Am. Ord. 23-01, passed 3-13-
2023; Am. Ord. 24-15, passed 9-9-2024)
§ 5-1-2 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   Within said codes as adopted and approved by the South Carolina Building
Codes Council in accordance with S.C. § 6-9-50, the Building Inspector for the
city shall be the authorized designated official responsible insofar as to
determine compliance with the provisions of all said codes herein as adopted
and approved by the South Carolina Building Codes Council in accordance with
S.C. § 6-9-50, and shall have the authority to render final interpretations and
enforcement of all said codes. The authority and general responsibilities of
the city’s Building Inspector shall supersede the authority and general
responsibilities of any official indicated within said codes herein for the
public safety of an existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or
for the safety of the occupants thereof. Any actions derived from any official
within said codes herein shall be subject to approval by the Building
Inspector, with the exception of emergencies for the general safety and welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 97-06, passed 3-10-1997; Am. Ord. 99-09, passed 7-12-1999; Am. Ord. 01-
15, passed 9-10-2001; Am. Ord. 05-02, passed 3-14-2005; Am. Ord. 05-08, passed
6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 08-27, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 7-8-2013;
Am. Ord. 16-12, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 5-1-3 PREVAILING ORDINANCE.
   This ordinance shall prevail over all other related ordinances passed by the
City of Dillon.
§ 5-1-4 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED OF CONTRACTORS, SUBCONTRACTORS.
   A City of Dillon business license is required of all contractors and
subcontractors that will be working on a job within the city limits. All
construction projects must submit a listing of all subcontractors prior to
beginning work. Final inspection will be denied until all subcontractors have
purchased the necessary business license and permits.
§ 5-1-5 COST OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Business licenses are based on the gross cost of the job. Rates for licenses
are as follows:
 
City resident contractor   $70 for first $2,000 gross
                           $1 for each additional $1,000
County resident contractor $95 for first $2,000 gross
                           $1.50 for each additional $1,000
Out of county contractor   $120 for first $2,000 gross
                           $2 for each additional $1,000
*** ALL permit types require a contract price be given even though the cost of
the job usually has nothing to do with the cost of the permit. This “cost of
job” category relates directly to business license.***
 
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-6 CONTRACTORS MUST BE REGISTERED WITH SOUTH CAROLINA RESIDENTIAL BUILDERS
COMMISSION.
   All contractors involved with work on a residential structure are required
to be registered with the South Carolina Residential Builders Commission. A
wallet card will be required to obtain permits. Applications are available in
the permit office. All specialty tradesmen are required to be registered. State
licensed residential contractors will not need this registration card but will
need to provide proof of license.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-7 PROOF OF LICENSING REQUIRED.
   Tradesmen in the electrical, plumbing, gas and mechanical fields are
required to provide proof of proper licensing. South Carolina Master
Certificates will be accepted as will City of Dillon Master Cards. Other state
licenses may also be accepted. After each individual card or state license is
reviewed and verified by the Code Enforcement Office and the Board of
Governors, a decision will be made on its validity. A twenty-four (24) hour
wait may be necessary so that we may better research the credentials of a
master tradesman.
§ 5-1-8 CITY OF DILLON CARDS.
   City of Dillon cards are to be renewed on or before July 1 of each calendar
year. Renewals will be reviewed annually by the Board of Governors. Contractors
who have failed to acquire proper permits, pay fees, or fail to request permits
or fail to request inspections will be denied cards. Failure to renew a card
within ninety (90) days will result in cancellation of the license. A state
license will be required before further permits will be issued. Effective July
1, 1994, the City of Dillon will grandfather those persons currently holding
city master cards, all others will be required to show proof of a state license
prior to permit issuance.
§ 5-1-9 PROOF OF SURETY BOND.
   (A)   Proof of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) corporate surety
bond, executed by a surety company authorized to transact business in the State
of South Carolina is required by all contractors regardless of trade. The said
bond shall show the applicant as principals on the bond and condition such that
the principal will comply with all provisions of all City of Dillon Ordinances
and requirements, including by way of example but not by way of limitation,
building codes, building codes standards, plumbing codes, mechanical codes,
housing codes; codes for the abatement of dangerous buildings, fire codes, and
fire code standards, pertaining to the type of work that the contractor's or
subcontractor's license is required in respect of, and further conditioned that
the city, in its sole discretion, or any person or entity that may be injured
or damaged by the principal's failure to comply with such ordinances and
requirements may bring action upon such bond to recover damages suffered in
respect of such failure.
   (B)   The City of Dillon has a nine (9) member Board of Governors, appointed
by Council, that regulates the rules and regulations imposed on the
construction industry. Any complaints or grievances against the permitting
process, fee schedules, testing and items requiring a permit may be directed to
their attention.
§ 5-1-10 MORE STRINGENT REGULATIONS TO APPLY.
   Other state regulations may apply to some trades. In the event that there is
a more stringent state requirement, the City of Dillon will enforce the State
of South Carolina laws.
§ 5-1-11 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS REQUIRED.
   The City of Dillon requires permits for all new construction projects as
well as many alteration jobs. A certificate of zoning compliance is required
before any building or remodeling may take place. New construction projects
require a twenty-four (24) hour wait once a complete application is received.
The penalty for work without a permit is a double fee. Fees charged or paid
wrongfully will be refunded.
§ 5-1-12 ZONING COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Zoning regulations within the corporate limits may prohibit some
additions and enclosures. It is very important that these regulations be
reviewed well before building is expected to begin.
   (B)   No permits will be issued until the property owner has had proper
clearance of the Zoning Administrator. This rule pertains to all properties.
§ 5-1-13 ARCHITECTURAL PLANS, DESCRIPTION OF FACILITY, SITE SCHEMATIC REQUIRED.
   (A)   All structures that exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet must
present site plans as well as architectural plans prior to permits being
issued. The seal of a registered South Carolina architect or engineer is
required on all such structures. All assembly, educational, and institutional
occupancies are required to submit sealed drawings as well. Every new
construction project is required to submit a written or drawn description of
the facility as well as a site schematic showing the location of the building
and all side, front, and rear setbacks. No permits will be issued until the
needed information is submitted.
   (B)   Room enclosures, additions, appurtenant structures, porches, and decks
must submit written or drawn intentions. These may be rough sketches but
dimensions must be exact. The twenty-four (24) hour application wait is
required although the wait may be waived if sufficient evidence to assure
zoning compliance is submitted.
§ 5-1-14 ROOFING, SIDING, POOL INSTALLATION REQUIRE SEPARATE PERMITS.
   Roofing, pool installation, siding installation and other similar jobs
require separate permits. Be sure to check with the office before beginning
such jobs. A wait is not usually required, but a permit is.
§ 5-1-15 TRAILERS REQUIRED TO HAVE PERMITS.
   Trailers are required to have building permits. A copy of the bill of sale
and a plat of the property that the trailer will be placed on is required. The
requirement for plat will be waived if the trailer is being placed in a trailer
park.
§ 5-1-16 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Building permits are based on a fee scale. The total gross cost of the job
including all subcontracts will be used to factor the fee. A copy of the actual
contract to construct or reliance on the Building Valuation table will be used
to determine a reasonable assessment of the contract price.
Building Fee Table
Estimated Cost of Construction Permit Fee
Building Fee Table
Estimated Cost of Construction Permit Fee
$2,000 or less                 $35
                               $35 for the first $2,000 plus $5 for each
$2,001 to $15,000              additional thousand or fraction thereof up to
                               $50,000
                               $87 for the first $15,000 plus $4 for each
$15,001 to $50,000             additional thousand or fraction thereof up to
                               $50,000
                               $192 for the first $50,000 plus $3.50 for each
$50,001 to $100,000            additional thousand or fraction thereof up to
                               $100,000
                               $317 for the first $100,000 plus $3 for each
$100,001 to $500,000           additional thousand or fraction thereof up to
                               $500,000
$500,001 and up                $1,117 for the first $500,000 plus $2.25 for
                               each additional thousand or fraction thereof.
 
(Am. Ord. 08-16, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 5-1-17 DEMOLITION PERMITS AND FEES.
   Demolition permits are required for properties being completely removed or
torn down. A fifty dollar ($50) fee will be charged for the filing and clean-up
inspection of structures being demolished.
(Am. Ord. 08-16, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 5-1-18 MOVING PERMITS AND FEES.
   Moving permits are required for houses and trailers that are moved within
the city limits or being moved out of the corporate limits. Permits of the
South Carolina Department of Public Transportation must also be met. These
permits are the responsibility of the contractor. A fifty dollar ($50) fee will
be charged for moving any building or structure.
(Am. Ord. 08-16, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 5-1-19 PLAN CHECKING FEES.
    When a plan is required to be submitted, a plan-checking fee shall be paid
along with the building permit fee. The plan-checking fee shall be equal to
one-half of the building permit fee as based on the estimated cost of
construction. There is no fee for site plan review. Residential construction
exceeding five thousand (5,000) square feet require plan review.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-20 POOL PERMITS.
   A sixty dollar ($60) fee will be charged to cover the inspections needed for
the construction and plumbing of a pool. A separate electrical permit is
required.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 08-16, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 5-1-21 SIGN PERMITS.
   Sign permits are required. The permit fee is based on the actual
construction of the sign as if it were a building. Signs that exceed twenty-
five (25) feet in height will require drawings that carry an architect or
engineer's seal. A separate electrical permit is required for lighted or
animated signs.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-22 ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND GAS PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All mechanical, electrical, plumbing and gas work requires a permit.
Appropriate calculations and information about equipment is required.
   (B)   Permits are specifically required for the following:
      (1)   Heat pump replacement, water heater change out, and service change.
      (2)   An electrical permit is required when new branch circuits are added
to the panel.
      (3)   Plumbing permits are required when water supply lines have
additions made to them that require a drain.
      (4)   The addition of a new fixture with a supply line and drain requires
a permit.
   (C)   Permits must be paid in full at the time they are issued. Permits must
be applied for in person and signed at the time of issuance. Only contractors
that comply with the local laws will be issued permits.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-23 HOMEOWNERS MAY PERFORM WORK IN PRIMARY RESIDENCE.
   (A)   State law requires residential construction to be done by licensed
residential builders and specialty contractors. Construction must comply with
all applicable state laws, building codes, zoning regulations and local
municipal ordinances.
   (B)   Individual homeowners are allowed to perform work in their primary
residence with immediate family members provided that a permit is obtained. No
business license is required of the homeowner provided they do all of the work
themselves or with immediate family members who are not defined by South
Carolina state laws as contractors or registered entities or individuals.
   (C)   Immediate family members shall hereby be defined as wife, husband,
mother, father, sister, brother, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, grandson, granddaughter,
stepmother, stepfather, stepson, and stepdaughter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize an owner of a
residential building or structure to hire a person or entity that is not
licensed or registered in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Laws of
South Carolina.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 10-14, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 5-1-24 GAS LINE PRESSURE TEST REQUIRED.
   Any time that gas lines are disconnected and then reconnected, a pressure
test is required.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-25 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED FOR REPLACING FIXTURES.
   Simple replacement of an existing outlet, valve, or fixture does not require
a permit as long as water lines or plumbing drainage lines are not moved or
altered. The replacement of commodes or faucets does not require a permit.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-26 BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION OF LAWN
SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   Business licenses and permits are required for the installation of lawn
sprinkler systems.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-27 PLUMBING FEES, PERMITS.
   Plumbing permits are based on total number of fixtures or appliances
supplied with water and/or sewer.
Plumbing Fees
Plumbing Fees
Permit Fee                                                        $20
Sewer Connection                                                  $10
Replace or Repair Sewer (10 linear feet or more require a permit) $10
Water Connection                                                  $10
Fixture Fee (including water and drainage piping)                 $2.50 (each)
Sprinkler Heads (interior and lawn)                               $0.50 (each)
Additional inspections                                            $20
*Water heater change out                                          $20
*Water line connection, electric supply or gas lines will be inspected at this
time. A master license is required in plumbing and electrical or gas to
perform this change out.
 
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 08-16, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 5-1-28 ELECTRICAL FEES, PERMITS.
   Electrical permits are based on service size.
Electrical Fees
Electrical Fees
Residential
Permit Fee                     $20
New Service
up to 200 amps                 $20
additional amps over 200       $0.15
Branch Circuits                $0.50 (per pole)
Inspection Fee (card required) $20
Additional Inspections         $20
Temporary Service Pole         $20 flat fee
Change Out of Service          $30 flat fee
Meter base change out          $30 flat fee
Commercial
Permit Fee                     $30
New Service
up to 200 amps                 $20
additional amps over 200       $0.15
Branch circuits                $1 (per pole)
Inspection fee (card required) $30
Additional Inspections         $30
Temporary Service Pole         $20 flat fee
Change out of service          $35 flat fee
Meter Base Change Out          $35 flat fee
Heating and Cooling
Permit                         $20
Up to five tons                $4 per ton
Over 5 tons                    $2 per ton
Duct work (each unit)          $20
Additional inspections         $20
Temporary start up inspection  $10
Each individual unit is calculated separately while multiple units on the same
site may be covered under one permit.
Change out of an existing unit without changing the duct system requires a $10
permit fee and a $20 inspection fee. This permit covers the changing of the
electrical circuit to the unit or the installation of a disconnect at the
unit. The permit also covers the installation of gas if the unit is replaced
with a gas unit.
 
Refrigeration
Refrigeration
Permit Fee                  $30
0.1 to 5 tons (hp)          $10
5.1 to 15 tons (hp)         $15
15 tons up (hp)             $20
Fossil Fuel Burning Equipment Boilers - Heating Equipment
Permit Fee                  $30
0.1 to 50,000 BTU           $10
50,000 to 100,000 BTU       $15
100,001 to 200,000 BTU      $20
200,001 up BTU              $25
Gas Fees
Permit Fee and First Outlet $20
Additional outlets          $5 (each)
 
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 08-16, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 5-1-29 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED FOR PERMIT CLOSE OUT.
   Inspections are required to close out a permit. It is the responsibility of
the contractor to request inspections as work progresses. Random inspections
may be made. Failure to close out permits in a timely and reasonable manner
will result in denial of additional permits. Final electrical inspections may
be held up until all contractors on a job have been properly inspected and
permits closed out.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-30 TAP FEES AND UTILITY CONSTRUCTION FEES.
   All applicable tap fees and construction fees relating to city utilities are
due and payable at the time of application for permits. No permits will be
issued until tap fees are paid.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-31 ANNEXATION REQUIRED FOR ACCESS TO CITY UTILITIES.
   Properties located outside of the city limits are required by Council policy
to agree to annex into the corporate limits in exchange for access to city
owned utilities. No permits will be issued until proper papers are signed.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-32 MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION.
   (A)   The following information has been provided for the convenience of
contractors and property owners. It is subject to change.
   (B)   Permits may be obtained in the City of Dillon Code Enforcement
Department between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
   (C)   Inspections will be performed between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:
00 noon and 1:00 p.m. and 3:00p.m., except in cases of emergency such as
electrical, gas, sewer, or water service repair.
   (D)   Business licenses may be obtained in the Business License Department
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
   (E)   State trade licensing information may be obtained by contacting the
South Carolina Licensing Board for Contractors at 110 Centerview Drive, P.O.
Box 11329, Columbia, South Carolina 29211-1329 (803) 896-4686
   (F)   The South Carolina Residential Builders Commission may be contacted at
110 Centerview Drive, PD. Box 11329, Columbia, South Carolina 29211 (803) 896-
4696.
   (G)   The International Building Code may be contacted at 900 Montclair
Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213 (205) 591-1853
   (H)   Copies of all current codes may be reviewed in the local code
enforcement office. Copies are also available to purchase at the current IBC
membership rate.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-1-33 BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION AND/OR USE.
   The provisions of §§
5-1-33 through
5-1-33.19 shall apply to all unsafe buildings or structures, as herein defined,
and shall apply equally to new and existing conditions. The provisions included
within the following sections shall constitute and be known and may be cited as
the "Unsafe Building Abatement Regulation," hereinafter referred to as "this
code."
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.1 DEFINITIONS.
   Words not defined herein shall have the meanings stated in the latest
edition of the International Building, Residential, Plumbing, Mechanical,
Energy Conservation, Fire, Fuel Gas and National Electrical Codes with SC
modifications as adapted by the South Carolina Building Codes Council.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels,
equipment, property or any use or occupancy of any kind. The term BUILDING
shall be construed as if followed by the words "or part thereof." For the
purpose of this code each portion of a building separated from other portions
by a fire wall shall be considered a separate building.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter, or his duly representative.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or part thereof, used and occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used and includes any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
   OFFICE OF THE RECORDER. Dillon County Clerk of Court.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to the ground, including buildings,
factory built housing, signs, mobile and portable signs, but excluding minor
landscaping features such as ornamental pools, planting boxes, bird baths,
paved surfaces, walkways, driveways, recreational equipment, flagpoles, and
mailboxes.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure that has any of the following
conditions, such that the life, health, property or safety of it's occupants or
the general public are endangered:
      (1)   Any means of egress or portion thereof is not of adequate size or
is not arranged to provide a safe path of travel in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Any means of egress or portion thereof, such as but not limited to
fire doors, closing devices and fire resistive ratings, is in disrepair or in a
dilapidated or nonworking condition such that the means of egress could be
rendered unsafe in case of fire or panic.
      (3)   The stress in any material, member or portion thereof, due to all
imposed loads including dead load exceeds the stresses allowed in the
International Building and International Residential Codes for new buildings.
      (4)   The building, structure or portion thereof has been damaged by
fire, flood, earthquake, wind or other cause to the extent that the structural
integrity of the building or structure is less than it was prior to the damage
and is less than the minimum requirement established by the International
Building and International Residential Codes for new buildings.
      (5)   Any exterior appendage or portion of the building or structure is
not securely fastened, attached or anchored such that it is capable of
resisting wind, seismic or similar loads as required by the International
Building and International Residential Codes for new buildings.
      (6)   If for any reason the building, structure or portion thereof is
manifestly unsafe or unsanitary for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (7)   The building, structure or portion thereof as a result of decay,
deterioration or dilapidation is likely to fully or partially collapse.
      (8)   The building, structure or portion thereof has been constructed or
maintained in violation of a specific requirement of the International Codes or
of the city Code of Ordinances or South Carolina State Law.
      (9)   Any building, structure or portion thereof that is in such a
condition as to constitute a public nuisance.
      (10)   Any building, structure or portion thereof that is unsafe,
unsanitary or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitutes a fire
hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life, or, which in relation to
existing use, constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.2 INSPECTION.
   Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provision of this
code, or where the Building Inspector has reasonable cause to believe that
there exists in a structure or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to
or in violation of this code which makes the structure or premises unsafe,
dangerous or hazardous, the Building Inspector or authorized representative is
authorized to enter any building, structure or premises at all reasonable times
for the purpose of making examinations, to investigate, make an inspection or
enforce any of the provision of this code, provided such entries be made in
such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the person or
persons in possession.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may enter any building, structure or premise
that is occupied, the Building Inspector shall first identify himself, present
proper credentials and request entry. If the building, structure or premise is
unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other persons having charge of the building and request entry. If entry is
refused, the Building Inspector shall have recourse to every remedy provided by
law to secure entry.
   (B)   No person, owner or occupant of any building or premises shall fail,
after proper credentials are displayed, to permit entry into any building or
onto any property by the Building Inspector or authorized representative for
the purpose of inspections pursuant to this code. Any person violating this
section shall be prosecuted within the limits of the law as set forth in Title
1, Chapter 3, §
1-3-48(A) and (B) of the city Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   The Building Inspector, the Fire Marshal and other department head
supervisors as designated by the City Council are hereby authorized to make
such inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the
provisions of this code.
   (D)   Any requirement necessary for the strength or stability of an existing
or proposed building or structure, or for the safety or health of the occupants
thereof, not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the
Building Inspector.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.3 NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   After the Building Inspector has inspected or caused to be inspected a
building, structure or portion thereof and has determined that such building,
structure or portion thereof is unsafe, he shall initiate proceedings to cause
the abatement of the unsafe condition by repair, vacation or demolition or
combination thereof. The Building Inspector shall prepare and issue a notice of
unsafe building directed to the owner of record of the building or structure.
The notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
   (A)   The street address and legal description of the building, structure or
premises.
   (B)   A statement indicating the building or structure has been declared
unsafe by the Building Inspector, and a detailed report documenting the
conditions determined to have rendered the building or structure unsafe under
the provision of this code.
   (C)   A statement advising that if the following required action as
determined by the Building Inspector is not commenced within or completed by
the time specified, the building will be ordered vacated and posted to prevent
further occupancy until the work is completed.
      (1)   If the building or structure is to be repaired, the notice shall
require that all necessary permits be secured and the work commenced within
sixty (60) days and continued to completion within such time as the Building
Inspector determines. The notice shall also indicate the degree to which the
repairs must comply with the provisions of the International Building Code and
all related codes as passed by the South Carolina Building Codes Council, in
accordance with §
5-1-33.7.
      (2)   If the building or structure is to be vacated, the notice shall
indicate the time within which vacation is to be completed.
      (3)   If the building or structure is to be demolished, the notice shall
require that the premises be vacated within sixty (60) days, that all required
permits for demolition be secured and that the demolition be completed within
such time as determined reasonable by the Building Inspector.
      (4)   A statement advising that any person having any legal interest in
the property may appeal the notice by the Building Inspector to the Board of
Governors as appointed by the City Council; and that such appeal shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the Code Enforcement Director within thirty
(30) days from the date of the notice and that failure to appeal in the time
specified will constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative hearing.
   (D)   The notice and all attachments thereto shall be served upon the owner
of record and posted on the property in a conspicuous location. A copy of the
notice and all attachments thereto shall also be served on any person
determined from official public records to have a legal interest in the
property. Failure of the Building Inspector to serve any person herein required
to be served other than the owner of record shall not invalidate any
proceedings hereunder nor shall it relieve any other person served from any
obligation imposed an him.
   (E)   The notice shall be served either personally or by certified mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each person at the address as it
appears on the official public records. If addresses are not available on any
person required to be served, the notice addressed to such person shall be
mailed to the address of the building or structure involved in the proceedings.
The failure of any person to receive notice, other than the owner of record,
shall not invalidate any proceedings under this section. Service by certified
or registered mail as herein described shall be effective on the date the
notice was received as indicated on the return receipt.
   (F)   Proof of service of the notice shall be by written declaration
indicating the date and manner in which service was made and signed by the
person served on by the return receipt.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.4 RECORDING OF NOTICE.
   If the notice is not complied with nor an appeal filed within the allotted
time, the Building Inspector shall file in the office of the recorder a
certificate describing the property and certifying that the building or
structure is unsafe and that the owner of record has been served. This
certificate shall remain on file until such time as the conditions rendering
the building or structure unsafe have been abated. At such time, the Building
Inspector shall file a new certificate indicating that corrective action has
been taken and the building or structure is no longer unsafe from that
condition.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.5 STANDARDS FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The following action shall be taken by the Building Inspector when ordering
the repair, vacation or demolition of an unsafe building or structure.
   (A)   The building shall be ordered repaired in accordance with the latest
edition of the International Building Code, International Residential Code,
National Electrical Cade and all related mandatory codes as amended and
approved by the South Carolina Building Code Council pursuant to §
5-1-33.7 or demolished at the option of the owner.
   (B)   If the building or structure poses an immediate hazard to life or to
the safety of the public it shall be ordered vacated immediately.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.6 POSTING OF NOTICE TO VACATE.
   Every notice to vacate, in addition to complying with §
5-1-33.3, shall be posted at each exit and entrance to the building or
structure and shall state: THIS BUILDING IS UNSAFE AND ITS USE OR OCCUPANCY HAS
BEEN PROHIBITED BY THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Such notice shall remain posted until the required repairs are made or
demolition is completed. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation or their agents to remove such notice without written permission of
the Building Inspector, or for any person to enter the building except for the
purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing same.
   (B)   There shall be no violation under this section for entry upon or into
a building or structure by police or fire personnel, Building Inspector or code
enforcement personnel or a licensed contractor on the premises for the purpose
of repair, removal or razing of the building or structure.
   (C)   The owner may enter upon the premises when accompanied by any of the
personnel listed in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   Subsequent to posting the building, the building inspector may cause
the building to be repaired to the extent required to render it safe or if the
notice required demolition, to cause the building or structure to be demolished
and all debris removed from the premises.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.7 ALTERATIONS, REPAIRS OR REHABILITATION WORK.
   Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any existing
building without requiring the building to comply with all the requirements of
the latest edition of the mandatory International Building Code, International
Residential Code, International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code,
International Fire Code, International Energy Conservation Code, International
Fuel Gas Code, National Electrical Code and all other related mandatory codes
as adopted and amended by the South Carolina Building Codes Council provided
that the alteration, repair or rehabilitation work conforms to the requirements
of the aforementioned mandatory building codes within this section for new
construction. The Building Inspector shall determine, subject to appeal to the
Board of Governors the extent, if any, to which the existing building shall be
made to conform to the requirements of the aforementioned mandatory building
codes within this section for new construction.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.8 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   The Building Inspector may approve one (1) or more extensions of time as he
may determine to be reasonable to complete the required repair or demolition.
Such requests for extensions shall be made in writing stating the reasons
therefore. If the extensions of time, in total, exceed one hundred twenty (120)
days, they must also be approved by the Board of Governors which may act
without further public hearing.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.9 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall obstruct or interfere with the implementation of any action
required by the final notice of the Building Inspector or the Board of
Governors. Any person found interfering or obstructing such actions shall be
prosecuted to the extent provided for by law.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.10 BOARD OF GOVERNORS ESTABLISHED.
   The Board of Governors is hereby established for the express purpose of
providing for the final interpretation of provisions of this code and any
complaints or grievances against the permitting process, fee schedules, testing
and items requiring a permit pursuant to §
5-1-9. The Board shall consist of seven (7) members who are not employees of
the city and shall be appointed by the City Council for staggered terms of four
(4) years each. Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms in the same
manner as the original appointment. Members of the Board of Governors may be
removed by City Council for cause.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.11 OFFICERS.
   The Board shall elect a Chairperson from its membership for a term of one
(1) year. The Board shall appoint a secretary who may also be an officer of the
city approved by the City Administrator or a member of the Board. Other
officers may be elected by the Board as provided by its rules of procedure.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.12 RULES OF PROCEDURES.
   The Board shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of its meetings. A
majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum. Meetings of the Board
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson or at such times as the Board may
determine. The Chairperson may administer oaths and compel attendance of
witnesses by subpoena. The Board shall keep minutes of its meetings, showing
the vote of each member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote by
reason of conflict, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions filed in the office of the secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.13 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person entitled to service in accordance with the provisions of this
code may appeal any action of the Building Inspector under this code to the
Board of Governors. Such appeal must be filed in writing with the Code
Enforcement Director within thirty (30) days from the date of service and must
contain at least the following information:
   (A)   Identification of the building or structure concerned by street
address or legal description.
   (B)   A statement identifying the legal interest of each appellant.
   (C)   A statement identifying the specific order or section being appealed.
   (D)   A statement detailing the issues on which the appellant desires to be
heard.
   (E)   The legal signature of all appellants and their official mailing
address.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.14 HEARING.
   Upon receipt of an appeal, the Board of Governors shall as soon as
practicable fix a date, time and location for the hearing of the appeal. The
hearing date shall be not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30)
days from the date the appeal was filed with the Building Inspector. Written
notice of time and location of the hearing shall be delivered personally or
mailed to each appellant at the address on the appeal by certified mail,
postage prepaid and receipt requested.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.15 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   Failure of any person to appear at the hearing set in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a waiver of his right to an
administrative hearing on the notice.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.16 SCOPE OF HEARING.
   The hearing shall offer the appellant reasonable opportunity to be heard on
only those specific matters or issues raised by the appellant in his appeal.
The appellant may appear at the hearing in person or through his attorney or
other designated representative and give testimony at the place and time fixed
in the written notice; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of
law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the Board of
Governors.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.17 FINAL DECISION OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS.
   The final decision of the Board shall be in writing and shall contain all
findings of fact and detailed requirements to be complied with. A copy of the
decision shall be delivered to the appellant either personally or by certified
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. The effective date of the
Board's final decision shall be stated therein.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.18 RECOURSE.
   If the appellant is aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Governors,
nothing in this code shall deprive him of seeking redress in the civil or other
applicable court. Said appeal must be filed within fifteen (15) days from the
effective date of the Board's final decision.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 5-1-33.19 CITY MAY DEMOLISH UNSAFE BUILDING: ASSESSMENT AGAINST PROPERTY.
   Any person who, after the order of the Building Inspector or the decision of
the Board of Governors becomes final, fails or refuses to respond to the
direction of such order pursuant to provisions of the Unsafe Building Abatement
Regulation Code, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a
fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisonment for not more than
thirty (30) days upon conviction, each day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense; and the Building Inspector may cause the building or
structure to be demolished by the city or its contracted party, and all debris
removed from the premises and the expense of demolition and clearing of the
property shall be an assessment against the property owner, as provided for
herein.
   (A)   When the city demolishes a residential structure or building and
removes all debris from the premises, the city shall charge the property owner
a fee sufficient to cover the cost the city pays to the Dillon County Landfill
plus an additional fifty percent (50%) to cover the city’s expenses for
administrative costs and other ancillary fees involved in having the structure
or building demolished and removed.
   (B)   When the city contracts with another party to have a residential
structure or building and all debris removed from the premises, the city shall
charge the property owner a fee sufficient to cover the cost the city pays to
the contracted party plus an additional fifty percent (50%) to cover the city’s
expenses for advertising, administrative time and work involved in having the
structure or building demolished and removed.
   (C)   When the city contracts with another party to have a commercial
structure or building and all debris removed from the premises, the city shall
charge the property owner a fee sufficient to cover the cost the city pays to
the contracted party plus an additional twenty-five percent (25%) to cover the
city’s expenses for advertising, administrative time and work involved in
having the structure or building demolished and removed.
   (D)   Any amount charged for work authorized and completed by the city or
its contracted party for the demolition and removal of an unsafe building or
structure pursuant to this section which is not paid within thirty (30) days
from proper billing shall constitute a lien against the real property upon
which such cost incurred and shall be collectible in the same manner as
municipal taxes as provided by law.
(Ord. 08-30, passed 1-12-2009; Ord. 14-02, passed 4-14-2014; Ord. 21-04, passed
4-12-2021; Ord. 24-14, passed 9-9-2024)
§ 5-1-34 VACANT COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDING REGISTRATION.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this code to establish procedures for
identification and registration of vacant commercial and industrial buildings;
determining the responsibilities of owners of vacant commercial and industrial
buildings; and providing for administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all vacant
commercial and industrial buildings within the jurisdiction of the city limits
of Dillon. The City Manager or his designee shall be responsible for carrying
out the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this section.
Where terms are not defined, through the methods authorized by this section,
such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meaning such as the context implies.
      CITATION. A charge or formal written accusation enforced of violation of
a municipal, state or federal law, regulation or ordinance, including any
violations of the International Building Code and related codes as adopted and
amended by the South Carolina Building Codes Council.
      CODE VIOLATION. Violation of any code adopted and/or enforced by the
city, which may include but not be limited to the City of Dillon Code of
Ordinances or International Building Codes and related codes as adopted and
amended by the South Carolina Building Codes Council.
      COURTESY REGISTRATION. Notification by mail to the Code Enforcement
Department notifying the city of an extended vacancy of sixty (60) days or more
of a primary residence for work, vacation, military or a medical reason.
      NUISANCE. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures theron of which harbor unsanitary conditions such as but not limited
to obnoxious hazardous odors and/or harmful bacteria detrimental to the life,
health and safety of the public.
      OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable title
in the property, or recorded in the official records of the state, county or
municipality as holding title.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon.
      RESPONSIBLE LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A person having his or her place of
residence or business within forty-five (45) miles of the vacant building and
designated by the property owner as the agent responsible for operating such
property in compliance with the ordinances adopted by the city. For the
purposes of this section, the term "agent" shall refer to the responsible local
representative.
      SECURE. A building or portion of a building is closed or locked for entry
by normal means other than boarding.
      UNOCCUPIED. A building which is not being used for a legal occupancy. For
the purpose of this section, individual permitted commercial/residential rental
room space(s) therein shall not be deemed as separate individual building(s).
      VACANT BUILDING. Any commercial or industrial structure built for
occupancy of residential, commercial or industrial uses that is unoccupied for
more than sixty (60) days. (With respect to all premises in the city, the
period used for calculating a vacancy shall be deemed to have commenced as of
July 11, 2022 regardless of any period of vacancy prior to such date).
      VACANT BUILDING; CATEGORICAL CLASSIFICATION STANDARDS. A building or
portion of a building which is:
         (a)   Category I. No current code violations on the structure or the
premises.
            1.   The building is secure, not boarded.
            2.   The building is structurally sound with no code violations.
            3.   The premises is maintained in compliance with Dillon City Code
by owner or responsible party.
         (b)   Category II. Minimal code violations.
            1.   The building is secure and boarded in compliance with the City
of Dillon Code of Ordinances as amended and adopted by Dillon City Council.
            2.   The building is structurally sound with minor code violations.
         (c)   Category III. Severe code violations.
            1.   The building is harboring feces of bats and/or birds such as
but not limited to droppings, parasites, fungus, harmful bacteria, unsanitary
conditions and hazardous odors detrimental to the life, health and safety of
the public.
            2.   Structural deficiencies are evident.
            3.   History of criminal activity.
            4.   Illegally occupied.
   (C)   Registration of vacant commercial and industrial buildings.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, all vacant buildings
shall be registered with the Code Enforcement Department within ten (10) days
of becoming vacant as defined in §
5-1-34(B). Registration is valid for twelve (12) months and must be renewed
annually from date the building became vacant.
      (2)   Exemptions from registration can be granted for the following
situations upon notification in writing to the Code Enforcement Director:
         (a)   Buildings that are actively being marketed for sale or rent.
Must be maintained to minimum code for the duration on the market. Satisfactory
evidence to include but not limited to a multiple listing service (MLS)
information or published advertisements offering the property on the market (up
to one (1) year, longer by appeal);
         (b)   Buildings that are actively being renovated. Repairs and
progression must be noticeable by the City of Dillon Building Inspector or
authorized representative(s) (up to one (1) year, longer by appeal);
         (c)   Buildings that serve as a primary residence in which the owner
is away for an extended period of time for work, vacation, military or medical
reason. Building and property must be maintained to minimum code. Requires a
courtesy registration;
         (d)   Government owned buildings; and/or
         (e)   Buildings that are structurally deficient that have been ordered
by the city to be demolished and removed, in which the owner has provided
consent to the city to demolish, and the city has accepted the consent. Liens
are to be placed against the property to cover the cost of demolition pursuant
to §
5-1-33.19 of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances.
      (3)   If the building is vacant at the expiration of any registration
period, the owner shall re-register such building and pay the annual
registration and inspection fees.
      (4)   The owner registering a vacant building shall supply the following
information on an authorized form provided by the Code Enforcement Department:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner;
         (b)   Name, address and telephone number of any responsible party, if
applicable;
         (c)   Name, address and telephone number of any local agent or
representative of the owner, required if the owner's residence or business
address is more than forty-five (45) miles from vacant building;
         (d)   Name, address and telephone number of all persons with any legal
interest in the property, building or premises including mortgagees and
successors in interest;
         (e)   Legal description and tax parcel identification number of the
premises on which the building is situated;
         (f)   The common address of the building;
         (g)   Date on which the building became vacant along with any
supporting documentation; and
         (h)   Vacant building plan in accordance with §
5-1-34(D).
      (5)   Following the registration of the vacant building, the City of
Dillon Building Inspector and/or authorized representative(s) shall conduct a
complete inspection of the property and premises to determine any code
violations or nuisances and report such findings to the Code Enforcement
Director in order to verify the vacant building category.
         (a)   A status report will be provided to the owner of the building
with the findings and current condition of the property.
         (b)   It will include any found violations and assign a category to
the building.
      (6)   All vacant buildings must remain secure and/or boarded in
accordance with related City of Dillon Code of Ordinances as adopted and
amended by Dillon City Council. Not withstanding any provision of this code it
shall be unlawful for any person to cover the window or door openings of any
building with any material other than window or door materials conforming with
the provisions of the latest edition of the International Building Code and
related codes as approved and amended by the South Carolina Building Codes
Council without first obtaining a City of Dillon building permit and/or
approval from the City of Dillon Board of Architectural Review for buildings
located within the designated Commercial Historic Overlay District.
      (7)   Owner shall post "No Trepass" placards on the premises. Additional
employment of security services for the premises for a specified number of
hours every day may be required by the Police Chief or his or her designee on
the basis of the premises history of code and/or criminal violations.
      (8)   Vacant building owners must designate a responsible local
representative ("agent") if their place of residence or business is more than
forty-five (45) miles from the vacant building. The responsible local
representative shall act as agent for the property owner for purposes of
accepting legal service; however, the vacant building owner remains personally
liable in criminal prosecutions for code violations. The responsible local
representative must be available at the number listed at all times in the event
of an emergency or catastrophe.
   (D)   Establishment of vacant building plan.
      (1)   When a building is registered as required by this chapter, the
owner shall submit, or cause to be submitted, for approval a vacant building
plan. The plan shall contain the following:
         (a)   The reasonably expected period of vacancy;
         (b)   A plan to make the building ready for occupancy with sufficient
detail regarding the proposed repair and/or rehabilitation of the building to
enable the City of Dillon Building Inspector and/or authorized representative
(s) to determine the adequacy of such plan;
         (c)   A notarized letter of written consent by the owner allowing city
officials to enter and inspect the premises for the period in which the vacant
building plan is in effect;
         (d)   For buildings or structures which are identified as being or
containing public nuisances, then the vacant building plan shall contain a plan
of action to remedy such public nuisances;
         (e)   For each required plan, a time schedule shall be submitted
identifying a date of commencement of repair and/or rehabilitation and schedule
for completion of repair and/or rehabilitation for each building or structure
identified nuisance;
         (f)   When the owner proposes to occupy, sell, lease or demolish the
vacant building, then the owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such
action; and
         (g)   A plan of action to secure, monitor and maintain the building
and premises thereof in conformance with the provisions of this section.
         (h)   The vacant building plan shall be submitted to the City of
Dillon Code Enforcement Department.
      (2)   If the property is subject to a vacant building plan and the plan
has been properly approved by city officials, the transferee is subject to the
terms of the vacant building plan. The transferee may apply to the city to be
released from the requirements of the vacant building plan.
   (E)   Vacant building fees.
      (1)   Annual registration fees are based on the number of years that a
building has been vacant (after the effective date of this section). All fees
are due at the time of registration or renewal. The fees are as follows for all
structures:
         (a)   Initial registration: $200.
         (b)   First annual renewal: $500.
         (c)   Second annual renewal: $500.
         (d)   Third annual renewal: $1,000.
         (e)   Each year thereafter is: $1,000.
      (2)   An annual compliance inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50) is
required on all vacant buildings. The fee shall be paid at the time of
registration.
      (3)   Upon determination of a vacant building that hasn't been registered
in accordance with this section, additional penalties may apply in addition to
the fees due at time of registration or renewal in accordance to §
5-1-34(F).
      (4)   Delinquent registration fees as a lien. After the owner is given
notice of the amount of the registration fee due, except for those owners that
have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to §
5-1-34(I), and the owner fails to pay the amount due, said amount shall
constitute a debt due and owing to the city, and the city may commence a civil
action to collect the unpaid debt.
      (5)   If a vacant building becomes occupied within sixty (60) days
following an annual registration date and remains occupied for at least six (6)
months, the owner of the vacant building can appeal to have the most recent
annual registration fee refunded. This excludes any fees from penalties,
initial registration or compliance inspections.
   (F)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Upon determination that a vacant building owner has failed to
register or update information in accordance with this section, an
administrative penalty of five hundred dollars ($500) in addition to the
registration fee will be assessed if not in compliance within eleven (11) days
after notice.
      (2)   Failure by the owner to submit a vacant building plan or comply
with a vacant building plan that has been approved by the city under this
section or pay the fees as required under this section is a violation of the
code and may be remedied by any of the following:
         (a)   An administrative penalty of five hundred dollars ($500); or
         (b)   Acquisition of the property by eminent domain in accordance with
state law.
   (G)   Acquisition of vacant buildings by eminent domain. The city may
acquire by eminent domain pursuant to applicable state law, any premises
determined to be vacant and a persistent nuisance, and shall have the power to
hold, clear, manage or dispose of premises so acquired for residential,
commercial, industrial and related use.
   (H)   Violations. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to five
hundred dollars ($500) or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon
conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for
violation shall not relieve the offender of liability for delinquent penalties
and costs provided for herein.
   (I)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the requirements of this section may
seek administrative appeal to the City of Dillon Board of Governors. Any person
aggrieved by a final decision issued under this section by the City of Dillon
Board of Governors, may seek relief in any court of competent jurisdiction as
provided by the law.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 5-9-2022)
CHAPTER 2: FAIR HOUSING
Section
5-2-1   Policy
5-2-2   Definitions
5-2-3   Exemptions
5-2-4   Discrimination in Sale or Rental of Housing
5-2-5   Discrimination in the Financing of Housing
5-2-6   Discrimination in the Provision of Brokerage Services
5-2-7   Administration, Authority and Responsibility
5-2-8   Findings of Housing Board of Appeal; Nature of Affirmative Action
5-2-9   Investigating; Powers; Records
5-2-10   Conspiracy to Violate This Chapter Unlawful
§ 5-2-1 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that no person shall be discriminated
against in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of race, color, religion,
sex, age, national origin, disability or HIV positive status; the city has
decided to publicly state this policy through the enactment of the following
provisions.
   (B)   This chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the policy
hereinabove expressed in subsection (A) above.
§ 5-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   CONCILIATION AGREEMENT means a written agreement or statement setting forth
the terms of the agreement mutually signed and subscribed to by both
complainant(s) and respondent(s) and witnessed by a duly authorized enforcing
agent who will be so designated by the City Council.
   CONCILIATION FAILURE means any failure to obtain a conciliation agreement
between the parties to the discrimination charge or a breach thereof.
   DISCRIMINATION means any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial, or any
other act of discrimination or preference in the treatment of a person or
persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, disability
or HIV positive status or the aiding, abetting, inciting, coercing or
compelling thereof.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE means any act which is proscribed under §
5-2-4 etseq.
   DWELLING means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied
as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one (1) or more
families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion
thereof.
   FAMILY includes a single individual.
   HOUSING BOARD OF APPEAL AND ADJUSTMENT means that body of citizens duly
appointed by the City Council to hear, make determinations, and issue findings
in all cases of discriminatory practices in housing resulting from conciliation
failure.
   PERSON includes one (1) or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, and receivers.
   TO RENT includes to lease, to sub-lease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
§ 5-2-3 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in §
5-2-1 or any other section shall apply to:
      (1)   Any unimproved lot or vacant land, or to any single family house
sold or rented by an owner;
         (a)   Provided, that such private individual owner does not own more
than three (3) such single-family houses at any one (1) time;
         (b)   Provided, further, that in the case of the sale of any such
single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at
the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house
prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only
with respect to one (1) such sale within any twenty-four (24) month period;
         (c)   Provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner
does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf,
under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such
single family houses at any one (1) time;
         (d)   Provided further, the sale or rental of any such single family
house shall be exempted from the application of this chapter only if such house
is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker agent, or
salesperson or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting;
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
5-2-4(3);
         (e)   But nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance to perfect or transfer the title, or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one (1) of such
living quarters as his residence. For the purposes of this section, a person
shall be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
         (a)   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
a principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of
any dwelling or any interest therein;
         (b)   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months participated as
agent other than in the sale of his own personal residence in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
         (c)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by five (5) or more families.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex,
national origin, disability or HIV positive status. Nor shall anything in this
chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an
incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or
operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its
members.
§ 5-2-4 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability or HIV positive status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services, of
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, sex, religion,
national origin, disability or HIV positive status;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, sex, color, religion, national origin, disability or HIV positive status,
or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, sex, color, religion,
national origin, disability or HIV positive status that any such dwelling is
not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry into the neighborhood
of a person or persons of a particular race, sex, color, religion, national
origin, disability or HIV positive status.
§ 5-2-5 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, sex, color, religion, national origin,
disability or HIV positive status of such person or any person associated with
him in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or for the
purpose of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or
prospective owners, leases, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
in relation to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given; provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope
or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
5-2-3.
§ 5-2-6 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, sex, religion, national origin, disability or HIV positive status.
§ 5-2-7 ADMINISTRATION, AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Building Inspector to enforce
and administer this chapter. All complaints concerning violations of this
chapter must be made in writing to the Building Inspector and must be made
within six (6) months from the transaction complained of. The Building
Inspector, or his designee, shall investigate any complaints arising under this
chapter, make determinations of probable cause, and seek to conciliate apparent
violations. Conciliation efforts may be initiated by any person said to be
subject to discrimination as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish a Housing Board of Appeals and shall
promulgate formal rules and procedures for it to hear complaints and make
appropriate findings. Such procedures shall be made known to all parties of a
given charge of discrimination. Hearings by the Board shall commence whenever
the Building Inspector acting on behalf of the city decides a conciliation
failure has occurred. Hearings open to the public may be initiated by the
responding party at any time during the conciliation process. For the purposes
of this section the Planning and Zoning Commission shall also serve as the
Housing Board.
§ 5-2-8 FINDINGS OF HOUSING BOARD OF APPEAL; NATURE OF AFFIRMATIVE ACTION.
   (A)   If the Housing Board determines that the respondent has not engaged in
an unlawful practice, the Board shall state its findings and conclusions of law
and shall issue an order dismissing the complaint. A copy of the order shall be
delivered to the complainant, the respondent, the City Attorney, and such other
public officers and persons as the Board deems proper.
   (B)   If the Housing Board determines that the respondent is engaged in an
unlawful practice, it shall state its findings of fact and recommendations to
the Building Inspector, who shall in appropriate cases obtain an arrest warrant
for violation of this chapter from the municipal court.
§ 5-2-9 INVESTIGATING; POWERS; RECORDS.
   (A)   In connection with an investigation of a complaint filed under this
chapter, the Building Inspector at any reasonable time may request voluntary
access to premises, records and documents relevant to the complaint and may
request the right to examine, photograph, and copy evidence.
   (B)   Every person subject to this chapter shall make, keep and preserve
records relevant to the determination of whether unlawful practices have been
or are being committed, such records being maintained and preserved in a manner
and to the extent required under the Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 3601 et seq. and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 5-2-10 CONSPIRACY TO VIOLATE THIS CHAPTER UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful practice for a person, or for two (2) or more persons
to conspire:
   (A)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he has
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any
manner in any investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this chapter;
   (B)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce a person to engage in any of
the acts or practices declared unlawful by this chapter;
   (C)   To obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the provisions of
this chapter or any order issued thereunder; or
   (D)   To resist, prevent, impede, or interfere with the enforcing agent,
Housing Board, or any of its members or representatives in the lawful
performance of duty under this chapter.
CHAPTER 3: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Section
5-3-1   Created
5-3-2   Membership
5-3-3   Organization, Meetings, Rules, Staff and Finances
5-3-4   General Powers and Duties
§ 5-3-1 CREATED.
   There is hereby created and established the City of Dillon Planning and
Zoning Commission.
(1977 Code, § 5-3001) (Am. Ord. 95-12, passed 7-10-1995)
State Law Reference:
   Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994, S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310, et seq.
   Establishment of planning commission, S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310 through 6-29-
380, and South Carolina Local Government
§ 5-3-2 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of seven (7) members to be
appointed by City Council. Board members may be paid at the rate of ten dollars
($10) per meeting, not to exceed two (2) meetings per month, and may be
reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official
duties.
State Law Reference:
   Membership, terms and compensation of members, S.C. Code 6-7-360
§ 5-3-3 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, RULES, STAFF AND FINANCES.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson from among its members. The term of the Chairperson and other
officers shall be one (1) year with eligibility for re-election. It shall
appoint a secretary who may be an officer or an employee of the governing
authority or of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall adopt rules for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its recommendations,
transactions, findings and determinations; and shall meet at the call of the
Chairperson and at the times as the Chairperson or Commission may determine.
   (C)   All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission except executive
sessions held pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, shall be open to the
public and all records of the Commission shall be a public record.
   (D)   The Commission may appoint employees and staff as it may deem
necessary for its work and may make expenditures for salaries of any employees
and staff, contracts with consultants, and for the purchase of required
equipment and supplies. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts,
shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Council.
(1977 Code, § 5-3003)
State Law Reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 et seq.
   Organization, rules, staff and finances; S.C. Code § 6-29-360
§ 5-3-4 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities
set forth in the General Statutes of South Carolina, South Carolina Local
Government Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994, S.C. Code §§ 6-24-310,
et seq.(1994 supp.)
   (B)   In general, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power
to:
      (1)   Prepare and revise periodically a comprehensive plan and program
for the development of the city as provided in this act.
      (2)   Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Council as a means for
implementing the plan and program:
         (a)   Zoning ordinances or resolutions, and maps and appropriate
revisions thereof for the city, as provided in this act;
         (b)   Regulations for the subdivision of land and appropriate
revisions thereof within the city, and to administer the regulations that may
be adopted as provided in this act;
         (c)   An official map and appropriate revision thereof showing the
exact location of existing or proposed public street, highway, and utility
right-of-way and public building sites, together with regulations to control
the erection of buildings or other structures or changes in land use within
such rights-of-way, building sites or open spaces within the city or a
specified portion thereof, as set forth in this act;
         (d)   A capital program for the city based on the Comprehensive Plan
and the capital improvements necessary to implement the plan. The capital
program shall include an annual capital budget based on estimates of the cost
of proposed projects and the means of financing them. The Commission shall
submit the capital program, including the capital budget, to the governing
authority or authorities as directed.
      (3)   Establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area.
      (4)   Prepare and recommend to the Council for adoption ordinances
promoting orderly development in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (5)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the Comprehensive Plan for the growth and
improvement of the area.
      (6)   Review and recommend to the Council any needed changes in the
zoning ordinance and the map of the city.
      (7)   Prepare and recommend for adoption subdivision regulations and to
administer the regulations.
      (8)   Keep the Council and the general public informed and advised as to
these matters.
(1977 Code, § 5-3004)
State Law Reference:
   Function and powers of local planning commission, S.C. Code § 6-29-310 et
seq., and South Carolina Local Government Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act
of 1994, S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310, et seq. (1994 supp.)
CHAPTER 4: ZONING REGULATION
Section
Article A: Adoption and Purpose
5-4-1   Authority and Title
5-4-1-1   Vested Rights to Develop Property
5-4-2   Jurisdiction and Purpose
5-4-3 through 5-4-5 Reserved
Article B: Administration
5-4-6   Code Enforcement Director
5-4-7   Zoning Permits
5-4-8   Certificates of Zoning Compliance
5-4-9   Violations
5-4-10   Appeals Process
5-4-11 through 5-4-15 Reserved
Article C: Amendments
5-4-16   Introduction
5-4-17   Initiation of Amendment
5-4-18   Amendment Procedure
5-4-19 through 5-4-25 Reserved
Article D: Definitions
5-4-26   Interpretation of Words and Phrases
5-4-27   Definitions
5-4-28 through 5-4-30 Reserved
Article E: Establishment of Districts and District Map
5-4-31   Establishment of Districts
5-4-32   District Boundaries Established by Map
5-4-33   Interpretation of District Boundaries
5-4-34   Lots Divided by District Boundaries
5-4-35 through 5-4-40 Reserved
Article F: Application of Regulations
5-4-41   Zoning Affects All Lands, Buildings, and Structures
5-4-42   Regulations Regarded as a Minimum
5-4-43   One Principal Structure Per Lot
5-4-44   Compatibility with Other Ordinances
5-4-45   Access to Street Required
5-4-46   Reduction of Lot or Yard Area Prohibited
5-4-47   Rights-of-Way
5-4-48   Annexation
5-4-49   Nonconforming Uses or Structures
5-4-50 through 5-4-54 Reserved
Article G: District Regulations
5-4-55   R-12 Residential District
5-4-56   R-7 Medium Density Residential District
5-4-57   R-5 High Density Residential District
5-4-58   B-1 Central Business District
5-4-59   B-2 Highway Commercial District
5-4-60   B-3 Limited Commercial and Adult Entertainment District
5-4-61   B-4 Neighborhood Commercial
5-4-62   B-5 Interstate Highway Commercial District
5-4-63   I-1 Light Industrial
5-4-64   I-2 Basic Industrial
5-4-65   PD Planned Development District
5-4-66   Mobile Home District
5-4-67   RU Rural District
Dillon Historic Overlay District
5-4-68   Purpose
5-4-69   Designations
5-4-70   Establishment of Districts
5-4-71   Standards for Dillon Historic Designations
5-4-72   Board of Architectural Review (BAR)
5-4-73   Designation Process
5-4-74   Certificates of Appropriateness (COA)
5-4-75   Exclusions from Certificates of Appropriateness (COA)
5-4-76   Enforcement and Penalties
5-4-77   Certificate of Economic Hardship
5-4-78   Denials of COA and Appeals
5-4-79   Appeals Procedure
5-4-80   Hearing Procedure
5-4-81   Appeal from BAR to Circuit Court
5-4-82   Contempt and Penalty
5-4-83   Notice of Appeal, Transcript and Supersedeas
5-4-84   Determination of Appeal and Costs
5-4-85   Appeal to Supreme Court
5-4-86   Conflict with Other Laws
Board of Architectural Review By-Laws Organization
5-4-87   By-Laws
5-4-88   Purpose
5-4-89   Adoption and Amendments
5-4-90   Officers
5-4-91   Standing Committees
5-4-92   Professional Consultants
5-4-93   Compensation
Meetings
5-4-94   Time and Place
5-4-95   Agenda
5-4-96   Quorum
5-4-97   Attendance
5-4-98   Rules of Order
Certificate of Appropriateness
5-4-99   Pre-application Review Process
5-4-100   Applications
5-4-101   Approval
5-4-102   Denials
Interstate Highway Commercial District
5-4-103   B-5 Interstate Highway Commercial District
ARTICLE A: ADOPTION AND PURPOSE
Note: The following sections adopted by Ordinance No.______, date_______.
§ 5-4-1 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted pursuant to authority granted in
the South Carolina Local Government Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of
1994, S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310, et seq.(1994 Supp.) This chapter may be cited as
the City of Dillon Zoning Ordinance, 1998.
§ 5-4-1-1 VESTED RIGHTS TO DEVELOP PROPERTY.
Section 1.   Scope and Title.
   All applicable ordinances, municipal code sections, and regulations relating
to zoning, planning and land development within the corporate limits of the
City of Dillon are subject to this ordinance, which shall be known as the
Vested Rights to Develop Property Ordinance.
Section 2.   Definitions.
      (A)   Except as hereinafter set forth, the words, terms and phrases when
used in this ordinance shall have the meaning as set forth in S.C. Code § 6-29-
1520, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      (B)   "Site specific development plan", in addition and as a supplement
to the definition set forth in S.C. Code § 6-29-1520, as enacted by Act 287 of
2004, is further defined to mean those documents that comprise a complete
application for a zoning permit, certificate of zoning compliance, variance,
special exception, planned unit development, sketch plat or sketch plan,
preliminary or final subdivision plat approval, or other similar approval that
authorizes the landowner to proceed with investment in grading, installation of
utilities, streets, and other infrastructure, and to undertake other
significant expenditures necessary to prepare for application for a building
permit.
      (C)   "Vested right" means the right to undertake and complete the
development of property under the terms and conditions of a site specific
development plan or a phased development plan as provided in this article and
in the land development ordinances or regulations of the City of Dillon adopted
pursuant to this chapter.
Section 3.   Establishment and conditions of vested rights.
      (A)   A vested right to develop property in accord with a site specific
development plan is triggered upon the preliminary plat approval of the site
specific development plan by the City of Dillon Planning & Zoning Commission
and the payment to the City of Dillon of all applicable established fees.
      (B)   Except as hereinafter set forth, a vested right established by this
ordinance is subject to the conditions and limitations as set out in S.C. Code
§§ 6-29-1540 and 6-29-1550, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      (C)   A vested right for an approved site specific development plan shall
expire two (2) years after the date of final approval by the City of Dillon
Planning & Zoning Commission and any request for approval of an annual
extension of the vested right after the two (2) year vesting period shall be
and is hereby prohibited.
      (D)   A vested site specific development plan may be amended if the
amendment conforms to, or does not cause greater nonconformity with, the
current provisions of the City of Dillon Zoning, Planning and Land Development
Ordinances. Approval or conditional approval of an amendment does not re-set or
re-start the expiration period of a vested right.
      (E)   A vested right pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-1550 is not a personal
right, but attaches to and runs with the applicable real property. The
landowner and all successors to the landowner who secure a vested right
pursuant to this article may rely upon and exercise the vested right for its
duration subject to applicable federal, state, and local laws adopted to
protect public health, safety, and welfare including, but not limited to,
building, fire, plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes and nonconforming
structure and use regulations which do not provide for the grandfathering of
the vested right. This article does not preclude judicial determination that a
vested right exists pursuant to other statutory provisions. This article does
not affect the provisions of a development agreement executed pursuant to the
South Carolina Local Government Development Agreement Act in Chapter 31 of
Title 6.
      (F)   If real property having an approved vested site specific
development plan is annexed into the city limits of Dillon, the City of Dillon
Planning & Zoning Commission must determine, after notice and public hearing in
which the landowner is allowed to present evidence, if the vested right is
effective after the annexation.
      (G)   No vested rights are established for phased development plans,
including approved or conditionally approved phased development plans and
including phased development plans applicable to property proposed for
annexation. An approved or conditionally approved site specific development
plan is required prior to approval with respect to each phase of a phased
development plan.
      (H)   A vested right to a site specific development plan is subject to
revocation by the City of Dillon Planning & Zoning Commission upon its
determination, after notice and public hearing that there was a material
misrepresentation by the landowner or substantial noncompliance with the terms
and conditions of the original or amended approval.
Section 4.   Severability.
      Should any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed
unenforceable or invalid, then the remainder of the provisions herein shall not
be affected thereby and the same shall remain in full force and effect. The
Council of the City of Dillon hereby declares that it would have adopted this
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and provision herein,
even without the section(s), subsection(s), sentence(s), clause(s), or
provision(s) that are held to be enforceable or invalid.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 5-4-2 JURISDICTION AND PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land and improvements
within the corporate limits of the City of Dillon, South Carolina. The purpose
of the chapter is to guide development in accordance with existing and future
needs and to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order,
appearance, prosperity, and general welfare. The chapter is intended to
implement the land use element of the City of Dillon Comprehensive Plan.
ARTICLE B: ADMINISTRATION.
§ 5-4-6 CODE ENFORCEMENT DIRECTOR.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Code Enforcement Director (with the assistance of other City of Dillon staff as
designated by the City Council as code enforcement officers), who shall have
all the powers and duties authorized by statute or ordinance. The duties of the
Code Enforcement Director with regard to this chapter shall be:
   (A)   Interpretation of the terms and provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Administration of this chapter by the issuance of permits and
certificates, including the collection of authorized fees;
   (C)   Processing applications for appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals
from decisions of the Code Enforcement Director, and variances;
   (D)   Preparation of the record for appeal to circuit court from the
decisions of the Board of Zoning Appeals;
   (E)   Maintenance of a current zoning map, amendments to the zoning
ordinance, and all public records related to zoning and planning;
   (F)   Enforcement of the zoning ordinance and investigation and resolution
of zoning complaints;
   (G)   Administrative assistance to the Board of Zoning Appeals when
authorized;
   (H)   Such other duties as may be authorized in the administration of this
chapter.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-4-7 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits Required. No building, sign, or structure shall be erected,
moved, enlarged, altered or demolished and no use of land maybe changed without
a zoning permit as issued by the Code Enforcement Director. No zoning permit
shall be issued by the Code Enforcement Director except for a use which is in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Fees for Permits. A fee established by regulation by the City Council
shall be paid for each zoning permit or certificate of zoning compliance issued
by the Code Enforcement Director.
   (C)   Application for Zoning Permits.  Application for zoning permits shall
be accompanied by plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual
dimensions and shape of the lot to be used, the sizes and locations of existing
structures on the lot, and the location and dimensions of a proposed structure
or alteration. The application may contain such other information as may be
required by the Code Enforcement Director to determine compliance with this
chapter, including existing or proposed buildings or alterations, existing or
proposed uses of buildings and land, number of families, housekeeping units,
rental units, and existing conditions of the adjacent property. One (1) copy of
the plans shall be returned to the applicant with the signed approval or
disapproval of the Code Enforcement Director noted on the copy within fifteen
(15) days of receipt.
   (D)   Expiration of Permits. If the work described on the zoning permit has
not begun within six (6) months from the date of the permit, the permit shall
expire and be void upon written notice of the Code Enforcement Director.
§ 5-4-8 CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Certificates Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to use,
occupy, or permit the use or occupancy of any building or property hereafter
created, erected, changed, converted, altered, or enlarged, in whole or in
part, until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the Code
Enforcement Director stating that the proposed use conforms with the
requirements of this ordinance.
   (B)   Nonconforming Uses or Structures.  Uses or structures made
nonconforming by this ordinance may not continue without a certificate of
zoning compliance issued by the Code Enforcement Director which shall state
that the use or structure was in existence at the time of adoption or amendment
of this ordinance. The certificate of zoning compliance shall specify the
features which are nonconforming, and may be used to establish a vested
interest in continuation of the nonconformity.
   (C)   Temporary Uses. Certificates of zoning compliance may be issued and
renewed by the Code Enforcement Director for permitted temporary uses for the
times permitted by zoning district regulations.
§ 5-4-9 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Misdemeanor; Penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person to use
property, or for any person to construct, alter, enlarge, or demolish any
structure without a permit or permits required by this chapter. Conviction for
violation of this ordinance is punishable as a misdemeanor under the general
penalty provisions of the City Code.
   (B)   Withholding Permits. The Code Enforcement Director shall deny a zoning
permit for any use or work which fails to comply with this chapter. The Code
Enforcement Director, Building Official, or other appropriate official shall
withhold all other city permits for work which violates this chapter.
   (C)   Complaints. A written complaint specifying facts showing a violation
of this ordinance filed by any person shall be investigated by the Code
Enforcement Director. Upon determination that a violation has occurred, the
Code Enforcement Director shall take appropriate enforcement action authorized
by this ordinance.
   (D)   Stop Work. The Code Enforcement Director is authorized to issue a stop
work order pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-950(A) requiring work to cease until
specified code violations are corrected. Failure to comply with a stop work
order of the Code Enforcement Director is a misdemeanor punishable under the
general penalty provisions of the City Code. Issuance of a stop work order may
be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Arrest Warrant. The Code Enforcement Director, with concurrence of the
City Attorney, is authorized to request the issuance of an arrest warrant for
violations of this chapter.
   (F)   Injunction. The Code Enforcement Director shall submit a request to
the City Attorney for institution of a civil action seeking an injunction
prohibiting violation of this chapter when appropriate.
§ 5-4-10 APPEALS PROCESS.
5-4-10-1   Board Established.
      A Board of Appeals is hereby established. The Board shall consist of
seven (7) members appointed by the City Council for staggered terms of four (4)
years each. Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms in the same manner as
the original appointment. Members of the Board of Appeals may be removed by
City Council for cause.
5-4-10-2   Officers.
      The Board shall elect a Chairperson from its membership for a term of one
(1) year. The Board shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer of the city
approved by the City Administrator or a member of the Board. Other officers may
be elected by the Board as provided by its rules of procedure.
5-4-10-3   Rules of Procedure.
      The Board shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of its meetings.
A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum. Meetings of the Board
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson or at such times as the Board may
determine. Public notice of all meetings shall be posted at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the meeting in a newspaper of general circulation and shall be
posted at the City Hall. Notice for hearing on appeals shall also be posted at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing on or adjacent to the property
affected, with at least one notice visible from each public street abutting the
property. The Chairperson may administer oaths and compel attendance of
witnesses by subpoena. The Board shall keep minutes of its meetings, showing
the vote of each member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote by
reason of conflict, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions filed in the office of the secretary of the Board.
   5-4-10-4   Duties of the Board.
      The Board of Appeals has the following powers and duties:
      (A)   Appeal from the Code Enforcement Director.  Any person aggrieved by
a decision of the Code Enforcement Director may appeal that decision to the
Board of Appeals in writing on a form provided by the Code Enforcement
Director. Such appeal must be within fifteen (15) days after final notice of
the decision of the Code Enforcement Director. An appeal stays the
implementation of the decision of the Code Enforcement Director unless he
certifies to the Board of Appeals that a stay would cause imminent peril to
life or property. The Board may affirm or reverse, wholly or in part, or may
modify the decision of the Code Enforcement Director by a written order
separately stating findings of fact and conclusions of law within fifteen (15)
days after the meeting.
      (B)   Variances.   An owner or agent may appeal to the Board on a form
provided by the Code Enforcement Director for a variance from the requirements
of this ordinance when the strict application of regulations would result in
unnecessary hardship. A variance may be granted only if the Board makes all of
the following findings and conclusions in a written order:
         (1)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular piece of property;
         (2)   These conditions do not generally apply to property in the
vicinity;
         (3)   Because of these conditions, the application of this ordinance
to the particular piece of property would effectively prohibit or unreasonably
restrict the utilization of the property;
         (4)   The authorization of the variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property or to the public good, and the character of the
district will not be harmed by the granting of the variance;
         (5)   The effect of the variance would not allow the establishment of
a use not otherwise permitted in the zoning district, would not extend
physically a nonconforming use of land, and would not change the zoning
district boundaries shown on the Official Zoning Map.
         The fact that a property may be utilized more profitably, should a
variance be granted, may not be considered grounds for a variance. In granting
a variance, the Board may attach to it such conditions regarding the location,
character, or other features of the proposed building, structure or use as the
Board may consider advisable to protect established property values in the
surrounding area, or to promote public health, safety, or general welfare.
Failure to begin or complete an action for which a variance is granted within
the time limit specified as a condition of the variance shall void the
variance.
5-4-10-5   Appeal to Circuit Court.
      A person having a substantial interest in a decision of the Board of
Appeals, or an officer of the city authorized by the City Council, may appeal a
decision of the Board to circuit court by petition for review on the grounds
that the decision is contrary to law. The appeal shall be filed with the Clerk
of Court and the Secretary of the Board within thirty (30) days after the
decision of the Board has been mailed. Within thirty (30) days after the
receipt of notice of filing a petition, the Code Enforcement Director or the
secretary of the Board, with assistance from the City Attorney, shall file with
the Clerk of Court a certified copy of the Board proceedings, including a
transcript of evidence and findings and conclusions of the Board.
ARTICLE C: AMENDMENTS
§ 5-4-16 INTRODUCTION.
   The regulations, restrictions, and zoning districts set forth in this
ordinance may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed
by the City Council, after consultation with the Planning Commission, and in
accordance with the following procedures.
§ 5-4-17 INITIATION OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   An amendment to the zoning ordinance text or Zoning Map may be
initiated by an adopted motion of the City Council, an adopted motion of the
Planning Commission, by the Code Enforcement Director, or by a property owner
or an agent authorized by the owner in writing to request rezoning.
   (B)   Amendment requests shall be initiated using a form provided by the
Code Enforcement Director, accompanied by the required documents and
information, a plat of the property showing the names of surrounding property
owners, and a filing fee established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Amendment requests should be received at least thirty (30) days prior
to a regular meeting of the Planning Commission in order to ensure that they
will be heard at that meeting.
§ 5-4-18 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   Following the initiation of an amendment request, the following steps are
required for the adoption of a text or Map amendment:
   (A)   The proposed amendment application shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for review and recommendation. The Planning Commission shall review
the request at an open meeting at which the person initiating the request may
be allowed to make written or oral presentations. If oral or written comments
are taken from the applicant, the Planning Commission shall give other
interested members of the public an opportunity to make comments at the
meeting. The review of the amendment request by the Planning Commission shall
include a determination of whether the proposed amendment is in conformity with
the City of Dillon Comprehensive Plan. The Planning Commission shall file with
the City Council its report and recommendation on the proposed amendment within
forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the amendment application.
   (B)   Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment. Newspaper notice of the public hearing shall be published at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
the community.
   (C)   For amendments which request a change to the Zoning Map, notices of
the public hearing shall be posted on or adjacent to the property which is
proposed to be rezoned, with one (1) notice visible from each street bordering
the property.
   (D)   For amendments which request a change to the Zoning Map, notices of
public hearing shall be mailed to all adjacent land owners and to groups which
have filed a written request for notices.
   (E)   The amendment ordinance may be introduced for first reading of the
City Council on the same date as the public hearing on the amendment.
   (F)   The City Council may adopt or reject the amendment ordinance on second
reading at least six (6) days after the first reading. Map amendments may be
adopted or rejected for all or any portion of the properties being requested. A
zoning district designation which was not included in the public notices shall
not be adopted. An amendment may be withdrawn in writing by the initiator at
any time prior to final action by the City Council.
   (G)   All amendments shall be noted and placed in the copy of the zoning
ordinance maintained by the Code Enforcement Director and/or the Municipal
Clerk. Map amendments shall be reflected on the official Zoning Map as soon as
practicable after their approval.
   (H)   A fee of fifty dollars ($50) shall accompany each application for
amendment.
(Am. Ord. 02-06, passed 4-8-2002)
ARTICLE D: DEFINITIONS
§ 5-4-26 INTERPRETATION OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   The following rules of construction and interpretation shall apply to the
text of this ordinance:
   (A)   Words used in this ordinance shall have their customary meaning as
defined in a standard dictionary, unless they are specifically defined in this
ordinance.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Singular
words include the plural, and plural words include the singular.
   (C)   The word SHALL indicates a mandatory statement; the word MAY indicates
a discretionary statement.
   (D)   The word LOT includes the word PLAT or PARCEL.
   (E)   The word STRUCTURE  includes the word building, and the words building
or structure include any part thereof.
   (F)   The word PERSON includes an individual, firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, company, corporation, or any other entity
usually defined in legal usage as a person.
   (G)   The words USED or OCCUPIED , as applied to land or buildings, shall be
construed to include the words intended, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied.
   (H)   The word CONTIGUOUS as applied to lots or districts shall be
interpreted as meaning sharing a common boundary of ten (10) feet or more in
length.
§ 5-4-27 DEFINITIONS.
   Except when definitions are specifically included in the text of this
ordinance, words shall be interpreted in accordance with the meaning set forth
in this section. In cases of conflict regarding any definition, the Code
Enforcement Director shall rule on any contested definition or on any
interpretation of the meaning of words or phrases used in this ordinance.
   ACCESSORY USE. A building or use of land which is customarily incidental or
subordinate to the principal use of building and is located on the same lot
with the principal use or building. Examples of ACCESSORY USES  include:
garages, workshops, playhouses, storage buildings, swimming pools, decks,
patios, greenhouses, and other such uses.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way used or intended to be used primarily for
service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting a street.
An ALLEY is not considered to be a street for the purposes of this ordinance.
   ALTERATION OF BUILDING. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, or girders; any addition or reduction to a
building.
   ANTENNA. Any device for radiating or receiving electromagnetic waves,
including but not limited to, radio, television, telephone, communication,
microwave, and satellite dish antennae.
   APARTMENT. A portion of a building consisting of one (1) or more rooms
intended to be used as a residence by an individual or family.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied dwelling offering transient lodging to
the public, with or without meals, in which not more than six (6) rooms are
rented.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling in which single rooms are rented on a short-term
or long-term basis, with or without meals. A structure in which ten (10) or
more rooms are rented shall be classified as a motel or hotel.
   BODY PIERCING. Any method of piercing of the human skin of one (1) person by
another person with the intent of inserting any object including but not
limited to jewelry. The term BODY PIERCING shall also include any process of
marking and disfiguring the skin or other tissue of any person by branding or
scarification but shall not include the piercing of the fatty lobe of the ear
by an ear piercing gun designed solely for that purpose, or physician
authorized surgical procedures. This definition of BODY PIERCING shall also
include the process commonly referred to as implantation.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot which may be used or built upon in
accordance with zoning district regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, processes,
equipment, or property.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale food products,
household items, gasoline sales, and other goods commonly associated with daily
use, and having a gross floor area of less than four thousand eight hundred
(4,800) square feet.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. A state licensed facility providing care, supervision, or
guidance for unrelated persons, unaccompanied by their parent or guardian, on a
regular basis for periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours per day. This
definition includes day nurseries, kindergartens, nursery schools, day care
centers, adult day care centers, but does not include educational facilities
for grades one and above, day care services operated for employees of a
business, or summer camps or schools.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per net acre of developed land,
excluding land devoted to streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, schools, or
other public uses.
   DISTRICT. A geographical area assigned a zoning district designation
pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance. The district boundaries are shown
on the Official Zoning Map.
   DWELLING. Any building used or intended for human habitation, including any
permitted home occupation, but excluding hotels, motels, boarding houses, and
tourist courts.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling occupied by three (3) or more families or
living units where the common areas are under one ownership. Examples of MULTI-
FAMILY DWELLINGS include apartments, condominiums, cooperatives, and similar
structures.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling, other than a manufactured
home, which is designed and intended for occupancy by one (1) family unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached dwelling, other than a manufactured home,
containing two (2) separate dwelling units, commonly known as a duplex. These
dwellings may be rental units or owner-occupied, and generally the common areas
are under one ownership.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling containing one (1) or more rooms, commonly with
cooking and bathroom facilities, intended as a place of residence for one (1)
family.
   FAMILY. One (1) or more persons related by blood or marriage, or not more
than five (5) unrelated persons, occupying a single dwelling unit. Domestic
employees may be included within a FAMILY.
   GROUP HOME. An institution in a single-family dwelling providing room,
board, and some personal assistance in feeding, dressing, or other living
activities for nine or fewer individuals not related to the operator. GROUP
HOMES may include housing for mentally or physically disabled persons, but this
definition does not include hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, convalescent
homes, boarding homes, or homes for orphans or the aged.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A customary occupation, profession, or trade carried on by
an occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly incidental
and subordinate to the residential character of the dwelling unit, and which
does not involve more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total floor area of
the dwelling unit.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building in which lodging for pay is offered to the
public, with or without meals, for transient or permanent guests, containing
ten (10) or more rooms.
   JUNK, SALVAGE, SCRAP, OR WRECKING YARDS. Any use involving storage,
processing, or recycling of inoperable, unused, dismantled, or wrecked
vehicles, equipment, machinery, scrap metal, or other scrap, salvage, or junk
materials.
   LOT. An area, plot, parcel, or tract of land defined by metes and bounds in
a deed or plat recorded in the land records of the county.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between front and rear property
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which has frontage on more than one (1) street,
other than an alley. Corner lots do not have double frontage unless they have
frontage on three (3) or more streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, with only one (1) street
frontage.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front
building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Any structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which in the traveling mode is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty
(40) body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred
twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT. A category of land developments which
includes subdivisions and parks for two (2) or more manufactured homes. Sales
or storage lots for unoccupied manufactured housing units are not manufactured
home developments. Note: The terms manufactured homes and mobile homes are used
interchangeably in this document.
   MINIWAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings on a fenced, controlled
access lot which contain individual locked compartments for storage of personal
property.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling, including the necessary plumbing, heating,
ventilating, and other service systems, manufactured off-site and transported
to the point of use for installation or erection, with or without specified
components, as a finished building and not designed for ready removal to
another site. All modular homes constructed since 1985 must be certified by the
South Carolina Building Code Council or other inspectors recognized by the
Building Codes Council. For the purposes of this ordinance, modular homes are
defined as single-family or multi-family residences and are allowed in all
districts in which these residential uses are allowed. Note: The terms
manufactured homes and mobile homes are used interchangeably in this document.
   NONCONFORMITY. A term applied to lots, structures, uses of land and
structures, and characteristics of uses which were lawful before the passage or
amendment of this ordinance, but which would be prohibited by this ordinance or
are not in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance. Such
nonconformities are permitted to continue until they are removed, but their
survival, enlargement, or extension is not encouraged.
   PARK. An area or facility intended to be used for recreation, play,
exercise, sports, or similar activities, or an area intended to enhance the
enjoyment of natural features or natural beauty, including public and private
areas, but specifically excluding commercially operated amusement parks, and
similar facilities.
   PARKING LOT. A public or private open lot for parking motor vehicles as a
principal use or as an accessory use to a commercial, industrial, or public
use.
   PARKING SPACE. An area which is sufficient in shape and size for parking one
(1) motor vehicle.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The significant or primary activity carried out within a
structure or upon land as contrasted to accessory uses which are incidental or
subordinate to principal uses.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A non-profit organization created to provide recreational or
cultural opportunities, including golf clubs, country clubs, tennis clubs,
swimming clubs, lodges and similar activities. For-profit businesses are not
included.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without a
permanent foundation which can be towed, hauled, or driven and which is
primarily designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational camping
use. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES  include travel trailers, truck campers, camping
trailers, and self-propelled motor homes. A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall not be
considered a permanent dwelling, and this definition shall not include
manufactured homes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A site with improvements and utilities for the
temporary parking of three (3) or more recreational vehicles for periods not to
exceed ninety (90) days, which shall include services and facilities for the
recreational vehicle owner. Manufactured homes are expressly prohibited.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electrical transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or other special use. An area or
strip of land, either public or private, on which an irrevocable right of
passage has been recorded for the use of vehicles or pedestrians or both.
   SERVICE STATION. A retail establishment designed to provide fuel, tires,
minor adjustments, repairs and lubrication services to automobiles, trucks, and
motorcycles. SERVICE STATIONS may include the limited sale of groceries and
household goods and may provide auto washing services, but may not involve the
storage of wrecked or dismantled vehicles or parts.
   SETBACK. The depth and width of any required open space; the minimum
distance between any building and an adjacent lot, or street; the SETBACK is
required to be unoccupied and unobstructed by any building or structure except
for walls or fences, flagpoles; clothes lines, bird houses, utility rights-of-
way, accessory buildings, and other yard accessories. SETBACK AREAS are
measured from the applicable property or lot line or the street.
   SIGN. Any device designed to inform, advertise, or attract attention, such
as a billboard, poster, painted surface, announcement, display, ribbon,
pennant, flag, banner, illustration, insignia, whether lighted or unlighted,
stationary or moving.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment which is not conducted, sold, or offered on the
premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign used to disseminate information concerning a
business, service, activity, or product which is conducted, offered, or sold
upon the premises where such sign is located.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign on the premises bearing the name of a
subdivision, farm, group housing development, business or industrial park,
school, college, park, church, or other public or quasi-public facility, but
bearing information pertaining only to the premises on which the sign is
located. City of Dillon entrance signs are considered to be IDENTIFICATION
SIGNS.
   SIGN, MOBILE (PORTABLE). A non-fixed sign permitted for a period of time,
not to exceed ninety (90) days, which directs attention to a business, service,
activity, or product sold, conducted, or offered upon the premises on which the
sign is located.
   SIGN, OCCUPANCY. A sign on the premises bearing the name or address of the
property, the name of the owner or resident or any permitted home occupation,
but bearing information only pertaining to the premises on which the sign is
located.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign, banner, poster, or display intended to be displayed
for a limited period of time, including political signs and for sale signs.
   STREET. A dedicated public right-of-way which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property and which has been accepted for maintenance by the
city or the S.C. Department of Transportation. For the purposes of this
ordinance, the term STREET or STREETS shall also mean avenues, boulevards,
roads, lanes, and other public ways.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to the ground, including buildings,
factory built housing, signs, mobile and portable signs, swimming pools,
fences, and antennae, but excluding minor landscaping features such as
ornamental pools, planting boxes, bird baths, paved surfaces, walkways,
driveways, recreational equipment, flagpoles, and mailboxes.
   TATTOO, TATTOOING. To indelibly mark or color the skin by the subcutaneous
introduction of non-toxic dyes or pigments unless performed by a licensed
physician or surgeon if permitted by law.
   VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning chapter
where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VIDEO POKER ESTABLISHMENTS. Any establishment wherein one (1) or more
electronic video game machines that, upon insertion of a coin or cash or tokens
purchased for coins or cash, are available to play or simulate the play of
games utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which a player may
receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. Any establishment
wherein any device authorized under S.C. Code § 16-19-60 may be located. Video
poker machines shall not be considered as an accessory use to any other use and
shall not be permitted as home occupations.
   YARD, REQUIRED. The open space between a lot line and the building area
within which no structure may be located except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. All yards referred to in this chapter are minimum required yards.
   YARD, FRONT. A FRONT YARD is an open unoccupied space on the same lot with a
main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the
front line of the lot and the front line of the building projected to the side
lines of the lot. The depth of the FRONT YARD shall be measured between the
front line of the building and the property line; covered porches, whether
enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and
shall not project into a required yard.
   YARD, REAR. A REAR YARD  is an open space on the same lot with the main
building unoccupied except as hereinafter permitted, extending the full width
of the full lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line
of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the REAR
YARD shall be measured between the rear line of the lot, or the center line of
the alley, if there be an alley, and the rear line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A SIDE YARD is an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with
the main building, situated between the side extending from the rear line of
the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If there be no front yard,
the front boundary of the SIDE YARD shall be the front line of the lot; and if
there be no rear yard, the rear boundary of the side yard shall be the rear
line of the lot.
   Except when definitions are specifically included in the text of the City of
Dillon Zoning Regulation, words shall be interpreted in accordance with the
meaning set forth in this section. In cases of conflict regarding any
definition, the Code Enforcement Director shall rule on any contested
definition or on any interpretation meaning of words or phrases used in the
City of Dillon Zoning Regulation.
(Am. Ord. 04-13, passed 10-11-2004)
ARTICLE E: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT MAP
§ 5-4-31 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the City of Dillon is hereby divided
into the following zoning districts:
R-12 Single-Family Residential District     (formerly R-15)
R-7  Medium Density Residential District    (formerly R-10)
R-5  High Density Residential District      (formerly R-6)
B-1  Central Business District              (formerly B-1)
B-2  Highway Commercial District            (formerly B-2)
B-3  Limited Commercial and Office District (formerly B-2)
B-4  Neighborhood Commercial District       (formerly B-2)
B-5  Interstate Highway Commercial District
I-1  Light Industrial District              (formerly I)
I-2  Heavy Industrial District              (formerly I)
PD   Planned Development District           (formerly I)
MHD  Mobile Home District                   (formerly Overlay)
 
   (B)   The purposes of the districts and the permitted uses within each
district are described in Article G of this ordinance.
§ 5-4-32 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED BY MAP.
   The boundaries of the above districts are hereby established as shown on the
map entitled Zoning Map of Dillon, South Carolina. The Map, together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this ordinance. The official copy of the Zoning Map of Dillon shall be
maintained in the office of the Code Enforcement Director. A duplicate copy
shall be maintained in the office of the Municipal Clerk. All zoning district
boundaries shall be clearly shown on the Zoning Map, and amendments to the Map
shall be recorded immediately after adoption. The official copies of the Zoning
Map shall be dated and attested by the Municipal Clerk, and shall be available
for public inspection. The official Zoning Map and any amendments adopted by
the Dillon City Council shall constitute the final authority for determination
of district boundaries. It shall be unlawful for any person to make
unauthorized changes to the Zoning Map.
§ 5-4-33 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zoning district, the
following general rules of interpretation shall apply. It shall be the duty of
the Code Enforcement Director to interpret the location of district boundaries.
   (A)   A zoning district name or letter of letter/number combination placed
on the Zoning Map will show that the regulations pertaining to the district so
designated extend throughout the whole area bounded by the district boundary
line.
   (B)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following the center
lines of streets, highways, alleys, railroads, streams, or bodies of water
shall be construed to follow those center lines.
   (C)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines of tax map lot lines shall be construed as following those lot lines.
   (D)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following municipal
boundaries shall be construed as following those municipal boundaries.
   (E)   District boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to or
extensions of features indicated in subsections above shall be so construed for
the distances indicated on the Zoning Map. Distances not specifically indicated
shall be determined by the scale of the Map.
§ 5-4-34 LOTS DIVIDED BY DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   When a district boundary line as appearing on the Zoning Map divides a lot
in single ownership at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, or
subsequent amendment, into two (2) or more different districts, the Board of
Zoning Appeals may permit, as a special exception, the extension of the
regulations for either portion of the lot, not to exceed fifty (50) feet beyond
the district line into the remaining portion of the lot.
ARTICLE F: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
§ 5-4-41 ZONING AFFECTS ALL LANDS, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building, structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity with the
regulations specified in this ordinance for the zoning district in which it is
located.
§ 5-4-42 REGULATIONS REGARDED AS A MINIMUM.
   Within each zoning district, the regulations set forth by this ordinance
shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land. In their
interpretation and application, the provisions of this ordinance shall be held
to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety, or general welfare.
§ 5-4-43 ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE PER LOT.
   No more than one (1) principal structure and its customary accessory
structures may hereafter be erected on any lot, except as otherwise provided by
this ordinance.
§ 5-4-44 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   When requirements of this ordinance are at variance with requirements of any
other applicable rule, regulation, ordinance, or statute, the most restrictive
requirements, or those imposing the highest standards, shall apply.
§ 5-4-45 ACCESS TO STREET REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, no building shall be located,
used, or occupied on a lot without direct vehicular and pedestrian access to a
public street.
§ 5-4-46 REDUCTION OF LOT OR YARD AREA PROHIBITED.
   No building or other structure shall hereafter be created or altered which
occupies a greater percentage of the lot area than permitted or which creates a
smaller setback on the front, side or rear than is specified for the district
in which it is located. No lot shall hereafter be created or altered which is
below the applicable district minimum requirement.
§ 5-4-47 RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Public rights-of-way or private easements for streets and roads shall not be
considered as a part of a lot or open space, or front, rear, or side yard
setback for the purpose of meeting lot dimension or area or setback
requirements.
§ 5-4-48 ANNEXATION.
   When property is annexed into the City of Dillon, the following procedure
shall be followed:
   (A)   The City Council shall seek a recommendation from the Dillon Planning
Commission for a recommended zoning district or districts for an area to be
annexed.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall recommend a zoning classification, based
on the existing Dillon County zoning classifications relating to the property
(when adopted by Dillon County) and on the existing City of Dillon zoning
classifications for adjacent parcels within the city limits.
   (C)   The City Council shall consider this recommendation and shall specify
a zoning classification in the ordinance annexing the territory.
§ 5-4-49 NONCONFORMING USES OR STRUCTURES.
   It is the intent of this ordinance to permit nonconforming uses or
structures to continue until they are removed but not to encourage their
survival. Nonconformities are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved. The lawful use of any structure
or land in existence on the effective date of this ordinance may be continued
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   A nonconforming manufactured or mobile home shall not be changed to
any other nonconforming use or structure. However, any nonconforming
residential manufactured or mobile home may be replaced within ninety (90) days
after its removal with another nonconforming residential manufactured or mobile
home, provided the number of dwelling units is not increased.
   (B)   An existing permitted use in a structure which is on a nonconforming
lot or which does not meet minimum yard requirements may be converted to
another permitted use, as long as the structure is not enlarged.
   (C)   Any non-conforming structure, or any structure containing a
nonconforming use, which has been damaged by fire or other causes may be
reconstructed and used as before, if a permit is secured within six (6) months
of the date of such damage, unless fifty percent (50%) or more of the
structure, as determined by the Code Enforcement Director, has been destroyed.
If more than fifty percent (50%) of the structure has been destroyed, future
use of the structure or site must be in conformance with the zoning district
regulations for the area. Nonconforming residential uses may be replaced with
like uses in any district, subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (D)   When a nonconforming use of land ceases for a continuous period of
ninety (90) days, subsequent use of the land shall conform to the regulations
of the district in which the land is located.
   (E)   When the active operation of the use of a nonconforming structure is
discontinued for ninety (90) consecutive days, the use shall not be resumed.
The subsequent use shall conform to the regulations of the district in which
the property is located.
   (F)   Nonconforming uses of land or structures existing at the time of
adoption of this ordinance shall not hereafter be enlarged or extended in any
way.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prevent work on a structure which is
necessary to protect public safety upon the order of the Code Enforcement
Director.
   (H)   Ordinary repairs to a nonconforming structure, such as repairs to
interior walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing to meet building codes, may be
permitted, provided the cubic content of the structure is not increased.
   (I)   A temporary use permit may be issued for a period not to exceed one
(1) year for nonconforming buildings, structures or uses incidental to building
construction or land development or deemed to be generally beneficial, upon
condition that the structure or use be removed upon expiration of the permit.
   (J)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this ordinance, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record on the effective date of this ordinance, provided the
front, side, and rear yard requirements for the district in which the lot is
located are met. This provision shall apply even though such lots fail to meet
the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in
the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those
applying to the area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the
regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
   (K)   Such nonconformities are permitted to continue until they are removed,
but their survival, enlargement or extension is not encouraged.
ARTICLE G: DISTRICT REGULATIONS
   The following zoning districts are established to apply to all the land
within the corporate limits of the City of Dillon. Locations of the district
boundaries are shown on the Official Zoning Map.
§ 5-4-55 R-12 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This district is established to provide for quiet, low-density residential
neighborhoods. The district is intended to discourage any use which, because of
its character, would interfere with the residential character of the district.
5-4-55-1   Uses Permitted.
Bed and breakfast inns in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-2
Commercial horticulture or agriculture (excluding farm animals)
Group homes in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-3
Home occupations in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-4
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Public and private schools
Single-family detached dwellings
Signs in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-5
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-6
Conditional uses of cluster housing and townhouses in accordance with the
provisions of
Title 5, Chapter 5, Land Development Regulations
 
(Am. Ord. 02-11, passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. 16-14, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-55-2   Bed and Breakfast Inns.
      The following requirements shall apply to bed and breakfast inns:
      (A)   The property owner shall live at the inn;
      (B)   Not more then six (6) rooms shall be rented to guests;
      (C)   Meals shall be served to registered guests only;
      (D)   No cooking facilities shall be allowed in guest rooms;
      (E)   Only short-term lodging shall be provided; monthly rentals shall be
prohibited;
      (F)   Use as a bed and breakfast inn shall produce no alteration or
change in character or exterior appearance of the principal building from that
of a dwelling;
      (G)   A sign is permitted, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-5;
      (H)   Parking is required, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-7.
5-4-55-3   Group Homes.
      Group homes are intended to provide living arrangements for mentally or
physically disabled persons in a neighborhood environment. Group homes provide
twenty-four (24) hour care for nine (9) or fewer persons and are approved or
licensed by a state agency or department or under contract with an agency or
department for that purpose. Residents of a group home are perceived as a
natural family as if related by blood or marriage. Following are specific
procedures for locating such a home:
      (A)   Prior to locating the home, the owner or operator must give prior
notice to the local governing body advising of the exact site of the proposed
home.
      (B)   The notice must identify the individual responsible for site
selection.
      (C)   If the local governing body objects to the selected site, it must
notify the individual responsible for site selection within fifteen (15) days
of receiving the notice. It must also appoint a representative to assist in
selecting a comparable, alternate site. This triggers the following actions:
         (1)   The site selection representative of the entity and the
representative of the governing body must select a third, mutually agreeable
person to assist with the selection.
         (2)   The three (3) people have forty-five (45) days to make a final
site selection by majority vote.
         (3)   This final site selection is binding on both the proposing
entity and the governing body.
      (D)   In the event no selection is made by the end of the forty-five (45)
day period, the entity establishing the home shall select the site without
further proceedings.
      (E)   An application for a variance is not required.
      (F)   The licensing agency must screen prospective residents of these
homes to ensure that the placement is appropriate.
      (G)   The licensing agency shall conduct reviews of these homes at least
every six (6) months to promote the rehabilitative purposes of the homes and to
confirm compatibility with their neighborhoods.
      (H)   If the City of Dillon determines that other requirements of this
ordinance or other ordinances are violated by these procedures, it may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive or such other relief as the
court may consider proper.
5-4-55-4   Home Occupations.
      Home occupations are permitted in the R-12 District. The following
requirements shall apply to home occupations:
      (A)   Only members of the family residing on the premises shall be
engaged in the occupation;
      (B)   The occupation shall not involve the retail sale of merchandise
manufactured off the premises;
      (C)   No display of merchandise shall be visible from the street;
      (D)   The occupation shall not, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement
Director, create a nuisance or cause undue disturbance in the neighborhood due
to noise, fumes, or other impacts from the operation of the occupation;
      (E)   A sign may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-55-5;
      (F)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
5-4-55-7;
      (G)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. An accessory
building may be used for home occupations, provided it is no larger than five
hundred (500) square feet.
5-4-55-5   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each residence or other principal building shall
have posted on the front exterior of the building the proper street address,
with numerals a minimum of three (3) inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the R-
12 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-55-5(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the R-12 District.
         (1)   One (1) non-illuminated occupancy sign or nameplate not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of the
principal building in which a permissible home occupation is located.
         (2)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (3)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (4)   One (1) illuminated non-flashing sign identifying a bed and
breakfast inn, providing it is located on the premises and does not exceed four
(4) square feet and providing it is no closer than five (5) feet to a property
line.
         (5)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (6)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (7)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, group home, multi-family housing
project, retirement home, cemetery, public recreation area, or other permitted
use, provided the sign is located on the premises.
         (8)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet, provided the sign is located on the premises.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-55-6   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-55-7   Off-Street Parking.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required. Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Each application for a building
permit, zoning permit, or certificate of occupancy shall include a plan showing
the space reserved for off-street parking and the means of ingress to and
egress from such space. This information shall be in a format sufficient for
the Code Enforcement Director to determine if the requirements of this section
are met.
      (B) Travel or Camping Trailers. 
         (1)   Not more than one (1) travel or camping trailer for each family
living on the premises shall be permitted on a lot in the R-12 Residential
District.
         (2)   Travel or camping trailers are allowed to be parked or stored
only in the rear yard and side yard on a lot in the R-12 Residential District.
         (3)   No travel or camping trailers shall be permitted to be parked
within the front yard on a lot in the R-12 Residential District.
         (4)   Travel or camping trailers shall not be occupied temporarily or
permanently while parked or stored in the R-12 Residential District.
      (C)   Commercial Vehicles.
         (1)    No commercial tractor trailers, farm vehicles, tankers or
commercial buses (excluding church buses, school buses or Pee Dee Regional
Transportation Authority buses) shall be permitted to be parked or stored in
the R-12 Residential District.
         (2)   Commercial tractors are allowed to be parked in the R-12
Residential District only at the principal residence of the driver and shall
meet all minimum setback requirements in accordance with §
5-4-55-8.
         (3)   Parking of commercial tractors shall be limited to one (1)
vehicle per principal residence of the driver. Idling of the engine of
commercial tractors parked on residential premises shall not exceed five (5)
minutes.
         (4)   It shall be prohibited for anyone to perform preventative
maintenance on commercial tractors when parked on residential premises.
(Exception: Minor emergency repairs such as battery replacement.)
(Am. Ord. 00-17, passed 7-10-2000; Am. Ord. 08-26, passed 11-10-2008)
      (D)   Accessibility. Parking areas shall meet the requirements of the
South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for accessibility to disabled
persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Bed and breakfast inn        Two (2) spaces for the owner, plus one (1) space
                             for each room for rent
                             One (1) space for each vehicle owned or operated
Elementary school            by or for the school, plus two (2) spaces for each
                             classroom and office
                             One (1) space for each resident advisor, plus one
Group home                   (1) space for each agency vehicle used to
                             transport clients
                             One (1) space for each one hundred (100) square
Home occupation              feet of space devoted to the home occupation, plus
                             the normal residential requirement
                             One (1) space for each vehicle owned or operated
Junior high or middle school by or for the school, plus two (2) spaces for each
                             classroom and office
                             One (1) space for each two hundred (200) square
Public utility building      feet of floor space available to the public, plus
                             one (1) space for each employee
                             One (1) space for each four (4) students, plus one
                             (1) space for each faculty member and employee
Senior high school           plus one (1) space for each vehicle owned and
                             operated by and for the school, or one (1) space
                             for each four (4) seats in the auditorium,
                             whichever is larger
Single-family dwelling       Two (2) spaces
 
   (G)   Dump trucks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any dump truck to
allow such vehicle to be stored or parked within the (R-12) Residential
District inside the corporate city limits of Dillon.
      (2)   "Dump Truck" means a commercial heavy-duty vehicle with a dump body
and hydraulic system to include an open bed that is designed to transport sand,
gravel, dirt, asphalt, demolition debris and similar loose materials to or from
a work site and dump the load with an affixed powered hoist system.
      (3)   However, this section shall not apply to infrequent, short-term
parking for conveying materials to premises where labor using such materials is
being performed, all only during the time such parking is actually necessary,
is hereby accepted from this section.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 13-07, passed 10-14-2013; Am. Ord.
24-12, passed 8-12-2024)
5-4-55-8   Lot Size and Setbacks.
      (A)   Minimum lot size and setbacks shall be in accordance with the
following schedule of dimensional requirements:
 
Minimum lot area           15,000 square feet
Lot width at building line 80 feet
Front setback minimum      35 feet
Side setback minimum       10 feet
Rear setback minimum       30 feet
 
      (B)   An accessory building or use may be located within the rear
setback, provided that it is not located closer than four (4) feet to any
property line. Structures on corner lots shall observe the front yard
requirements of the street which they face. Side yard requirements on corner
lots shall be ten (10) feet greater than the minimum setback on the side of the
lot facing the street. No accessory building on the corner lot shall extend
beyond the building line of structures facing the intersecting street; provided
that this requirement shall not be applied so as to reduce the building width
of a corner lot of record at the time of passage of this ordinance to less than
thirty (30) feet.
5-4-55-9   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures permitted above the height limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers (except communication towers),
masts, and other similar structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the
district height limit. However, such structures shall be separated from any
adjoining lot line of a lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one
(1) foot for each two (2) feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-55-10   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-55-11   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-55-12   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-55-13   Housing Construction Standards.
      All conventionally constructed homes located in the City of Dillon shall
be built under inspection by the Building Inspector and shall comply with the
applicable Southern Standard Building Codes as adopted and amended by the South
Carolina Building Code Council.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-4-56 R-7 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This residential district is designed to provide for a protected residential
environment with a higher density than the R-12 District. The land uses
permitted include single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, and the
related recreational, cultural, and educational facilities required to provide
an attractive and convenient residential neighborhood.
5-4-56-1   Permitted Uses.
Bed and breakfast inns in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-2
Boarding houses
Cemeteries
Churches and other places of worship
Commercial horticulture or agriculture (excluding farm animals)
Family day care homes in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-14 (excluding childcare facilities such as childcare centers and group
childcare homes engaged in business activities of providing daycare services)
Group homes in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-3
Home occupations in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-4
Multi-family dwellings in accordance with the provisions of
Title 5, Chapter 5, Land Development Regulations
Private clubs for golf, tennis, swimming, and similar activities, provided all
structures are set back from the property lines at least fifty (50) feet
Public recreation uses or facilities
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Public and private schools
Retirement homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes
Single-family detached dwellings
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-5
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-6
Two-family dwellings (duplexes)
Cluster housing and townhouses in accordance with the provisions of
Title 5,
Chapter 5, Land Development Regulations
 
(Am. Ord. 02-11, passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. 09-11, passed 6-8-2009; Am. Ord.
16-14, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-56-2   Bed and Breakfast Inns.
      The following requirements shall apply to bed and breakfast inns:
      (A)   The property owner shall live at the inn;
      (B)   Not more than six (6) rooms shall be rented to guests;
      (C)   Meals shall be served to registered guests only;
      (D)   No cooking facilities shall be allowed in guest rooms;
      (E)   Only short-term lodging shall be provided; monthly rentals shall be
prohibited;
      (F)   Use as a bed and breakfast inn shall produce no alteration or
change in character or exterior appearance of the principal building from that
of a dwelling;
      (G)   A sign is permitted, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-5;
      (H)   Parking is required, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-56-7.
5-4-56-3   Group Homes.
      Group homes are intended to provide living arrangements for mentally or
physically disabled persons in a neighborhood environment. Group homes provide
twenty-four (24) hour care for nine (9) or fewer persons and are approved or
licensed by a state agency or department or under contract with an agency or
department for that purpose. Residents of a group home are perceived as a
natural family as if related by blood or marriage. Following are specific
procedures for locating such a home:
      (A)   Prior to locating the home, the owner or operator must give prior
notice to the local governing body advising of the exact site of the proposed
home.
      (B)   The notice must identify the individual responsible for site
selection.
      (C)   If the local governing body objects to the selected site, it must
notify the individual responsible for site selection within fifteen (15) days
of receiving the notice. It must also appoint a representative to assist in
selecting a comparable, alternate site. This triggers the following actions:
         (1)   The site selection representative of the entity and the
representative of the governing body must select a third, mutually agreeable
person to assist with the selection.
         (2)   The three (3) people have forty five (45) days to make a final
site selection by majority vote.
         (3)   This final site selection is binding on both the proposing
entity and the governing body.
      (D)   In the event no selection is made by the end of the forty-five (45)
day period, the entity establishing the home shall select the site without
further proceedings.
      (E)   An application for a variance is not required.
      (F)   The licensing agency must screen prospective residents of these
homes to ensure that the placement is appropriate.
      (G)   The licensing agency shall conduct reviews of these homes at least
every six (6) months to promote the rehabilitative purposes of the homes and to
confirm compatibility with their neighborhoods.
      (H)   If the City of Dillon determines that other requirements of this
ordinance or other ordinances is violated by these procedures, it may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive or such other relief as the
court may consider proper.
5-4-56-4   Home Occupations.
      Home occupations are permitted in residential zones. The following
requirements shall apply to home occupations:
      (A)   Only members of the family residing on the premises shall be
engaged in the occupation;
      (B)   The occupation shall not involve the retail sale of merchandise
manufactured off the premises;
      (C)   No display of merchandise shall be visible from the street;
      (D)   The occupation shall not, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement
Director, create a nuisance or cause undue disturbance in the neighborhood due
to noise, fumes, or other impacts from the operation of the occupation;
      (E)   No sign shall be permitted, except one (1) non-illuminated
nameplate not more than two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the
wall of the principal building in which the occupation is conducted; sign
regulations are included at §
5-4-56-5;
      (F)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions set forth in §
5-4-56-7;
      (G)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. An accessory
building may be used for home occupations, provided it is no larger than five
hundred (500) square feet.
5-4-56-5   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each residence or other principal building shall
have posted on the front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a
minimum of three (3) inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the R-
7 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-56-5(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the R-7 District.
         (1)   One (1) non-illuminated occupancy sign or nameplate not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of the
principal building in which a permissible home occupation is located.
         (2)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (3)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (4)   One (1) illuminated non-flashing sign identifying a bed and
breakfast inn or boarding house, providing it is located on the premises and
does not exceed four (4) square feet and providing it is no closer than five
(5) feet to a property line.
         (5)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (6)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (7)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, group home, multi-family housing
project, retirement home, cemetery, public recreation area, or other permitted
use, provided the sign is located on the premises.
         (8)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet, provided the sign is located on the premises.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-56-6   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-56-7   Off-Street Parking.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required.  Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Each application for a building
permit, zoning permit, or certificate of occupancy shall include a plan showing
the space reserved for off-street parking and the means of ingress to and
egress from such space. This information shall be in a format sufficient for
the Code Enforcement Director to determine if the requirements of this section
are met.
      (B) Travel or Camping Trailers. 
         (1)   Not more than one (1) travel or camping trailer for each family
living on the premises shall be permitted on a lot in the R-7 Residential
District.
         (2)   Travel or camping trailers are allowed to be parked or stored
only in the rear yard and side yard on a lot in the R-7 Residential District.
         (3)   No travel or camping trailers shall be permitted to be parked
within the front yard on a lot in the R-7 Residential District.
         (4)   Travel or camping trailers shall not be occupied temporarily or
permanently while parked or stored in the R-7 Residential District.
      (C)   Commercial Vehicles.
         (1)   No commercial tractor trailers, farm vehicles, tankers or
commercial buses (excluding church buses, school buses or Pee Dee Regional
Transportation Authority buses) shall be permitted to be parked or stored in
the R-7 Medium Density Residential District.
         (2)   Commercial tractors are allowed to be parked in the R-
7 Residential District only at the principal residence of the driver and shall
meet all minimum setback requirements in accordance with §
5-4-56-8.
         (3)   Parking of commercial tractors shall be limited to one (1)
vehicle per principal residence of the driver. Idling of the engine of
commercial tractors parked on residential premises shall not exceed five (5)
minutes.
         (4)   It shall be prohibited for anyone to perform preventive
maintenance on commercial tractors when parked on residential premises.
(Exception: Minor emergency repairs such as battery replacement.)
(Am. Ord. 00-17, passed 7-10-2000; Am. Ord. 08-26, passed 11-10-2008)
      (D)   Accessibility. Parking areas shall meet the requirements of the
South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for accessibility to disabled
persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long. In parking lots of more than ten (10) spaces,
not more than twenty percent (20%) of the spaces may be designated for compact
vehicles and may have dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet
long. Aisles for ingress and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty
(20) feet in width for head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width
for angled lot arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Bed and breakfast inn                  Two (2) spaces for the owners, plus one
                                       (1) space for each room for rent
Boarding house                         One (1) space for each room for rent
Church or place of worship             One (1) space for each four (4) seats in
                                       the sanctuary or assembly room
Day care facility                      One (1) space for each adult attendant
Dwelling, single-family and two-family Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit
Dwelling, multi-family                 One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces for each
                                       dwelling unit
                                       One (1) space for each vehicle owned or
Elementary school                      operated by or for the school, plus two
                                       (2) spaces for each classroom and office
                                       One (1) space for each resident advisor,
Group home                             plus one (1) space for each agency
                                       vehicle used to transport clients
                                       One (1) space for each one hundred (100)
Home occupation                        square feet of space devoted to the home
                                       occupation, plus the normal residential
                                       requirement
                                       One (1) space for each vehicle owned or
Junior high or middle school           operated by or for the school, plus two
                                       (2) spaces for each classroom and office
Nursing, retirement home               One (1) space for each five (5) beds or
                                       rooms intended for patient use
Public or private club                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                       square feet of gross floor space
                                       One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building                square feet of floor area available to
                                       the public, plus one (1) space for each
                                       employee
                                       One (1) space for each four (4)
                                       students, plus one (1) space for each
                                       faculty member and employee plus one (1)
Senior high school                     space for each vehicle owned and
                                       operated by or for the school, or one
                                       (1) space for each four (4) seats in the
                                       auditorium, whichever is larger
Stadium                                One (1) space for each four (4)
                                       spectator seats
 
   (G)   Dump trucks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any dump truck to
allow such vehicle to be stored or parked within the (R-7) Medium Density
Residential District inside the corporate city limits of Dillon.
      (2)   "Dump Truck" means a commercial heavy-duty vehicle with a dump body
and hydraulic system to include an open bed that is designed to transport sand,
gravel, dirt, asphalt, demolition debris and similar loose materials to or from
a work site and dump the load with an affixed powered hoist system.
      (3)   However, this section shall not apply to infrequent, short-term
parking for conveying materials to premises where labor using materials is
being performed, all only during the time such parking is actually necessary,
is hereby accepted from this section.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 13-07, passed 10-14-2013; Am. Ord.
24-12, passed 8-12-2024)
5-4-56-8   Lot Size and Setbacks.
   (A)   Minimum lot size and setbacks shall be in accordance with the
following schedule of dimensional requirements:
 
Minimum lot area      10,000 square feet for single-family dwelling
                      16,000 square feet for two-family dwellings
Front setback minimum 30 feet
Side setback minimum  9 feet
Rear setback minimum  25 feet
 
   (B)   An accessory building or use may be located within the rear setback,
provided that it is not located closer than four (4) feet to any property line.
Structures on corner lots shall observe the front yard requirements of the
street which they face. Side yard requirements on corner lots shall be ten (10)
feet greater than the minimum setback on the side of the lot facing the street.
No accessory building on the corner lot shall extend beyond the building line
of structures facing the intersecting street; provided that this requirement
shall not be applied so as to reduce the building width of a corner lot of
record at the time of passage of this ordinance to less than thirty (30) feet.
5-4-56-9   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers (except communications towers),
masts, and other similar structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the
district height limit. However, such structures shall be separated from any
adjoining lot line of a lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one
(1) foot for each two (2) feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-56-10   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-56-11   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-56-12   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
5-4-56-13   Housing Construction Standards.
      All conventionally constructed homes located in the City of Dillon shall
be built under inspection by the Building Inspector and shall comply with the
applicable International Building Codes as adopted and amended by the South
Carolina Building Code Council.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-56-14   Family Day Care Homes (R-7) District.
      (A)   Definitions.
         In addition to the definitions which follow, words not defined herein
shall have the meanings stated in the latest edition of the South Carolina
Department of Social Services Regulations for Family Day Care Homes:
         CAREGIVER means any person whose duties include direct care,
supervision, and guidance of children in a family day care home.
         CHILDCARE OPERATOR means the person ultimately responsible for the
overall operation of the family day care home.
         FAMILY DAY CARE HOME means a state licensed or approved registered
facility within a residence occupied by the operator in which childcare is
provided on a regular basis for periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours per
day for no more than six (6) children, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian, including those children living in the home and children received for
childcare who are related to the resident caregiver.
         INFANT means a child age twelve (12) months or younger.
         MINOR CHILD means a person who has not reached the eighteenth
birthday.
         REGISTRATION means the process whereby all family day care homes are
licensed/approved and regulated in accordance with the provisions of the latest
edition of the South Carolina Department of Social Services Regulations and
South Carolina Child Care Licensing Law for Family Day Care Homes.
         RELATED means any of the following relationships by marriage, blood,
or adoption: parent, grandparent, brother, sister, stepparent, stepsister,
stepbrother, uncle, aunt, cousin of the first degree.
         REGULARLY, OR ON A REGULAR BASIS: these terms refer to the frequency
with which childcare services are available and provided at a family day care
home in any one (1) week; these terms mean the availability and provision of
periods of daycare less than twenty-four (24) hours per day in such week, in a
place other than the child's or the children's own home or homes.
      (B)   Application Procedure.
         Applications for family day care homes within a (R-7) Residential
District shall be submitted for approval to the Zoning Board of Appeals and
shall include the following information and any reasonable additional
information requested:
         (1)   Childcare operator must own the property of the proposed day
care location or provide a letter of approval from the property owner giving
approval and authorization to the childcare operator to operate a family day
care home at that location.
         (2)   The family day care home hours of operation must be reviewed and
approved by the Board. No after dark operating hours are permitted.
         (3)   A clearly identified children's drop-off and pick-up zone must
be identified.
         (4)   Off-street parking for employees and two (2) visitor slots are
required.
         (5)   A Recreation Plan must be submitted to the Board. The Board will
review the plan for location, visibility, congestion, safety and other factors.
No outdoor recreation activities shall be permitted before 9:00 a.m.
         (6)   An exterior lighting plan must be submitted to, and approved by
the Board.
         (7)   No activities associated with family day care homes, except
drop-off and pick-up of children, may take place in the front yard of the day
care location.
         (8)   Family day care home recreation activities must be located
within the rear of the yard and enclosed by a brick, masonry, chain linked or
other similar fence which cannot be buckled or moved by a seventy-five (75)-
pound child running into the fence. Such fence must be constructed in such a
way that will prevent a child from easily climbing over or going under the
fence. The recreation area must be a minimum of four hundred fifty (450) square
feet for one (1) to six (6) children.
         (9)   No external sign shall exceed one (1) square foot. Signs must be
non-illuminated, non-animated and shall be attached to the house.
         (10)   The front of the family day care home must be landscaped to
appear as a residence.
         (11)   The family day care home and grounds must be kept painted,
moved and clean at all times.
         (12)   The color of the family day care home must be homogeneous with
the neighborhood.
      (C)   Business License Required.
         A business license is required prior to engaging in business as a
family day care home. No business license shall be issued to a childcare
operator of a proposed family day care home until the location has been
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals and a registered and/or licensed
approval has been obtained from the South Carolina Department of Social
Services for compliance with the regulations for family day care homes.
      (D)   Conflict with other Laws, Ordinances, Regulations and Restrictive
Covenants.
         Whenever the requirements made under authority of these regulations
impose higher standards than are required in any statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenants, provisions of the regulations shall
govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenants impose higher standards than are required
by these regulations, the provisions of such statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenant shall apply.
(Ord. 09-10, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 5-4-57 R-5 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This district is intended to provide for a similar mix of uses as the R-
7 District, but to allow for a slightly higher density.
5-4-57-1   Permitted Uses.
Bed and breakfast inns in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-2
Boarding houses
Cemeteries
Churches and other places of worship
Commercial horticulture or agriculture (excluding farm animals)
Family day care homes in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-14 (excluding childcare facilities such as childcare centers and group
childcare homes engaged in business activities of providing daycare services)
Group homes in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-3
Home occupations in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-4
Multi-family dwellings in accordance with the provisions of
Title 5, Chapter 5, Land Development Regulations
Private clubs for golf, tennis, swimming, and similar activities, provided all
structures are set back from the property lines at least fifty (50) feet
Public recreation uses or facilities
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Public and private schools
Retirement homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes
Single-family detached dwellings
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-5
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-6
Two-family dwellings (duplexes)
Cluster housing and townhouses in accordance with the provision of
Title 5, Chapter 5, Land Development Regulations
 
(Am. Ord. 02-11, passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
09-11, passed 6-8-2009; Am. Ord. 16-14, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-57-2   Bed and Breakfast Inns.
      The following requirements shall apply to bed and breakfast inns:
      (A)   The property owner shall live at the inn;
      (B)   Not more than six (6) rooms shall be rented to guests;
      (C)   Meals shall be served to registered guests only;
      (D)   No cooking facilities shall be allowed in guest rooms;
      (E)   Only short-term lodging shall be provided; monthly rentals shall be
prohibited;
      (F)   Use as a bed and breakfast inn shall produce no alteration or
change in character or exterior appearance of the principal building from that
of a dwelling;
      (G)   A sign is permitted, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-5;
      (H)   Parking is required, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-57-7.
5-4-57-3   Group Homes.
      Group homes are intended to provide living arrangements for mentally or
physically disabled persons in a neighborhood environment. Group homes provide
twenty-four (24) hour care for nine (9) or fewer persons and are approved or
licensed by a state agency or department or under contract with an agency or
department for that purpose. Residents of a group home are perceived as a
natural family as if related by blood or marriage. Following are specific
procedures for locating such a home:
      (A)   Prior to locating the home, the owner or operator must give prior
notice to the local governing body advising of the exact site of the proposed
home.
      (B)   The notice must identify the individual responsible for site
selection.
      (C)   If the local governing body objects to the selected site, it must
notify the individual responsible for site selection within fifteen (15) days
of receiving the notice. It must also appoint a representative to assist in
selecting a comparable, alternate site. This triggers the following actions:
         (1)   The site selection representative of the entity and the
representative of the governing body must select a third, mutually agreeable
person to assist with the selection.
         (2)   The three (3) people have forty-five (45) days to make a final
site selection by majority vote.
         (3)   This final site selection is binding on both the proposing
entity and the governing body.
      (D)   In the event no selection is made by the end of the forty-five (45)
day period, the entity establishing the home shall select the site without
further proceedings.
      (E)   An application for a variance is not required.
      (F)   The licensing agency must screen prospective residents of these
homes to ensure that the placement is appropriate.
      (G)   The licensing agency shall conduct reviews of these homes at least
every six (6) months to promote the rehabilitative purposes of the homes and to
confine compatibility with their neighborhoods.
      (H)   If the City of Dillon determines that other requirements of this
ordinance or other ordinances is violated by these procedures, it may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive or such other relief as the
court may consider proper.
5-4-57-4   Home Occupations.
      Home occupations are permitted in residential zones. The following
requirements shall apply to home occupations:
      (A)   Only members of the family residing on the premises shall be
engaged in the occupation;
      (B)   The occupation shall not involve the retail sale of merchandise
manufactured off the premises;
      (C)   No display of merchandise shall be visible from the street,
      (D)   The occupation shall not, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement
Director, create a nuisance or cause undue disturbance in the neighborhood due
to noise, fumes, or other impacts from the operation of the occupation;
      (E)   No sign shall be permitted, except one (1) non-illuminated
nameplate not more than two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the
wall of the principal building in which the occupation is conducted; sign
standards are found in §
5-4-57-5;
      (F)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions set forth in §
5-4-57-7;
      (G)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. An accessory
building may be used for home occupations, providing it is no larger than two
hundred fifty (250) square feet.
5-4-57-5   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Sign Required. Each residence or other principal building shall
have posted on the front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a
minimum of three (3) inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the R-
5 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-57-5(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination.  Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the R-5 District.
         (1)   One (1) non-illuminated occupancy sign or nameplate not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of the
principal building in which a permissible home occupation is located.
         (2)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (3)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (4)   One (1) illuminated non-flashing sign identifying a bed and
breakfast inn or boarding house, providing it is located on the premises and
does not exceed four (4) square feet and providing it is no closer than five
(5) feet to a property line.
         (5)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (6)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (7)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, group home, multi-family housing
project, retirement home, cemetery, public recreation area, or other permitted
use, providing it is located on the premises.
         (8)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet, providing it is located on the premises.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-57-6   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-57-7   Off-Street Parking.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required.  Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Each application for a building
permit, zoning permit, or certificate of occupancy shall include a plan showing
the space reserved for off-street parking and the means of ingress to and
egress from such space. This information shall be in a format sufficient for
the Code Enforcement Director to determine if the requirements of this section
are met.
      (B)   Travel or Camping Trailers.
         (1)   Not more than one (1) travel or camping trailer for each family
living on the premises shall be permitted on a lot in the R-5 Residential
District.
         (2)   Travel or camping trailers are allowed to be parked or stored
only in the rear yard and side yard on a lot in the R-5 Residential District.
         (3)   No travel or camping trailers shall be permitted to be parked
within the front yard on a lot in the R-5 Residential District.
         (4)   Travel or camping trailers shall not be occupied temporarily or
permanently while parked or stored in the R-5 Residential District.
      (C)   Commercial Vehicles.
         (1)   No commercial tractor trailers, farm vehicles, tankers or
commercial buses (excluding school buses, church buses or Pee Dee Regional
Transportation Authority buses) shall be permitted to be parked or stored in
the R-5 High Density Residential District.
         (2)   Commercial tractors are allowed to be parked in the R-
5 Residential District only at the principal residence of the driver and shall
meet all minimum setback requirements in accordance with §
5-4-57-8.
         (3)   Parking of commercial tractors shall be limited to one (1)
vehicle per principal residence of the driver. Idling of the engine of
commercial tractors parked on residential premises shall not exceed five (5)
minutes.
         (4)   It shall be prohibited for anyone to perform preventive
maintenance on commercial tractors when parked on residential premises.
(Exception: Minor emergency repairs such as battery replacement.)
(Am. Ord. 00-17, passed 7-10-2000; Am. Ord. 08-26, passed 11-10-2008)
      (D)   Accessibility. Parking areas shall meet the requirements of the
South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for accessibility to disabled
persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long. In parking lots of more than ten (10) spaces,
not more than twenty percent (20%) of the spaces may be designated for compact
vehicles and may have dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet
long. Aisles for ingress and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty
(20) feet in width for head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width
for angled lot arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Bed and breakfast inn                Two (2) spaces for the owners, plus one
                                     (1) space for each room for rent
Boarding house                       One (1) space for each room for rent
Church or place of worship           One (1) space for each four (4) seats in
                                     the sanctuary or assembly room.
Day care facility                    One (1) space for each adult attendant
Dwelling, single-family, two-family, Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit
and manufactured home
Dwelling, multi-family               One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces for each
                                     dwelling unit
                                     One (1) space for each vehicle owned or
Elementary school                    operated by or for the school, plus two
                                     (2) spaces for each classroom and office
                                     One (1) space for each resident advisor,
Group home                           plus one (1) space for each agency
                                     vehicle used to transport clients
                                     One (1) space for each one hundred (100)
Home occupation                      square feet of space devoted to the home
                                     occupation, plus the normal residential
                                     requirement
                                     One (1) space for each vehicle owned or
Junior high or middle                operated by or for the school, plus two
                                     (2) spaces for each classroom and
                                     office.
Nursing, retirement home             One (1) space for each five (5) beds or
                                     rooms intended for patient use
Public or private club               One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                     square feet of gross floor space
                                     One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building              square feet of floor area available to
                                     the public, plus one (1) space for each
                                     employee
                                     One (1) space for each four (4)
                                     students, plus one (1) space for each
                                     faculty member and employee plus one (1)
Senior high school                   space for each vehicle owned and
                                     operated by or for the school, or one
                                     (1) space for each four (4) seats in the
                                     auditorium, whichever is larger
Stadium                              One (1) space for each four (4)
                                     spectator seats
 
   (G)   Dump trucks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any dump truck to
allow such vehicle to be stored or parked within the (R-5) High Density
Residential District inside the corporate city limits of Dillon.
      (2)   "Dump Truck" means a commercial heavy-duty vehicle with a dump body
and hydraulic system to include an open bed that is designed to transport sand,
gravel, dirt, asphalt, demolition debris and similar loose materials to or from
a work site and dump the load with an affixed powered hoist system.
      (3)   However, this section shall not apply to infrequent, short-term
parking for conveying materials to premises where labor using materials is
being performed, all only during the time such parking is actually necessary,
is hereby accepted from this section.
(Ord. 13-07, passed 10-14-2013; Am. Ord. 24-12, passed 8-12-2024)
5-4-57-8   Lot Size and Setbacks.
   (A)   Minimum lot size and setbacks shall be in accordance with the
following schedule of dimensional requirements:
 
Minimum lot area      6,000 square feet for single-family dwelling 8,000 square
                      feet for two-family dwellings
Front setback minimum 25 feet
Side setback minimum  8 feet
Rear setback minimum  20 feet
 
   (B)   An accessory building or use may be located within the rear setback,
provided that it is not located closer than four (4) feet to any property line.
Structures on corner lots shall observe the front yard requirements of the
street which they face. Side yard requirements on corner lots shall be ten (10)
feet greater than the minimum setback on the side of the lot facing the street.
No accessory building on the corner lot shall extend beyond the building line
of structures facing the intersecting street; provided that this requirement
shall not be applied so as to reduce the building width of a corner lot of
record at the time of passage of this ordinance to less than thirty (30) feet.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-57-9   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers (except communications towers),
masts, and other similar structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the
district height limit. However, such structures shall be separated from any
adjoining lot line of a lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one
(1) foot for each two (2) feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-57-10   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-57-11   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-57-12   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Building Inspector shall comply with applicable Federal Emergency
Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in the issuance
of any zoning permit.
5-4-57-13   Housing Construction Standards.
      All conventionally constructed homes located in the City of Dillon shall
be built under inspection by the Building Inspector and shall comply with the
applicable International Building Codes as adopted and amended by the South
Carolina Building Code Council.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-57-14   Family Day Care Homes (R-5) District.
      (A)   Definitions.
         In addition to the definitions which follow, words not defined herein
shall have the meanings stated in the latest edition of the South Carolina
Department of Social Services Regulations for Family Day Care Homes:
         CAREGIVER means any person whose duties include direct care,
supervision, and guidance of children in a family day care home.
         CHILDCARE OPERATOR means the person ultimately responsible for the
overall operation of the family day care home.
         FAMILY DAY CARE HOME means a state licensed or approved registered
facility within a residence occupied by the operator in which childcare is
provided on a regular basis for periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours per
day for no more than six (6) children, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian, including those children living in the home and children received for
childcare who are related to the resident caregiver.
         INFANT means a child age twelve (12) months or younger.
         MINOR CHILD means a person who has not reached the eighteenth
birthday.
         REGISTRATION means the process whereby all family day care homes are
licensed/approved and regulated in accordance with the provisions of the latest
edition of the South Carolina Department of Social Services Regulations and
South Carolina Child Care Licensing Law for Family Day Care Homes.
         RELATED means any of the following relationships by marriage, blood,
or adoption: parent, grandparent, brother, sister, stepparent, stepsister,
stepbrother, uncle, aunt, cousin of the first degree.
         REGULARLY, OR ON A REGULAR BASIS: these terms refer to the frequency
with which childcare services are available and provided at a family day care
home in any one (1) week; these terms mean the availability and provision of
periods of daycare less than twenty-four (24) hours per day in such week, in a
place other than the child's or the children's own home or homes.
      (B)   Application Procedure.
         Applications for family day care homes within an (R-5) Residential
District shall be submitted for approval to the Zoning Board of Appeals and
shall include the following information and any reasonable additional
information requested:
         (1)   Childcare operator must own the property of the proposed day
care location or provide a letter of approval from the property owner giving
approval and authorization to the childcare operator to operate a family day
care home at that location.
         (2)   The family day care home hours of operation must be reviewed and
approved by the Board. No after dark operating hours are permitted.
         (3)   A clearly identified children's drop-off and pick-up zone must
be identified.
         (4)   Off-street parking for employees and two (2) visitor slots are
required.
         (5)   A Recreation Plan must be submitted to the Board. The Board will
review the plan for location, visibility, congestion, safety and other factors.
No outdoor recreation activities shall be permitted before 9:00 a.m.
         (6)   An exterior lighting plan must be submitted to, and approved by
the Board.
         (7)   No activities associated with family day care homes, except
drop-off and pick-up of children, may take place in the front yard of the day
care location.
         (8)   Family day care home recreation activities must be located
within the rear of the yard and enclosed by a brick, masonry, chain linked or
other similar fence which cannot be buckled or moved by a seventy-five (75)-
pound child running into the fence. Such fence must be constructed in such a
way that will prevent a child from easily climbing over or going under the
fence. The recreation area must be a minimum of four hundred fifty (450) square
feet for one (1) to six (6) children.
         (9)   No external sign shall exceed one (1) square foot. Signs must be
non-illuminated, non-animated and shall be attached to the house.
         (10)   The front of the family day care home must be landscaped to
appear as a residence.
         (11)   The family day care home and grounds must be kept painted,
mowed and clean at all times.
         (12)   The color of the family day care home must be homogeneous with
the neighborhood.
      (C)   Business License Required.
         A business license is required prior to engaging in business as a
family day care home. No business license shall be issued to a childcare
operator of a proposed family day care home until the location has been
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals and a registered and/or licensed
approval has been obtained from the South Carolina Department of Social
Services for compliance with the Regulations for Family Day Care Homes.
      (D)   Conflict with other Laws, Ordinances, Regulations and Restrictive
Covenants.
         Whenever the requirements made under authority of these regulations
impose higher standards than are required in any statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenants, provisions of the regulations shall
govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenants impose higher standards than are required
by these regulations, the provisions of such statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenant shall apply.
(Ord. 09-10, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 5-4-58 B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (FORMERLY B-1 DISTRICT).
   This district is created to provide for and promote the city area as a
central core for retail, service, and public uses to serve the entire
community. Because the central business area has a high density, off-street
parking and loading facilities are not required for individual properties or
uses.
5-4-58-1   Uses Permitted.
Apartments located in existing or new buildings on floor levels that do not
exit immediately to ground level
Clubs, lodges, civic, fraternal, social, or similar non-profit organizations on
floor levels that do not exit immediately to ground level
Convenience stores
Day care facilities
Finance, insurance, and real estate offices, including banks and loan offices
Government buildings or facilities
Hotels
Offices for commercial, personal, medical, legal, and other services
Parking lots
Public utility substations and facilities
 
 
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise on premises, including food
stores, retail stores, automobile dealers, service stations, apparel and
accessories, eating and drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail
sale of prepared food and drinks which also serve alcoholic beverages as a
subordinate to meals for on-premises consumption (but excluding alcoholic
drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic
drink, such as night clubs, saloons, taverns, wine bars, beer garden drinking
places, beer parlor tap rooms, beer taverns, bottle club drinking places and
alcoholic beverage bar drinking places primarily providing services such as
beer, ale, wine, whiskey and liquor for on-premises consumption. Manufactured
home sales lots, boat, and trailer lots are also hereby excluded)
Services to individuals and businesses, including personal services, social
services, business supplies and services, amusement and recreation,
entertainment, health services, and repair services and rental services for
household items (but excluding establishments primarily engaged in internet
sweepstakes)
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-58-2
Telephone, telegraph, radio, and television services, but excluding
communication towers
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-58-3
 
      (A)   Definitions.
         ALCOHOLIC DRINKING PLACE means an establishment that is primarily
devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests on the
premises, deriving fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of
alcohol and in which the serving of meals is only incidental to the consumption
of such beverages.
         INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES ESTABLISHMENT means an establishment where
customers are primarily devoted to buy time online and play video “sweepstakes”
games for cash prizes or purchase internet time that allows the user to receive
points or credits that are then used to play, in many instances, casino-like
computer games to potentially win more points redeemable for cash and/or where
customers are primarily devoted to giving donation for a product or other thing
of value (i.e., phone card, internet time), which credits the customer with
free points or other measurable units that may be risked by the customer for an
opportunity to win money.
         MEALS means an assortment of various prepared foods which shall be
available to guests on the licensed premises during normal mealtimes which
occur when the licensed business establishment is open to the public.
Sandwiches, boiled eggs, sausages and other snacks prepared off the licensed
premises but sold thereon, shall not constitute a meal. The business must have
a menu or a posted listing of available meals. Hot meals must be prepared at
least once each day the business is open for business.
         PRIMARILY means for the most part of a business activity engaged in by
a business establishment.
         RESTAURANT means an establishment that is primarily devoted to the
serving of food and drinks for consumption by guests on the premises, deriving
fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of food and drinks in
which the serving of alcoholic drinks is only incidental to the consumption of
such meals. The business must have a Class A restaurant license from the
Department of Health and Environmental Control and must have a kitchen that is
used solely for the preparation, serving and disposal of solid foods that make
up meals to include seating for not less than forty (40) persons simultaneously
at tables for the service of meals.
(Am. Ord. 11-16, passed 12-12-2011; Am. Ord. 23-09, passed 5-8-2023)
5-4-58-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the B-
1 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-58-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the B-1 District.
         (1)   Applicable signs permitted in residential districts.
         (2)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The total area
of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the front surface of the building facing either a public pedestrian or
vehicular way, or a parking lot.
         (3)   Business signs mounted flat against the rear and/or side surface
of the building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The
total area of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the rear and side surface of the building facing either a
public pedestrian or vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (4)   Business signs suspended under canopies, providing that such
signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per building entrance.
            (b)   Be a minimum of nine (9) feet above the sidewalk surface.
            (c)    Not to exceed three (3) square feet in total area.
         (5)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (6)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (7)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (8)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (9)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, civic or fraternal, group home,
lodge, public recreation area, or social organization may be located in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South Carolina Department of
Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
         (10)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet may be located in the public rights-of-way or private easements of streets
and roads within the corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South
Carolina Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-58-3   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-58-4   Off-Street Parking.
      There are no off-street parking requirements in the B-1 district.
5-4-58-5   Lot Sizes and Setbacks.
      There are no lot size or setback requirements for the B-1 district. On
lots adjacent to a district where residences are permitted, there shall be a
setback on the side abutting the residential district of not less than the
minimum width required in the district it abuts.
5-4-58-6   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers (except communication towers),
masts, and other similar structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the
district height limit. However, such structures shall be separated from any
adjoining lot line of a lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one
(1) foot for each two (2) feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-58-7   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-58-8   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-58-9   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
§ 5-4-59 B-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (FORMERLY B-2 DISTRICT).
   This district is designed to provide for the functional grouping and
development of commercial land uses which are primarily oriented toward
customers traveling by automobile.
5-4-59-1   Permitted Uses.
Bingo parlors
Building material suppliers, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and
electrical sales and service
Churches and other places of worship
Cluster housing and townhouses in accordance with the provisions of Title 5,
Chapter 4, Dillon Land Development Regulations
Clubs, lodges, civic, fraternal, social, or similar non-profit organizations
Convenience stores
Day care facilities
Finance, insurance, and real estate offices, including banks and loan offices
Funeral homes and mortuaries
Garages and auto repair facilities
Government buildings or facilities
Horticultural nurseries and greenhouses
Hotels and motels
Mini-warehouses
Multi-family dwellings in accordance with the provisions of Title 5, Chapter 5,
Land Development Regulations
Offices for commercial, personal, medical, legal and other services
Parking lots, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-59-4
Printing plants for newspapers and other printers
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Recreational vehicle parks, in association with a hotel or motel, and subject
to the provisions of §
5-4-59-11
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise on premises, including food
stores, retail stores, automobile dealers, service stations, apparel and
accessories, eating and drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail
sale of prepared food and drinks which may also serve alcoholic beverages as a
subordinate to meals for on-premises consumption (but excluding alcoholic
drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic
drinks, such as night clubs, saloons, taverns, wine bars, beer garden drinking
places, beer parlor tap rooms, beer taverns, bottle club drinking places,
cabarets, cocktail lounges, discotheque alcoholic beverages, tap room drinking
places and alcoholic beverage bar drinking places primarily providing services
such as beer, ale, wine, whiskey and liquor for on-premises consumption.
Manufactured home sales lots, boat and trailer sales lots are also hereby
excluded)
Retirement homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes
Sales lots for manufactured homes, farm machinery, truck trailers and campers,
and other equipment requiring outdoor storage
Services to individuals and businesses, including personal services, social
services, business supplies and services, amusement, entertainment, health
services, auto washing facilities, repair services, and rental services (but
excluding establishments primarily engaged in internet sweepstakes)
Shopping centers, containing uses permitted in the district (see Dillon Land
Development Regulations for development standards)
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-59-2
Telephone, telegraph, radio, and television services
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-59-3
Veterinary services and animal shelters
 
      (A)   Definitions.
         ALCOHOLIC DRINKING PLACE means an establishment that is primarily
devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests on the
premises, deriving fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of
alcohol and in which the serving of meals is only incidental to the consumption
of such beverages.
         INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES ESTABLISHMENT means an establishment where
customers are primarily devoted to buy time online and play video “sweepstakes”
games for cash prizes or purchase internet time that allows the user to receive
points or credits that are then used to play, in many instances, casino-like
computer games to potentially win more points redeemable for cash and/or where
customers are primarily devoted to giving donation for a product or other thing
of value (i.e., phone card, internet time), which credits the customer with
free points or other measurable units that may be risked by the customer for an
opportunity to win money.
         MEALS means an assortment of various prepared foods which shall be
available to guests on the licensed premises during normal mealtimes which
occur when the licensed business establishment is open to the public.
Sandwiches, boiled eggs, sausages and other snacks prepared off the licensed
premises but sold thereon, shall not constitute a meal. The business must have
a menu or a posted listing of available meals. Hot meals must be prepared at
least once each day the business is open for business.
         PRIMARILY means for the most part of a business activity engaged in by
a business establishment.
         RESTAURANT means an establishment that is primarily devoted to the
serving of food and drinks for consumption by guests on the premises, deriving
fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of food and drinks in
which the serving of alcoholic drinks is only incidental to the consumption of
such meals. The business must have a Class A restaurant license from the
Department of Health and Environmental Control and must have a kitchen that is
used solely for the preparation, serving and disposal of solid foods that make
up meals to include seating for not less than forty (40) persons simultaneously
at tables for the service of meals.
(Am. Ord. 02-11, passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
11-16, passed 12-12-2011)
5-4-59-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the B-
2 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-59-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal-line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the B-2 District.
         (1)   Applicable signs permitted in residential districts.
         (2)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The total area
of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the front surface of the building facing either a public pedestrian or
vehicular way, or a parking lot.
         (3)   Business signs mounted flat against the rear and/or side surface
of the building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The
total area of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the rear and side surface of the building facing either a
public pedestrian or vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (4)   Business signs, free standing, for each business on the premises
under separate management, providing that:
            (a)   Such signs shall be limited to one (1) per one hundred (100)
feet of lot frontage along a major street.
            (b)   No portion of such signs shall extend over any structure or
property line.
            (c)   Such signs shall be not higher than thirty (30) feet nor
lower than ten (10) feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or
pavement
            (d)   Such signs shall not exceed one hundred thirty (130) square
feet in total area.
         (5)   Business signs, for shopping centers, in accordance with the
standards set forward in the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations.
         (6)   Business signs suspended under canopies, providing that such
signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per building entrance.
            (b)   Be a minimum of nine (9) feet above the sidewalk surface.
            (c)   Not to exceed three (3) square feet in total area.
         (7)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (8)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (9)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (10)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (11)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, civic or fraternal, group home,
lodge, public recreation area, or social organization may be located in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South Carolina Department of
Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
         (12)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet may be located in the public rights-of-way or private easements of streets
and roads within the corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South
Carolina Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
         (13)   On premises business signs and free standing signs; on premises
signs permitted at a height of one hundred (100) feet maximum.
            (a)   On premises business signs and free standing signs. Any sign,
pictorial or otherwise, regardless of size or shape, which directs attention to
a business, commodity, attraction, profession, service or entertainment
conducted, sold, offered, manufactured, existing or provided on the premises
where the sign is located or to which it is affixed. Such signs are sometimes
called "on premises signs" or "point-of-sale signs".
            (b)   On premises business signs shall be permitted to be erected
at a maximum height of one hundred (100) feet above the elevation of the
adjacent street or pavement located within the section of Radford Boulevard
beginning at a distance of three hundred one (301) feet to four hundred (400)
feet from the right-of-way of Interstate 95 (I-95); and also to be located
within a section of Highway 34 West at a distance of three hundred one (301)
feet from the right-of-way of Interstate 95 (I-95) to the intersection of South
Longstreet Road within the (B-2) Highway Commercial District, provided that:
               (i)   Such signs shall be limited to one (1) per three hundred
(300) feet of lot frontage along a major street or highway.
               (ii)   No sign shall be located in front of another sign on the
opposite side of the roadway.
               (iii)   All portions of the signs maintain at least a ten (10)
foot setback from any property line.
               (iv)   No directional signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet
if traffic flow requires separate exit or entrance sign.
               (v)   No free standing sign shall extend over any adjacent
structure or adjoining property.
               (vi)   No free standing on premises sign be higher than one
hundred (100) feet.
               (vii)   The maximum display area for free standing on premises
sign shall not exceed a maximum of six hundred seventy-two (672) square feet
plus a ten percent (10%) allowance for copy extensions. A copy extension is the
part of the copy which extends beyond the edge or border of the sign, sometimes
called a "cut-out" or "drop-out".
               (viii)   No sign facing shall exceed a length of sixty (60)
feet.
               (ix)   No sign facing shall exceed a height of forty-eight (48)
feet.
               (x)   Back to Back or V-type signs shall be considered as one
(1) sign.
               (xi)   No stacked (double deck) sign faces or side by side sign
faces shall be allowed.
               (xii)   Illustrations for computing sign dimensions are
contained in the illustrations 1 and 2 of this ordinance.
               (xiii)   The maximum display area for business signs and
business sign structures attached to/or mounted flat against the front surface
of the building wall shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the front surface
of the building; and shall not extend more than twenty-five (25) feet in height
above the maximum building height limit of thirty-five (35) feet.
               (xiv)   Signs permitted after the effective date of this
ordinance shall be designed and constructed with single steel pole structural
support designed to meet the wind load requirements of the latest adopted
Building and National Electrical Codes.
            (c)   Dillon County Land Use and Height Restriction Ordinance
Around Airports. The person or applicant shall notify and obtain a letter from
the Dillon County Administrator which shall state in writing that the proposed
sign is in compliance with the Dillon County Land Use and Height Restriction
Ordinance Around Airports prior to the issuance of a city permit to construct.
            (d)   Federal Aviation Administration Requirements. The maximum
height requirements for construction and alteration of signs as contained in
this ordinance are supplemented by the requirements of the Federal Aviation
Administration which regulates structures near airports.
               (i)   A determination of no hazard to air navigation may be
required from the Federal Aviation Administration and may contain some
restrictions which are in addition to the requirements of this ordinance.
               (ii)   The applicant or person responsible for construction or
alteration of signs near airports shall notify and obtain approval from the
Federal Aviation Administration prior to construction in accordance with the
following:
               (iii)   Any construction or alteration of more than two hundred
(200) feet in height above the ground level at its site.
               (iv)   Any construction or alteration of greater height than an
imaginary surface extending outward and upward at one (1) of the following
slopes:
                  A.   One hundred (100) to one (1) for a horizontal distance
of twenty thousand (20,000) feet from the nearest point of the nearest runway
of any airport that is available or being constructed for public use and is
subject to approval by the FAA with at least one (1) runway more than three
thousand two hundred (3,200) feet in actual length, excluding heliports.
                  B.   Fifty (50) to one (1) for a horizontal distance of ten
thousand (10,000) feet from the nearest point of the runway of any airport that
is available or being constructed for public use and is subject to approval by
the FAA with at least one (1) runway more than three thousand two hundred
(3,200) feet in actual length, excluding heliports.
            (e)   Each person who is required to notify the Federal Aviation
Administration shall send one (1) executed form set of FAA Form (Notice of
Proposed Construction or Alteration) to the Manager, Air Traffic Division, FAA
Regional Office having jurisdiction over the area within which the construction
or alteration will be located. Copies of FAA Forms may be obtained from the
headquarters of the Federal Aviation Administration and the regional offices at
(404)305-5587, (404)305-5002 or (404)305-5614.
            (f)   South Carolina Code of Laws. A permit and/or approval from
the State of South Carolina Department of Transportation may contain some
restrictions which are in addition to the requirements of this ordinance.
Issuance of a City of Dillon Permit does not imply approval of, or constitute a
privilege to violate, any other applicable state or local ordinances, codes,
laws, or private restrictive covenants.
            (g)   No advertising signs shall be permitted within the (B-2)
Highway Commercial District. Advertising signs shall only be permitted within
the (B-5) Interstate Highway District Inside the city limits of Dillon.
Advertising signs, any sign, pictorial or otherwise, regardless of size or
shape, which directs attention to a business, commodity, attraction,
profession, service or entertainment conducted, sold, offered, manufactured,
existing, or provided at a location other than on the premises where the sign
is located or to which it is affixed. Such signs are sometimes called "off-
premises signs," "non-point-of-sale signs," and include, but are not limited to
those signs commonly referred to as outdoor advertising signs, billboards, or
poster boards.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010; Am. Ord. 11-17, passed 12-12-2011; Am. Ord. 20-13,
passed 9-21-2020)
5-4-59-3   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-59-4   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required. Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Required parking spaces may be
provided on properly graded and improved open space or in a parking structure.
Each application for a building permit, zoning permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall include a plan showing the space reserved for off-street
parking and the means of ingress to and egress from such space. This
information shall be in a format sufficient for the Code Enforcement Director
to determine if the requirements of this section are met.
      (B)   Combination of Required Parking Space. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required
space assigned to one use may not be assigned to any other use, except that
one-half (1/2) of the parking spaces required for churches, theaters, or other
uses whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a
use which will be closed at night or on Sundays.
      (C)   Remote Parking. If the off-street parking space required by this
ordinance cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided on any land within four hundred
(400) feet of the principal use; provided that such land is in the same
ownership as the principal use or has been legally restricted for parking in
connection with the principal use.
      (D)   Design of Parking Area. All off-street parking shall be designed so
that vehicles can turn around within the area and enter the street, road, or
highway in such a manner as to completely eliminate the necessity of backing
into the street, road, or highway. Accessibility parking areas shall meet the
requirements of the South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for
accessibility to disabled persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long; provided that not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the spaces may be designed for compact vehicles and may have
dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet long. Aisles for ingress
and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width for
head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width for angled lot
arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. The following minimum
number of spaces shall be provided in the B-2 District. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Auditorium and theater                 One (1) space for each four (4) seats
                                       One (1) space for each three hundred
Bank                                   (300) square feet of gross floor space,
                                       plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                       employees
Church or place of worship             One (1) space for each four (4) seats in
                                       the sanctuary or assembly room
Convenience store                      One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                       square feet of floor area
Day care facility                      One (1) space for each adult attendant
Dwelling, single-family and two-family Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit
Dwelling, multi-family                 One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces for each
                                       dwelling unit
                                       One (1) space for each vehicle owned,
Funeral home                           plus one (1) space for each four (4)
                                       seats in the chapel or parlor, plus one
                                       (1) space for each employee
                                       One (1) space for each patient bed, plus
Hospital                               one (1) space for each staff doctor,
                                       plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                       employees
                                       One (1) space for each room to be
                                       rented, plus one (1) space for each
Hotel, motel, or tourist court         three (3) employees, plus requirements
                                       for any other use associated with the
                                       establishment
                                       One (1) space for each one hundred and
                                       eighty (180) square feet of floor or
Indoor and outdoor commercial          ground area, or one (1) space for each
                                       four (4) seats, whichever is needed,
                                       plus one (1) space for each two
                                       employees
                                       One (1) space for every one hundred
Medical or dental office               fifty (150) square feet of floor area,
                                       plus one (1) space for each doctor and
                                       employee
Nursing home, retirement homes         One (1) space for each five (5) beds
                                       intended for patient use
Office and professional building       One (1) space for each two hundred fifty
                                       (250) square feet of gross floor area
Public or private club                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                       square feet of gross floor space
                                       One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building                square feet of floor area available to
                                       the public, plus one (1) space for each
                                       employee
                                       One (1) space for each three (3) seats,
Restaurant                             plus one space for each two (2)
                                       employees
                                       One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                           square feet of floor area used for
                                       sales, plus one (1) space for each two
                                       (2) employees
                                       One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses           square feet of floor area available to
                                       customers, plus one (1) space for each
                                       two (2) employees
Service station                        One (1) space for each car stored, plus
                                       one (1) space for each employee
                                       Five and one-half (5-1/2) spaces for
Shopping center                        every one thousand (1,000) square feet
                                       of gross leasable floor space
Stadium                                One (1) space for each four (4)
                                       spectator seats
 
5-4-59-5   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
      All retail uses with a total floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet or more hereafter erected shall have one (1) off-street loading berth for
each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area. Such space shall have
access to an alley, or if there is no alley, to the street.
      (A)   Size and Design. Off-street loading berths required in this section
shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet wide by twenty-five (25) feet
long with fourteen (14) feet overhead clearance, and shall have adequate means
of ingress and egress. Loading spaces shall be designed so that the vehicles
can maneuver for loading and unloading entirely within the property lines of
the premises.
      (B)   Plan. Each application for a zoning permit, building permit, or
certificate of occupancy for a commercial building over ten thousand (10,000)
square feet shall include a plan showing the required off-street loading space
and the means of ingress to and egress from such space.
5-4-59-6   Lot Sizes and Setbacks.
      Minimum front setback is twenty-five (25) feet. There are no required
side or rear setbacks. On lots adjacent to a district where residences are
permitted, there shall be a setback on the side abutting the residential
district of not less than the minimum width required in the district it abuts.
All buildings in a shopping center shall be set back from all street right-of-
way lines not less than fifty (50) feet, from side property lines abutting a
district where residences are permitted not less than twenty-five (25) feet;
and from the rear property line not less than twenty-five (25) feet. Additional
standards for shopping centers may be found in the City of Dillon Land
Development Regulations.
5-4-59-7   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers, masts, and other similar
structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the district height limit.
However, such structures shall be separated from any adjoining lot line of a
lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one (1) foot for each two (2)
feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-59-8   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-59-9   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-59-10   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
5-4-59-11   Standards for Recreational Vehicle Parks.
      Recreational vehicle parks are allowed as a use within the B-2 District
only in conjunction with hotels and motels. Standards for the development of
recreational vehicle parks are listed in the City of Dillon Land Development
Regulations.
§ 5-4-60 B-3 LIMITED COMMERCIAL AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT.
   This district is established to provide locations for low-density
businesses, personal services, and office uses located on major and minor
arteries. Off-street parking is required.
5-4-60-1   Permitted Uses.
Alcoholic drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of
alcoholic drinks, such as, but not limited to night clubs, saloons, taverns,
bottle club drinking places, cabarets, cocktail lounges, discotheque alcoholic
beverages, tap room drinking places and alcoholic beverage bar drinking places
primarily providing services such as beer, ale, wine, whiskey and liquor for
on-premises consumption
Day care centers
Government buildings or facilities
Internet sweepstakes establishments
Offices for commercial, personal, medical, legal, and other services
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise on premises, including apparel,
jewelry, eating establishments, health and beauty aids, arts and crafts,
flowers and plants, and household needs, but excluding automobile dealers,
manufactured home sales lots, and boat and trailer sales lots
Services to individuals, including personal services, social services, health
services, exercise and health studios and tanning salons, repair services for
household items, photographic studios, laundries, and rental services for
household items
Sexually oriented business
Bingo
Adult gaming establishments such as video poker businesses where a patron is
paid as a result of the scores he compiles on a machine or a machine of the
non-payout type, in line pin game or video game with free play feature operated
by a slot in which is deposited a coin or thing of value except machines of the
non payout pin table type with levers of "flippers" operated by the player, by
which the course of the balls can be altered or changed, are also classified as
adult entertainment.
Businesses with only five video poker or other such games or less for which
customers can win money do not classify as an adult gaming establishment (B-3)
unless they also have one of the other uses so classified. Businesses that have
five or less machines would be classified as a (B-2) and are not allowed to
have more than one business per lot.
Adult gaming establishments shall not be located closer than 300 feet from any
house of worship, day care center, public or elementary, middle, or secondary
school, public or private kindergarten, a public playground or park; a public
vocational or trade school or technical educational center, a public or private
college or university, or other adult businesses.
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-60-2
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-60-3
 
      (A)   Permitted uses within a B-3 District is amended by adding body
piercing and tattooing as a permitted use within this section of the City of
Dillon Code of Ordinances and all existing permitted uses within this section
of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances shall remain in full force and effect
as though they were copied herein fully.
         (1)   No body piercing and/or tattooing business shall be located
within (1,000) one thousand feet of:
            (a)   A public or private kindergarten, elementary school,
intermediate school, middle school, high school, college, or care facility;
            (b)    A public playground or park;
            (c)   A public or private vocational or trade school, or technical
education center;
            (d)   A church, synagogue, mosque or other house of worship;
            (e)   A Protective Residential District or a residential activity.
         (2)   No body piercing and/or tattooing business shall be located
within (300) three hundred feet of:
            (a)   A facility that serves alcoholic beverages,
            (b)   Another body piercing and/or tattooing business.*
         (3)   Measurement: To determine the separation, the distance shall be
measured by following the shortest route of pedestrian or vehicular traffic
along the public thoroughfare from property line to property line.
      (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be
operated a body piercing and/or tattooing business outside a zoned designated
(B-3) Limited Commercial and Adult Entertainment Zoning District.
      (C)   * Description of principal activities of body piercing and
tattooing: any room, space, location, area, structure, or business, or any part
of these places where body piercing or tattooing is practiced or where the
business of body piercing or tattooing business is conducted, whether owned or
managed by a person which is subject to the provisions of the South Carolina
Code of Laws, as amended, for performing body piercing and/or tattooing. All
body piercing and/or tattooing businesses shall be located within a (B-3)
Limited Commercial and Adult Entertainment Zoning District.
      (D)   Fees. The annual fee for a body piercing and/or tattooing business
license is as set forth in the Business and Professional License Ordinance
within
Title 7,
Chapter 1, of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances.
      (E)   Definitions.
         ALCOHOLIC DRINKING PLACE means an establishment that is primarily
devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests on the
premises, deriving fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of
alcohol and in which the serving of meals is only incidental to the consumption
of such beverages.
         INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES ESTABLISHMENT means an establishment where
customers are primarily devoted to buy time online and play video “sweepstakes”
games for cash prizes or purchase internet time that allows the user to receive
points or credits that are then used to play, in many instances, casino-like
computer games to potentially win more points redeemable for cash and/or where
customers are primarily devoted to giving donation for a product or other thing
of value (i.e., phone card, internet time), which credits the customer with
free points or other measurable units that may be risked by the customer for an
opportunity to win money.
         MEALS means an assortment of various prepared foods which shall be
available to guests on the licensed premises during normal mealtimes which
occur when the licensed business establishment is open to the public.
Sandwiches, boiled eggs, sausages and other snacks prepared off the licensed
premises but sold thereon, shall not constitute a meal. The business must have
a menu or a posted listing of available meals. Hot meals must be prepared at
least once each day the business is open for business.
         PRIMARILY means for the most part of a business activity engaged in by
a business establishment.
         RESTAURANT means an establishment that is primarily devoted to the
serving of food and drinks for consumption by guests on the premises, deriving
fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of food and drinks in
which the serving of alcoholic drinks is only incidental to the consumption of
such meals. The business must have a Class A restaurant license from the
Department of Health and Environmental Control and must have a kitchen that is
used solely for the preparation, serving and disposal of solid foods that make
up meals to include seating for not less than forty (40) persons simultaneously
at tables for the service of meals.
(Am. Ord. 04-13, passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. 11-16, passed 12-12-2011)
5-4-60-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the B-
3 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-60-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.

      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the B-3 District.
         (1)   Applicable signs permitted in residential districts.
         (2)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The total area
of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the front surface of the building facing either a public pedestrian or
vehicular way, or a parking lot.
         (3)   Business signs mounted flat against the rear and/or side surface
of the building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The
total area of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the rear and side surface of the building facing either a
public pedestrian or vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (4)   Business signs, free standing, for each business on the premises
under separate management, providing that such signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per one hundred (100) feet of lot
frontage along a major street.
            (b)   Meet the minimum setback requirements for the district in
which they are located.
            (c)   Be not higher than thirty (30) feet nor lower than ten (10)
feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or pavement.
            (d)   Not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in total area.
         (5)   Business signs, for shopping centers, in accordance with the
standards of the City of Dillon land development.
         (6)   Business signs suspended under canopies, providing that such
signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per building entrance.
            (b)   Be a minimum of nine (9) feet above the sidewalk surface.
            (c)   Not to exceed three (3) square feet in total area.
         (7)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (8)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (9)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (10)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 0-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-60-3   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-60-4   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required. Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Required parking spaces may be
provided on properly graded and improved open space or in a parking structure.
Each application for a building permit, zoning permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall include a plan showing the space reserved for off-street
parking and the means of ingress to and egress from such space. This
information shall be in a format sufficient for the Code Enforcement Director
to determine if the requirements of this section are met.
      (B)   Combination of Required Parking Space. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required
space assigned to one use may not be assigned to any other use.
      (C)   Remote Parking. If the off-street parking space required by this
ordinance cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided on any land within four hundred
(400) feet of the principal use; provided that such land is in the same
ownership as the principal use or has been legally restricted for parking in
connection with the principal use.
      (D)   Design of Parking Area. All off-street parking shall be designed so
that vehicles can turn around within the area and enter the street, road, or
highway in such a manner as to completely eliminate the necessity of backing
into the street, road, or highway. Accessibility parking areas shall meet the
requirements of the South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for
accessibility to disabled persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long; provided that not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the spaces may be designed for compact vehicles and may have
dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet long. Aisles for ingress
and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width for
head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width for angled lot
arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. The following minimum
number of spaces shall be provided for uses in the B-3 District. These
standards are minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces
necessary to adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
                                 One (1) space for each three hundred (300)
Bank                             square feet of gross floor space, plus one (1)
                                 space for each two (2) employees
Day care facility                One (1) space for each adult attendant
                                 One (1) space for every one hundred fifty
Medical or dental office         (150) square feet of floor area, plus one (1)
                                 space for each doctor and employee
Office and professional building One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
                                 square feet of gross floor area
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square feet of floor area available to the
                                 public, plus one (1) space for each employee
Restaurant                       One (1) space for each three (3) seats, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                     square feet of floor area used for sales, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses     square feet of floor area available to
                                 customers, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                 employees
Video Poker establishments       Two (2) spaces for each device and one (1)
                                 space for each employee
 
5-4-60-5   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
      All retail uses with a total floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet or more hereafter erected shall have one (1) off-street loading berth for
each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area. Such space shall have
access to an alley, or if there is no alley, to the street.
      (A)   Size and Design. Off-street loading berths required in this section
shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet wide by twenty-five (25) feet
long with fourteen (14) feet overhead clearance, and shall have adequate means
of ingress and egress. Loading spaces shall be designed so that the vehicles
can maneuver for loading and unloading entirely within the property lines of
the premises.
      (B)   Plan. Each application for a zoning permit, building permit, or
certificate of occupancy for a commercial building over ten thousand (10,000)
square feet shall include a plan showing the required off-street loading space
and the means of ingress to and egress from such space.
5-4-60-6   Lot Sizes and Setbacks.
      Minimum front setback is thirty (30) feet. Minimum rear setback is twenty
(20) feet. There are no required side setbacks. On lots adjacent to a district
where residences are permitted, there shall be a setback on the side abutting
the residential district of not less than the minimum width required in the
district it abuts.
5-4-60-7   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers, masts, and other similar
structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the district height limit.
However, such structures shall be separated from any adjoining lot line of a
lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one (1) foot for each two (2)
feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-60-8   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-60-9   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-60-10   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
§ 5-4-61 B-4 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL (FORMERLY B-2 DISTRICT).
   This district is created to provide for small shopping areas primarily
designed to serve nearby residential areas. Neighborhood commercial districts
will usually be located on a major street and they will usually provide sites
for businesses that sell items and provide personal services accessed on a
daily basis. Because the neighborhood commercial areas are generally adjacent
to residential areas, surrounding residential properties must be protected.
5-4-61-1   Permitted Uses.
 
Day care centers
Government offices or buildings
Offices providing professional services, such as medical, legal, and other
services
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-61-2
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-61-3
 
(Am. Ord. 02-12, passed 6-10-2002)
5-4-61-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the B-
4 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-61-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the B-4 District.
         (1)   Applicable signs permitted in residential districts.
         (2)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The total area
of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the front surface of the building facing either a public pedestrian or
vehicular way, or a parking lot.
         (3)   Business signs mounted flat against the rear and/or side surface
of the building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The
total area of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the rear and side surface of the building facing either a
public pedestrian or vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (4)   Business signs, free standing, for each business on the premises
under separate management, providing that such signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per one hundred (100) feet of lot
frontage along a major street.
            (b)   Meet the minimum setback requirements for the district in
which they are located.
            (c)   Be not higher than thirty (30) feet nor lower than ten (10)
feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or pavement.
            (d)   Not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in total area.
         (5)   Business signs, for shopping centers, in accordance with the
requirements of the City of Dillon land development regulations.
         (6)   Business signs suspended under canopies, providing that such
signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per building entrance.
            (b)   Be a minimum of nine (9) feet above the sidewalk surface.
            (c)   Not to exceed three (3) square feet in total area.
         (7)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (8)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (9)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (10)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-61-3   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-61-4   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required.  Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Required parking spaces may be
provided on properly graded and improved open space or in a parking structure.
Each application for a building permit, zoning permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall include a plan showing the space reserved for off-street
parking and the means of ingress to and egress from such space. This
information shall be in a format sufficient for the Code Enforcement Director
to determine if the requirements of this section are met.
      (B)   Combination of Required Parking Space. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one (1) lot, but the
required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to any other use.
      (C)   Remote Parking. If the off-street parking space required by this
ordinance cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided on any land within four hundred
(400) feet of the principal use; provided that such land is in the same
ownership as the principal use or has been legally restricted for parking in
connection with the principal use.
      (D)   Design of Parking Area. All off-street parking shall be designed so
that vehicles can turn around within the area and enter the street, road, or
highway in such a manner as to completely eliminate the necessity of backing
into the street, road, or highway. Accessibility parking areas shall meet the
requirements of the South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for
accessibility to disabled persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long; provided that not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the spaces may be designed for compact vehicles and may have
dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet long. Aisles for ingress
and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width for
head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width for angled lot
arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. The following minimum
number of spaces shall be provided for uses in the B-4 District. These
standards are minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces
necessary to adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
                                 One (1) space for each three hundred (300)
Bank                             square feet of gross floor space, plus one (1)
                                 space for each two (2) employees
Convenience store                One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                 square feet of floor area
Day care facility                One (1) space for each adult attendant
                                 One (1) space for every one hundred fifty
Medical or dental office         (150) square feet of floor area, plus one (1)
                                 space for each doctor and employee
Office and professional building One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
                                 square feet of gross floor area
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square feet of floor area available to the
                                 public, plus one (1) space for each employee
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                     square feet of floor area used for sales, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses     square feet of floor area available to
                                 customers, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                 employees
                                 Five and one-half (5-1/2) spaces for every one
Shopping center                  thousand (1,000) square feet of gross leasable
                                 floor space
 
5-4-61-5   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
      All retail uses with a total floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet or more hereafter erected shall have one (1) off-street loading berth for
each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area. Such space shall have
access to an alley, or if there is no alley, to the street.
      (A)   Size and Design. Off-street loading berths required in this section
shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet wide by twenty-five (25) feet
long with fourteen (14) feet overhead clearance, and shall have adequate means
of ingress and egress. Loading spaces shall be designed so that the vehicles
can maneuver for loading and unloading entirely within the property lines of
the premises.
      (B)   Plan. Each application for a zoning permit, building permit, or
certificate of occupancy for an industrial or wholesale building, or a
commercial building over ten thousand (10,000) square feet shall include a plan
showing the required off-street loading space and the means of ingress to and
egress from such space.
5-4-61-6   Lot Sizes and Setbacks.
      Minimum front setback is twenty-five (25) feet. Minimum rear setback is
twenty (20) feet. There are no required side setbacks. On lots adjacent to a
district where residences are permitted, there shall be a setback on the side
abutting the residential district of not less than the minimum width required
in the district it abuts. See the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations
for further standards.
5-4-61-7   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers (except communication towers),
masts, and other similar structures not used for human. occupancy may exceed
the district height limit. However, such structures shall be separated from any
adjoining lot line of a lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one
(1) foot for each two (2) feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-61-8   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-61-9   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-61-10   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
§ 5-4-62 B-5 INTERSTATE HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (EDITOR’S NOTE: Please see §
5-4-103 for information regarding the B-5 Zoning District.)
§ 5-4-63 I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (FORMERLY I DISTRICT).
   This district is designed to provide for a wide variety of small industrial
and commercial uses which do not create nuisances due to noise, emissions, or
heavy traffic.
   5-4-63-1 Permitted Uses.
Building materials storage and supply
Churches and other places or worship
Convenience stores
Garages and auto repair facilities
Government buildings or facilities
Horticultural nurseries and greenhouses
Light manufacturing, including but not limited to such uses as laboratories,
electronics and electric components
Manufacturing, printing shops, and pharmaceutical manufacturing
Mini-warehouses
Parking lots
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise manufactured or processed on
premises
Service stations
Services to individuals, businesses and industries, (excluding establishments
primarily engaged in internet sweepstakes)
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-63-2
Telephone, telegraph, radio, and television services, including communication
towers
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-63-3
Transportation facilities, transport, and storage
Veterinary services and animal shelters
Warehouses and wholesale distribution centers
Wholesale trade
Woodworking shops
 
      (A)   Definitions.
         INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES ESTABLISHMENT means an establishment where
customers are primarily devoted to buy time online and play video “sweepstakes”
games for cash prizes or purchase internet time that allows the user to receive
points or credits that are then used to play, in many instances, casino-like
computer games to potentially win more points redeemable for cash and/or where
customers are primarily devoted to giving donation for a product or other thing
of value (i.e., phone card, internet time), which credits the customer with
free points or other measurable units that may be risked by the customer for an
opportunity to win money.
         PRIMARILY means for the most part of a business activity engaged in by
a business establishment.
(Am. Ord. 11-16, passed 12-12-2011)
5-4-63-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the I-
1 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-63-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the I-1 District.
         (1)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall, except that the total area of all signs identifying each
establishment shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the front surface of the
building.
         (2)   Business signs, free standing, for each business under separate
management, providing that such signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per one hundred (100) feet of lot
frontage along the street on which they are located.
            (b)   Meet the minimum setback requirements for the district in
which they are located.
            (c)   Be not higher than thirty (30) feet nor lower than ten (10)
feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or pavement.
            (d)   Not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in total area.
         (3)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (4)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (5)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (6)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-63-3   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for nonconforming buildings, structures, or
uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-63-4   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required.  Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Required parking spaces may be
provided on properly graded and improved open space or in a parking structure.
Each application for a building permit, zoning permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall include a plan showing the space reserved for off-street
parking and the means of ingress to and egress from such space. This
information shall be in a format sufficient for the Code Enforcement Director
to determine if the requirements of this section are met.
      (B)   Combination of Required Parking Space. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one (1) lot, but the
required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to any other use.
      (C)   Remote Parking. If the off-street parking space required by this
ordinance cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided on any land within four hundred
(400) feet of the principal use; provided that such land is in the same
ownership as the principal use or has been legally restricted for parking in
connection with the principal use.
      (D)   Design of Parking Area.  All off-street parking shall be designed
so that vehicles can turn around within the area and enter the street, road, or
highway in such a manner as to completely eliminate the necessity of backing
into the street, road, or highway. Accessibility parking areas shall meet the
requirements of the South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for
accessibility to disabled persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space.  The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long; provided that not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the spaces may be designed for compact vehicles and may have
dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet long. Aisles for ingress
and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width for
head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width for angled lot
arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. The following minimum
number of spaces shall be provided for uses in the I-1 District. These
standards are minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces
necessary to adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Convenience store                One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                 square feet of floor area
                                 One (1) space for each three (3) employees,
Manufacturing and wholesale      plus one (1) space for each vehicle used in
                                 the business, plus one (1) visitor space for
                                 each ten (10) managerial employees
                                 One (1) space for every one hundred fifty
Medical or dental office         (150) square feet of floor area, plus one (1)
                                 space for each doctor and employee
Office and professional building One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
                                 square feet of gross floor area
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square feet of floor area available to the
                                 public, plus one (1) space for each employee
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                     square feet of floor area used for sales, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses     square feet of floor area available to
                                 customers, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                 employees
                                 One (1) space for each three (3) employees,
Wholesale trade                  plus one (1) space for each vehicle used in
                                 the business, plus one (1) visitor space for
                                 each ten (10) managerial employees
 
5-4-63-5   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
      Industrial and wholesale buildings industrial and wholesale buildings
shall provide space for loading and unloading of vehicles as indicated below.
These requirements shall be considered the minimum, and the owner or developer
shall evaluate the project needs to determine if additional needs exist.
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area in Structure Number of Berths
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area in Structure Number of Berths
0 - 25,000                                   1
25,001 - 40,000                              2
40,001 - 100,000                             3
100,001 - 160,000                            4
160,001 - 240,000                            5
240,001 - 320,000                            6
320,001 - 400,000                            7
Each 90,000 above 400,000                    1
 
5-4-63-6   Setbacks.
      Minimum front setback is fifty (50) feet. Minimum side and rear setback
is ten (10) feet. Where a use permitted in an Industrial District abuts a
district where residences are permitted, a landscaped barrier not less than
fifteen (15) feet in width, in addition to the required setback, shall be
maintained along side and rear property lines.
5-4-63-7   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers, masts, and other similar
structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the district height limit.
However, such structures shall be separated from any adjoining lot line of a
lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one (1) foot for each two (2)
feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-63-8   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-63-9   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-63-10   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
§ 5-4-64 I-2 BASIC INDUSTRIAL (FORMERLY I DISTRICT).
   This district is designed to accommodate a wide variety of industrial uses
involving research, manufacturing, processing, assembly, storage, and services.
5-4-64-1   Permitted Uses.
Building materials storage and supply
Chemical blending and bulk petroleum products
Garages for repair and servicing of motor vehicles
Government buildings or facilities
Horticultural nurseries and greenhouses
Junk, salvage, scrap, recycling, or wrecking yards
Manufacturing and processing facilities
Metalworking shops
Mini-warehouses
Public utility substations and facilities, including utility easements
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise which is manufactured or
processed on premises
Services to individuals, businesses and industries
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-64-2
Telephone, telegraph, radio, and television services, including communications
towers
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-64-3
Transportation facilities, transport, and storage
Veterinary services and animal shelters
Warehouses and wholesale distribution centers Wholesale trade
Woodworking shops
 
5-4-64-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the I-
2 District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-64-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the I-2 District.
         (1)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall, except that the total area of all signs identifying each
establishment shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the front surface of the
building.
         (2)   Business signs, free standing, for each business under separate
management, providing that such signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per one hundred (100) feet of lot
frontage along the street on which they are located.
            (b)   Meet the minimum setback requirements for the district in
which they are located.
            (c)   Be not higher than thirty (30) feet nor lower than ten (10)
feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or pavement.
            (d)   Not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in total area.
         (3)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (4)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (5)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (6)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-64-3   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-64-4   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required.  Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Required parking spaces may be
provided on properly graded and improved open space or in a parking structure.
Each application for a building permit, zoning permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall include a plan showing the space reserved for off-street
parking and the means of ingress to and egress from such space. This
information shall be in a format sufficient for the Code Enforcement Director
to determine if the requirements of this section are met.
      (B)   Combination of Required Parking Space. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one (1) lot, but the
required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to any other use.
      (C)   Remote Parking. If the off-street parking space required by this
ordinance cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided on any land within four hundred
(400) feet of the principal use; provided that such land is in the same
ownership as the principal use or has been legally restricted for parking in
connection with the principal use.
      (D)   Design of Parking Area. All off-street parking shall be designed so
that vehicles can turn around within the area and enter the street, road, or
highway in such a manner as to completely eliminate the necessity of backing
into the street, road, or highway. Accessibility parking areas shall meet the
requirements of the South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for
accessibility to disabled persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long; provided that not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the spaces may be designed for compact vehicles and may have
dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet long. Aisles for ingress
and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width for
head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width for angled lot
arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Of. The following minimum number of spaces shall be
provided for uses in the I-2 District. These standards are minimum; a developer
should provide the number of spaces necessary to adequately accommodate parking
for the planned use.
 
                                 One (1) space for each three (3) employees,
Manufacturing and wholesale      plus one (1) space for each vehicle used in
                                 the business, plus one (1) visitor space for
                                 each ten (10) managerial employees
Office and professional building One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
                                 square feet of gross floor area
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square feet of floor area available to the
                                 public, plus one (1) space for each employee
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                     square feet of floor area used for sales, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses     square feet of floor area available to
                                 customers, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                 employees
 
5-4-64-5   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
      Industrial and wholesale buildings industrial and wholesale buildings
shall provide space for loading and unloading of vehicles as indicated below.
These requirements shall be considered the minimum, and the owner or developer
shall evaluate the project needs to determine if additional needs exist.
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area in Structure Number of Berths
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area in Structure Number of Berths
0 - 25,000                                   1
25,001 - 40,000                              2
40,001 - 100,000                             3
100,001 - 160,000                            4
160,001 - 240,000                            5
240,001 - 320,000                            6
320,001 - 400,000                            7
Each 90,000 above 400,000                    1
 
5-4-64-6   Setbacks.
      Minimum front setback is fifty (50) feet. Minimum side and rear setback
is ten (10) feet. Where a use permitted in an Industrial district abuts a
district where residences are permitted, a landscaped barrier not less than
fifteen (15) feet in width, in addition to the required setback, shall be
maintained along side and rear property lines.
5-4-64-7   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers, masts, and other similar
structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the district height limit.
However, such structures shall be separated from any adjoining lot line of a
lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one (1) foot for each two (2)
feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-64-8   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-64-9   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-64-10   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Building Inspector shall comply with applicable Federal Emergency
Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in the issuance
of any zoning permit.
§ 5-4-65 PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
5-4-65-1   Intent.
      A Planned Development District is a tract of land exceeding five (5)
acres in size which is to be developed as an integral unit and which is under a
single ownership of an individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or
associated ownership. The planned development is undertaken in a single
development operation or in a definitely programmed series of development
operations according to an approved development plan and a preliminary site
plan. The intent of the Planned Development District is to derive the benefits
of efficiency, economy, and design flexibility by encouraging unified
development of large sites, while allowing creative site design, improved
appearance, compatibility of uses, and community facilities and open space.
5-4-65-2   Pre-Application Conference.
      Prior to submission of an application for a PD District, the developer is
encouraged to request a pre-application conference with the Code Enforcement
Director to obtain information and guidance prior to entering binding
commitments or incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans and
surveys.
5-4-65-3   Uses Permitted.
      The PD District is intended to accommodate primarily residential with
non-residential uses integrated into the design as secondary uses. Within the
PD District, all uses allowed in the R-12, R-7, and B-4 Districts are allowed,
subject to approval of the site plan. A mix of uses is allowed based on the
concept that the site size allows for unified design including functional
relationships, buffer treatments separating uses with potentially incompatible
characteristics of use, design of access patterns, and relationships of uses
within the PD District with uses in adjacent districts. It is the intent that
such design features be incorporated properly into the PD District plan, and
that the Planning Commission and City Council shall consider the existence and
appropriateness of the design features before any amendment to the Zoning Map
is adopted to create a PD District.
5-4-65-4   Application for Establishment of a PD District.
      The applicant shall request an amendment to the Zoning Map to establish a
PD District, utilizing the amendment procedure established by Article C of this
ordinance. The amendment request shall be accompanied by the proposed site plan
as described below.
5-4-65-5   Proposed Site Plan.
      The site plan is a conceptual plan for the development of the planned
development which designates the location of all structures, uses, and
improvements. The site plan shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor, engineer,
architect, landscape architect, or planner. It shall be drawn to scale and
shall include the following:
      (A)   Legal description of the site boundaries and total area of the
site;
      (B)   Area and location of each type of land use, along with total area
devoted to residential, commercial, recreational and open space, and other
uses;
      (C)   Number and density of dwelling units by type;
      (D)   Existing and proposed roads, streets, and parking areas, with the
number of parking and loading spaces;
      (E)   Description of open spaces, recreational uses, and areas to be
dedicated for public ownership;
      (F)   Economic feasibility and justification for commercial uses;
      (G)   Methods for dealing with the impact of projected traffic volumes on
uses on site and adjacent streets and areas;
      (H)   Steps to comply with sediment and erosion control requirements;
      (I)   Proposed landscaping and buffers, both within the development and
separating the development from adjacent land uses;
      (J)   Details of planned homeowners association, property organization,
or other organization involved in maintenance, including procedures and methods
of operation;
      (K)   An outline of the phasing of the development indicating the timing
of the proposed elements or phases;
      (L)   Design standards, administrative procedures, and other
characteristics which demonstrate that the development is an integrated,
functionally operable, and well-planned whole;
      (M)   Proposed restrictive covenants to be recorded which will assure
that future development is compatible with the standards of the plan;
      (N)   Proposed surety bonds guaranteeing compliance with the plan and
completion of the development in accordance with the proposed schedule;
      (O)   Other information which may be appropriate for Planning Commission
review.
5-4-65-6   Review and Approval Process.
      The following process for review and approval of the PD District requests
is established:
      (A)   Upon determination that the application meets the above
requirements, the Code Enforcement Director shall forward the application to
the Planning Commission for review and recommendation to the City Council as
required for zoning amendments;
      (B)   Because of the detailed nature of the PD District plans, the
Planning Commission may request a review session with the developer, and may
seek clarification on the details of the site plan;
      (C)   Upon receipt of a recommendation from the Planning Commission, the
City Council shall conduct a public hearing as required for zoning amendments,
and may approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove the proposed
amendment;
      (D)   Zoning and building permits shall not be issued for any part of the
PD project until the zoning is approved by the City Council, and the approved
plats, descriptive statements, restrictive covenants, are filed for record with
the Municipal Clerk and Clerk of Court for Dillon County, and the required
bonds are posted with the Municipal Clerk;
      (E)   The site plan approved by the City Council shall be the Zoning
District Map for the PD District created and shall be the basis for issuance of
zoning and building plans.
5-4-65-7   Changes to Plan.
      During the implementation of the development plan for the PD District, it
may become necessary to undertake changes in the plan due to unforseen
circumstances or market conditions. Changes which alter district boundaries or
which materially affect the use characteristics of the PD District shall be
submitted under normal zoning amendment procedures. Changes proposed in writing
by the developer which involve minor revisions and which do not materially
affect the approved plan or violate any applicable regulations may be approved
by the Code Enforcement Director. These may include changes such as revisions
of floor plans, relocation of driveways, alterations to utilities and drainage
facilities, and changes in landscaping which do not reduce the effective
buffers. If requested changes are not approved by the Code Enforcement
Director, the developer may submit the requested change under zoning amendment
procedures.
5-4-65-8   Failure to Implement Plan.
      If the developer fails to begin, fails to progress, or fails to complete
development as agreed in the site plan, the city may enforce and collect on
bonds, may charge the developer with violation of this ordinance, may rezone
the property, or may take any combination of these actions.
5-4-65-9   Bed and Breakfast Inns.
      The following requirements shall apply to bed and breakfast inns:
      (A)   The property owner shall live at the inn;
      (B)   Not more than six (6) rooms shall be rented to guests;
      (C)   Meals shall be served to registered guests only;
      (D)   No cooking facilities shall be allowed in guest rooms;
      (E)   Only short-term lodging shall be provided; monthly rentals shall be
prohibited;
      (F)   Use as a bed and breakfast inn shall produce no alteration or
change in character or exterior appearance of the principal building from that
of a dwelling;
      (G)   A sign is permitted, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-65-12;
      (H)   Parking is required, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-65-14.
5-4-65-10   Group Homes.
      Group homes are intended to provide living arrangements for mentally or
physically disabled persons in a neighborhood environment. Group homes provide
twenty-four (24) hour care for nine (9) or fewer persons and are approved or
licensed by a state agency or department or under contract with an agency or
department for that purpose. Residents of a group home are perceived as a
natural family as if related by blood or marriage. Following are specific
procedures for locating such a home:
      (A)   Prior to locating the home, the owner or operator must give prior
notice to the local governing body advising of the exact site of the proposed
home.
      (B)   The notice must identify the individual responsible for site
selection.
      (C)   If the local governing body objects to the selected site, it must
notify the individual responsible for site selection within fifteen (15) days
of receiving the notice. It must also appoint a representative to assist in
selecting a comparable, alternate site. This triggers the following actions:
         (1)   The site selection representative of the entity and the
representative of the governing body must select a third, mutually agreeable
person to assist with the selection.
         (2)   The three (3) people have forty-five (45) days to make a final
site selection by majority vote.
         (3)   This final site selection is binding on both the proposing
entity and the governing body.
      (D)   In the event no selection is made by the end of the forty-five (45)
day period, the entity establishing the home shall select the site without
further proceedings.
      (E)   An application for a variance is not required.
      (F)   The licensing agency must screen prospective residents of these
homes to ensure that the placement is appropriate.
      (G)   The licensing agency shall conduct reviews of these homes at least
every six (6) months to promote the rehabilitative purposes of the homes and to
confirm compatibility with their neighborhoods.
      (H)   If the City of Dillon determines that other requirements of this
ordinance or other ordinances are violated by these procedures, it may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive or such other relief as the
court may consider proper.
5-4-65-11   Home Occupations.
      Home occupations are permitted in the PD District. The following
requirements shall apply to home occupations:
      (A)   Only members of the family residing on the premises shall be
engaged in the occupation;
      (B)   The occupation shall not involve the retail sale of merchandise
manufactured off the premises;
      (C)   No display of merchandise shall be visible from the street;
      (D)   The occupation shall not, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement
Director, create a nuisance or cause undue disturbance in the neighborhood due
to noise, fumes, or other impacts from the operation of the occupation;
      (E)   A sign may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-65-12;
      (F)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of §
5-4-65-14;
      (G)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. An accessory
building may be used for home occupations, provided it is no larger than five
hundred (500) square feet.
5-4-65-12   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each residence or principal building shall have
posted on the front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum
of three (3) inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the PD
District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-65-12(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the
sign and any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the PD District.
         (1)   One (1) non-illuminated occupancy sign or nameplate not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of the
principal building in which a permissible home occupation is located.
         (2)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (3)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (4)   One (1) illuminated non-flashing sign identifying a bed and
breakfast inn, providing it is located on the premises and does not exceed four
(4) square feet and providing it is no closer than five (5) feet to a property
line.
         (5)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (6)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (7)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The total area
of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the front surface of the building facing either a public pedestrian or
vehicular way, or a parking lot.
         (8)   Business signs mounted flat against the rear and/or side surface
of the building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The
total area of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the rear and side surface of the building facing either a
public pedestrian or vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (9)   Business signs, free standing, for each business on the premises
under separate management, providing that such signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per one hundred (100) feet of lot
frontage along a major street.
            (b)   Meet the minimum setback requirements for the district in
which they are located.
            (c)   Be not higher than thirty (30) feet nor lower than ten (10)
feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or pavement.
            (d)   Not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in total area.
         (10)   Business signs, for shopping centers, in accordance with the
standards of the City of Dillon Land Development Ordinance.
         (11)   Business signs suspended under canopies, providing that such
signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per building entrance.
            (b)   Be a minimum of nine (9) feet above the sidewalk surface.
            (c)   Not to exceed three (3) square feet in total area.
         (12)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, civic or fraternal, group home,
lodge, public recreation area, or social organization may be located in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South Carolina Department of
Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
         (13)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet may be located in the public rights-of-way or private easements of streets
and roads within the corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South
Carolina Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-65-13   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-65-14   Off-Street Parking.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required.  Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Each application for a building
permit, zoning permit, or certificate of occupancy shall include a plan showing
the space reserved for off-street parking and the means of ingress to and
egress from such space. This information shall be in a format sufficient for
the Code Enforcement Director to determine if the requirements of this section
are met.
      (B)   Travel or Camping Trailers.
         (1)   Not more than one (1) travel or camping trailer for each family
living on the premises shall be permitted on a lot in the PD Plan Development
District.
         (2)   Travel or camping trailers are allowed to be parked or stored
only in the rear yard and side yard on a lot in the PD Plan Development
District.
         (3)   No travel or camping trailers shall be permitted to be parked
within the front yard on a lot in the PD Plan Development District.
         (4)   Travel or camping trailers shall not be occupied temporarily or
permanently while parked or stored in the PD Plan Development District.
      (C)   Commercial Vehicles. No commercial trailers or tankers used for
hauling explosives, gasoline, hazardous materials, or liquefied petroleum
products shall be permitted to be parked or stored in the PD District.
Accessibility parking areas shall meet the requirements of the South Carolina
Board for Barrier-Free Design for accessibility to disabled persons in relation
to parking spaces and sizes.
      (D)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long.
      (E)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Bed and breakfast inn            Two (2) spaces for the owner, plus one (1)
                                 space for each room for rent
                                 One (1) space for each resident advisor, plus
Group home                       one (1) space for each agency vehicle used to
                                 transport clients
                                 One (1) space for each one hundred (100)
Home occupation                  square feet of space devoted to the home
                                 occupation, plus the normal residential
                                 requirement
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square feet of floor space available to the
                                 public, plus one (1) space for each employee
Single-family dwelling           Two (2) spaces
                                 One (1) space for each three hundred (300)
Bank                             square feet of gross floor space, plus one (1)
                                 space for each two (2) employees
Convenience store                One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                 square feet of floor area
Day care facility                One (1) space for each adult attendant
                                 One (1) space for every one hundred fifty
Medical or dental office         (150) square feet of floor area, plus one (1)
                                 space for each doctor and employee
Office and professional building One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
                                 square feet of gross floor area
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square feet of floor area available to the
                                 public, plus one (1) space for each employee
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                     square feet of floor area used for sales, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses     square feet of floor area available to
                                 customers, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                 employees
                                 Five and one-half (5-1/2) spaces for every one
Shopping center                  thousand (1,000) square feet of gross leasable
                                 floor space
 
(Ord. 13-07, passed 10-14-2013)
5-4-65-15   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
      All retail uses with a total floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet or more hereafter erected shall have one (1) off-street loading berth for
each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area. Such space shall have
access to an alley, or if there is no alley, to the street.
      (A)   Size and Design. Off-street loading berths required in this section
shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet wide by twenty-five (25) feet
long with fourteen (14) feet overhead clearance, and shall have adequate means
of ingress and egress. Loading spaces shall be designed so that the vehicles
can maneuver for loading and unloading entirely within the property lines of
the premises.
      (B)   Plan. Each application for a zoning permit, building permit, or
certificate of occupancy for an industrial or wholesale building, or a
commercial building over ten thousand (10,000) square feet shall include a plan
showing the required off-street loading space and the means of ingress to and
egress from such space.
5-4-65-16   Minimum Size.
      The minimum size for the establishment of a PD District is five (5)
acres.
5-4-65-17   Lot Sizes and Setbacks.
      Lot sizes, setbacks, and other dimensional standards will be established
in the site plan for the PD District.
5-4-65-18   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers, masts, and other similar
structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the district height limit.
However, such structures shall be separated from any adjoining lot line of a
lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one (1) foot for each two (2)
feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-65-19   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-65-20   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-65-21   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
5-4-65-22   Housing Construction Standards.
      All conventionally constructed homes located in the city shall be built
under inspection by the Building Inspector and shall comply with the applicable
Southern Standard Building Codes as adopted and amended by the South Carolina
Building Code Council.
§ 5-4-66 MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
      Intent. The intent of the Mobile Home District (MHD) is to provide a
sound and healthy residential environment sufficient to meet the unique needs
of inhabitants living in mobile homes; to protect mobile home parks from
encroachment by incompatible uses; and to encourage the consolidation of mobile
homes into mobile home parks. Any mobile home or mobile home park within the
city shall henceforth be located in conformance with the regulations set forth
herein. Note: The terms manufactured homes and mobile homes are used
interchangeably in this document.
5-4-66-1   Permitted Uses.
Bed and breakfast inns in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-5
Boarding houses
Cemeteries
Churches and other places of worship
Commercial horticulture or agriculture (excluding farm animals)
Family day care homes in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-17 (excluding childcare facilities such as childcare centers and group
childcare homes engaged in business activities of providing daycare services)
Group homes in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-6
Home occupations in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-7
Multi-family dwellings in accordance with the provisions of
Title 5, Chapter 5, Land Development Regulations
Private clubs for golf, tennis, swimming, and similar activities, provided all
structures are set back from the property lines at least fifty (50) feet
Public recreation uses or facilities
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Public and private schools
Retirement homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes
Single-family detached dwellings
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-8
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-9
Two-family dwellings (duplexes)
Manufactured homes, both single wide and multiple section, located on
individual lots or in manufactured housing communities and parks
Cluster housing and townhouses in accordance with the provision of
Title 5,
Chapter 5, Land Development Regulations
 
(Am. Ord. 02-11, passed 6-10-2002; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
09-11, passed 6-8-2009; Am. Ord. 16-14, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-66-2   Mobile homes on individually platted lots, provided that:
      (A)   No more than one (1) mobile home shall occupy one (1) lot.
      (B)   The wheels and hauling tongue for transporting the mobile home
shall be removed.
      (C)   The set up of the mobile home conforms to the provisions for
manufactured home tie downs contained in the 2003 Building Code Appendix E and
the mobile home is underpinned with brick, concrete block or continuous
aluminum or vinyl siding around the perimeter of the structure.
      (D)   The mobile home is located on a lot of standard size for the
residential MHD and placed on the lot in such a manner as to present the front
door of the structure to an official street or roadway contiguous to the lot.
      (E)   The mobile home dimensions are at a minimum of twelve (12) feet by
thirty-five (35) feet for double-wide mobile homes, and
      (F)   Permanent front steps or a porch are constructed, installed and
attached to the mobile home.
      Note: The terms manufactured homes and mobile homes are used
interchangeably in this document.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-66-3   Mobile Home Parks provided that:
      (A)   The maximum number of mobile homes per acre shall not exceed eight
(8).
      (B)   Sanitary sewage, storm drainage, and water facilities shall be
required.
      (C)   Roadways which are not dedicated as public streets shall have a
minimum travel width of twenty (20) feet exclusive of parking.
      (D)   All roadways shall be paved with cement or asphalt.
      (E)   All roadway intersections shall be provided with a street light and
shall not be less than two hundred (200) feet apart.
      (F)   Each mobile home park shall have a minimum area of twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet set aside for common open space; in the case of a mobile
home park in excess of the five (5) acre minimum, or in the case of the
expansion of the mobile home park, two hundred (200) square feet of common open
space shall be added for each mobile home unit after the 50th unit.
      (G)   Plans for driveways, drainage and utilities shall be provided to
and reviewed by the city planner, engineer and building official. The building
official, engineer and planner shall advise the Planning Commission in writing
of any findings of fact prior to the Planning Commission’s decision to
recommend or deny the proposal. The building official shall also review all
plans for any findings of fact which relate to the proposed mobile home park's
compliance with all local and state codes regulating health and environmental
sanitation.
      (H)   If spaces for mobile homes are to be offered for sale, lots
proposed for sale shall be recorded according to the requirements of the
subdivision ordinance of the city. Application for subdivisions may be
processed in conjunction with the administrative review procedure required
under this ordinance to obtain authorization for development within a MHD.
      Note: The terms manufactured homes and mobile homes are used
interchangeably in this document.
5-4-66-4   Other Requirements.
      (A)   Other conditional uses may be permitted in the MHD as required, to
serve exclusively, in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the residents
of that particular district on the condition that each use as proposed shall be
in conformance with the current adopted standards for off-street parking and
that each proposed use shall submit a landscaping plan, to include a planting
plan, which shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the Planning
Commission. The above conditions must be met, plans approved and conditions
maintained in compliance with all applicable laws and codes for the duration of
the existence of the conditional use.
      (B)   The City Council may revoke any license to maintain and operate a
mobile home park when the licensee has been found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this ordinance. After such
conviction, the license may be reissued if the circumstances leading to the
conviction have been remedied and the park is being maintained and operated in
a manner consistent with, and in full compliance of, the law.
      (C)   The certification of zoning compliance shall be conspicuously
posted in the office or on the premises of the mobile home park.
      (D)   Existing mobile homes not in conformance with these regulations
shall be considered nonconforming uses and shall be governed by the regulations
set out in the City Code of Ordinances.
      Note: The terms manufactured homes and mobile homes are used
interchangeably in this document.
5-4-66-5   Bed and Breakfast Inns.
      The following requirements shall apply to bed and breakfast inns:
      (A)   The property owner shall live at the inn;
      (B)   Not more than six (6) rooms shall be rented to guests;
      (C)   Meals shall be served to registered guests only;
      (D)   No cooking facilities shall be allowed in guest rooms;
      (E)   Only short-term lodging shall be provided; monthly rentals shall be
prohibited;
      (F)   Use as a bed and breakfast inn shall produce no alteration or
change in character or exterior appearance of the principal building from that
of a dwelling;
      (G)   A sign is permitted, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-8;
      (H)   Parking is required, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-66-9.
5-4-66-6   Group Homes.
      Group homes are intended to provide living arrangements for mentally or
physically disabled persons in a neighborhood environment. Group homes provide
twenty-four (24) hour care for nine (9) or fewer persons and are approved or
licensed by a state agency or department or under contract with an agency or
department for that purpose. Residents of a group home are perceived as a
natural family as if related by blood or marriage. Following are specific
procedures for locating such a home:
      (A)   Prior to locating the home, the owner or operator must give prior
notice to the local governing body advising of the exact site of the proposed
home.
      (B)   The notice must identify the individual responsible for site
selection.
      (C)   If the local governing body objects to the selected site, it must
notify the individual responsible for site selection within fifteen (15) days
of receiving the notice. It must also appoint a representative to assist in
selecting a comparable, alternate site. This triggers the following actions:
         (1)   The site selection representative of the entity and the
representative of the governing body must select a third, mutually agreeable
person to assist with the selection.
         (2)   The three (3) people have forty five (45) days to make a final
site selection by majority vote.
         (3)   This final site selection is binding on both the proposing
entity and the governing body.
      (D)   In the event no selection is made by the end of the forty-five (45)
day period, the entity establishing the home shall select the site without
further proceedings.
      (E)   An application for a variance is not required.
      (F)   The licensing agency must screen prospective residents of these
homes to ensure that the placement is appropriate.
      (G)   The licensing agency shall conduct reviews of these homes at least
every six (6) months to promote the rehabilitative purposes of the homes and to
confirm compatibility with their neighborhoods.
      (H)   If the City of Dillon determines that other requirements of this
ordinance or other ordinances is violated by these procedures, it may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive or such other relief as the
court may consider proper.
5-4-66-7   Home Occupations.
      Home occupations are permitted in residential zones. The following
requirements shall apply to home occupations:
      (A)   Only members of the family residing on the premises shall be
engaged in the occupation;
      (B)   The occupation shall not involve the retail sale of merchandise
manufactured off the premises;
      (C)   No display of merchandise shall be visible from the street;
      (D)   The occupation shall not, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement
Director, create a nuisance or cause undue disturbance in the neighborhood due
to noise, fumes, or other impacts from the operation of the occupation;
      (E)   No sign shall be permitted, except one (1) non-illuminated
nameplate not more than two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the
wall of the principal building in which the occupation is conducted; sign
standards are found in §
5-4-66-8;
      (F)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions set forth in §
5-4-66-10;
      (G)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. An accessory
building may be used for home occupations, providing it is no larger than two
hundred fifty (250) square feet.
5-4-66-8   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Sign Required. Each residence or other principal building shall
have posted on the front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a
minimum of three (3) inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the MH
District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-66-8(C)(8) by erecting or constructing political signs, advertising signs,
mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate limits of Dillon
without obtaining approval from the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be subject
to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or imprisonment for not more than
thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense. Punishment for violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of On-Premises Signs. The removal of any on-premises sign
erected or maintained in violation of this ordinance or any on-premises sign
which has been abandoned, destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered
by the Code Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be
given to the owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such
sign is located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance. Upon failure to remove the sign, the city may remove the sign and
any costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner
prescribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected.
      (H)   Signs Permitted in the MH District.
         (1)   One (1) non-illuminated occupancy sign or nameplate not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of the
principal building in which a permissible home occupation is located.
         (2)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (3)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (4)   One (1) illuminated non-flashing sign identifying a bed and
breakfast inn or boarding house, providing it is located on the premises and
does not exceed four (4) square feet and providing it is no closer than five
(5) feet to a property line.
         (5)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (6)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (7)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, group home, multi-family housing
project, retirement home, cemetery, public recreation area, or other permitted
use, provided the sign is located on the premises.
         (8)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet, provided the sign is located on the premises.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010)
5-4-66-9   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for non-conforming buildings, structures,
or uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
5-4-66-10   Off-Street Parking.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required.  Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Each application for a building
permit, zoning permit, or certificate of occupancy shall include a plan showing
the space reserved for off-street parking and the means of ingress to and
egress from such space. This information shall be in a format sufficient for
the Code Enforcement Director to determine if the requirements of this section
are met.
      (B)   Travel or Camping Trailers.
         (1)   Not more than one (1) travel or camping trailer for each family
living on the premises shall be permitted on a lot in the MH Mobile Home
District.
         (2)   Travel or camping trailers are allowed to be parked or stored
only in the rear yard and side yard on a lot in the MH Mobile Home District.
         (3)   No travel or camping trailers shall be permitted to be parked
within the front yard on a lot in the MH Mobile Home District.
         (4)   Travel or camping trailers shall not be occupied temporarily or
permanently while parked or stored in the MH Mobile Home District.
      (C)   Commercial Vehicles.
         (1)   No commercial tractor trailers, farm vehicles, tankers or
commercial buses (excluding church buses, school buses or Pee Dee Regional
Transportation Authority buses) shall be permitted to be parked or stored in
the MH Mobile Home District.
         (2)   Commercial tractors are allowed to be parked in the MH Mobile
Home District only at the principal residence of the driver and shall meet all
minimum setback requirements in accordance with §
5-4-66-11.
         (3)   Parking of commercial tractors shall be limited to one (1)
vehicle per principal residence of the driver. Idling of the engine of
commercial tractors parked on residential premises shall not exceed five (5)
minutes.
         (4)   It shall be prohibited for anyone to perform preventive
maintenance on commercial tractors when parked on residential premises.
(Exception: Minor emergency repairs such as battery replacement.)
(Am. Ord. 00-17, passed 7-10-2000; Am. Ord. 08-26, passed 11-10-2008)
      (D)   Accessibility. Parking areas shall meet the requirements of the
South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for accessibility to disabled
persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (E)   Size of Parking Space.  The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long. In parking lots of more than ten (10) spaces,
not more than twenty percent (20%) of the spaces may be designated for compact
vehicles and may have dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet
long. Aisles for ingress and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty
(20) feet in width for head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width
for angled lot arrangements.
      (F)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Bed and breakfast inn                Two (2) spaces for the owners, plus one
                                     (1) space for each room for rent
Boarding house                       One (1) space for each room for rent
Church or place of worship           One (1) space for each four (4) seats in
                                     the sanctuary or assembly room
Day care facility                    One (1) space for each adult attendant
Dwelling, single-family, two-family, Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit
and manufactured home
Dwelling, multi-family               One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces for each
                                     dwelling unit
                                     One (1) space for each vehicle owned or
Elementary school                    operated by or for the school, plus two
                                     (2) spaces for each classroom and office
                                     One (1) space for each resident advisor,
Group home                           plus one (1) space for each agency
                                     vehicle used to transport clients
                                     One (1) space for each one hundred (100)
Home occupation                      square feet of space devoted to the home
                                     occupation, plus the normal residential
                                     requirement
                                     One (1) space for each vehicle owned or
Junior high or middle                operated by or for the school, plus two
                                     (2) spaces for each classroom and office
Nursing home, retirement home        One (1) space for each five (5) beds or
                                     rooms intended for patient use
Public or private club               One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                     square feet of gross floor space
                                     One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building              square feet of floor area available to
                                     the public, plus one (1) space for each
                                     employee
                                     One (1) space for each four (4)
                                     students, plus one (1) space for each
                                     faculty member and employee plus one (1)
Senior high school                   space for each vehicle owned and
                                     operated by or for the school, or one
                                     (1) space for each four (4) seats in the
                                     auditorium, whichever is larger
Stadium                              One (1) space for each four (4)
                                     spectator seats
 
   (G)   Dump trucks.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any dump truck to
allow such vehicle to be stored or parked within the (MH) Mobile Home District
inside the corporate city limits of Dillon.
      (2)   "Dump Truck" means a commercial heavy-duty vehicle with a dump body
and hydraulic system to include an open bed that is designed to transport sand,
gravel, asphalt, demolition debris and similar loose materials to or from a
work site and dump the load with an affixed powered hoist system.
      (3)   However, this section shall not apply to infrequent, short-term
parking for conveying materials to premises where labor using materials is
being performed, all only during the time such parking is actually necessary,
is hereby accepted from this section.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 13-07, passed 10-14-2013; Am. Ord.
24-12, passed 8-12-2024)
5-4-66-11   Lot Size and Setbacks.
      (A)   Minimum lot size and setbacks shall be in accordance with the
following schedule of dimensional requirements
 
Minimum lot area      5,000 square feet for single-family dwelling
                      6,000 square feet for two-family dwellings
Front setback minimum 20 feet
Side setback minimum  5 feet
Rear setback minimum  20 feet
 
      (B)   An accessory building or use may be located within the rear
setback, provided that it is not located closer than four (4) feet to any
property line. Structures on corner lots shall observe the front yard
requirements of the street which they face. Side yard requirements on corner
lots shall be ten (10) feet greater than the minimum setback on the side of the
lot facing the street. No accessory building on the corner lot shall extend
beyond the building line of structures facing the intersecting street; provided
that this requirement shall not be applied so as to reduce the building width
of a corner lot of record at the time of passage of this ordinance to less than
thirty (30) feet.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-66-12   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers (except communications towers),
masts, and other similar structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the
district height limit. However, such structures shall be separated from any
adjoining lot line of a lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one
(1) foot for each two (2) feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
5-4-66-13   Visibility At Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
5-4-66-14   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-66-15   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
5-4-66-16   Housing Construction Standards.
      All conventionally constructed homes located in the city shall be built
under inspection by the Building Inspector and shall comply with the applicable
International Building Codes as adopted and amended by the South Carolina
Building Code Council. Manufactured homes located in the city after the
adoption of this ordinance shall have evidence of inspection during
construction under the standards of the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development under authority of 42 U.S.C. § 5401 and shall meet these standards
upon location within the city.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-66-17   Family Day Care Homes (M-H) District.
      (A)   Definitions.
         In addition to the definitions which follow, words not defined herein
shall have the meanings stated in the latest edition of the South Carolina
Department of Social Services Regulations for Family Day Care Homes:
         CAREGIVER means any person whose duties include direct care,
supervision, and guidance of children in a family day care home.
         CHILDCARE OPERATOR means the person ultimately responsible for the
overall operation of the family day care home.
         FAMILY DAY CARE HOME means a state licensed or approved registered
facility within a residence occupied by the operator in which childcare is
provided on a regular basis for periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours per
day for no more than six (6) children, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian, including those children living in the home and children received for
childcare who are related to the resident caregiver.
         INFANT means a child age twelve (12) months or younger.
         MINOR CHILD means a person who has not reached the eighteenth
birthday.
         REGISTRATION means the process whereby all family day care homes are
licensed/approved and regulated in accordance with the provisions of the latest
edition of the South Carolina Department of Social Services Regulations and
South Carolina Child Care Licensing Law for Family Day Care Homes.
         RELATED means any of the following relationships by marriage, blood,
or adoption: parent, grandparent, brother, sister, stepparent, stepsister,
stepbrother, uncle, aunt, cousin of the first degree.
         REGULARLY, OR ON A REGULAR BASIS: these terms refer to the frequency
with which childcare services are available and provided at a family day care
home in any one (1) week; these terms mean the availability and provision of
periods of daycare less than twenty-four (24) hours per day in such week, in a
place other than the child's or the children's own home or homes.
      (B)   Application Procedure.
         Applications for family day care homes within a (M-H) Mobile Home
District shall be submitted for approval to the Zoning Board of Appeals and
shall include the following information and any reasonable additional
information requested:
         (1)   Childcare operator must own the property of the proposed day
care location or provide a letter of approval from the property owner giving
approval and authorization to the childcare operator to operate a family day
care home at that location.
         (2)   The family day care home hours of operation must be reviewed and
approved by the Board. No after dark operating hours are permitted.
         (3)   A clearly identified children's drop-off and pick-up zone must
be identified.
         (4)   Off-street parking for employees and two (2) visitor slots are
required.
         (5)   A Recreation Plan must be submitted to the Board. The Board will
review the plan for location, visibility, congestion, safety and other factors.
No outdoor recreation activities shall be permitted before 9:00 a.m.
         (6)   An exterior lighting plan must be submitted to, and approved by
the Board.
         (7)   No activities associated with family day care homes, except
drop-off and pick-up of children, may take place in the front yard of the day
care location.
         (8)   Family day care home recreation activities must be located
within the rear of the yard and enclosed by a brick, masonry, chain linked or
other similar fence which cannot be buckled or moved by a seventy-five (75)-
pound child running into the fence. Such fence must be constructed in such a
way that will prevent a child from easily climbing over or going under the
fence. The recreation area must be a minimum of four hundred fifty (450) square
feet for one (1) to six (6) children.
         (9)   No external sign shall exceed one (1) square foot. Signs must be
non-illuminated, non-animated and shall be attached to the house.
         (10)   The front of the family day care home must be landscaped to
appear as a residence.
         (11)   The family day care home and grounds must be kept painted,
mowed and clean at all times.
         (12)   The color of the family day care home must be homogeneous with
the neighborhood.
      (C)   Business License Required.
         A business license is required prior to engaging in business as a
family day care home. No business license shall be issued to a childcare
operator of a proposed family day care home until the location has been
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals and a registered and/or licensed
approval has been obtained from the South Carolina Department of Social
Services for compliance with the Regulations for Family Day Care Homes.
      (D)   Conflict with other Laws, Ordinances, Regulations and Restrictive
Covenants.
         Whenever the requirements made under authority of these regulations
impose higher standards than are required in any statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenants, provisions of the regulations shall
govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenants impose higher standards than are required
by these regulations, the provisions of such statute or local ordinance or
regulation or restrictive covenant shall apply.
(Ord. 09-10, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 5-4-67 RU RURAL DISTRICT.
   This district is intended to: (1) protect and encourage agricultural
endeavors and promote the wise use of prime agricultural and forest lands; (2)
protect and encourage the integrity of existing rural communities; (3) protect
valuable natural and cultural resources; (4) maintain open space and scenic
areas contiguous to development areas.
5-4-67-1   Permitted Uses.
Building material suppliers, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical sales and services
Churches and other places of worship
Clubs, lodges, civic, fraternal, social, or similar non- profit organizations
Commercial horticulture or agriculture (excluding farm animals)
Convenience stores
Day care facilities
Finance, insurance, and real estate offices, including banks and loan offices
Funeral homes and mortuaries
Government buildings or facilities
Horticultural nurseries and greenhouses
Hospital
Hotels and motels
Offices for commercial, personal medical, legal and other services
Parking lots in accordance with §
5-4-67-8
Printing plants for newspapers and other printers
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Recreational vehicle parks, in association with a hotel or motel, and subject
to the provisions of the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise on premises, including food
stores, retail stores, automobile dealers, service stations, apparel and
accessories, eating and drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail
sale of prepared food and drinks which may also serve alcoholic beverages as a
subordinate to meals for on-premises consumption (but excluding alcoholic
drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic
drinks, such as night clubs, saloons, taverns, wine bars, beer garden drinking
places, beer parlor tap rooms, beer taverns, bottle club drinking places,
cabarets, cocktail lounges, discotheque alcoholic beverages, tap room drinking
places and alcoholic beverage bar drinking places primarily providing services
such as beer, ale, wine, whiskey and liquor for on-premise consumption.)
(Manufactured home sales lots, boat and trailer sales are also hereby excluded)
Retirement homes, convalescent homes, and nursing homes
Sales lots for farm machinery, truck trailers and campers, and other equipment
requiring outdoor storage
Services to individuals and businesses, including personal services, social
services, business supplies and services, amusement and recreation,
entertainment, health services, auto washing facilities, and rental services
Shopping centers, containing uses permitted in the district (see Dillon Land
Development Regulations for development standards)
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-67-5
Telephone, telegraph, radio, and television services
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-67-7
Veterinary services and animal shelters
 
(Am. Ord 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Sign required. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited within the RU
District:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this division.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited signs on rights-of-way. Political signs, advertising
signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public
rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the corporate
limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct such
signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
and/or the city.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-67-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
advertising signs, mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Revenue and/or the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or imprisonment
for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of violation shall
be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall be considered
a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine herein provided, the city may remove
the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way or
private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this division.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of on-premises signs. The removal of any sign erected or
maintained in violation of this section or any sign which has been abandoned,
destroyed, or substantially damaged, shall be ordered by the Code Enforcement
Officer. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be given to the owner of such
sign, or of the building or premises on which such sign is located, to remove
the sign or bring it into compliance with this section. Upon failure to remove
the sign, the city may remove the sign. Any costs of removal incurred by the
city may be collected in a manner proscribed by law.
      (G)   Temporary signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected. Mobile signs may be permitted for a
temporary fixed period of time, not to exceed ninety (90) days.
      (H)   Signs permitted in the RU District.
         (1)   Applicable signs permitted in residential districts.
          (2)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The total area
of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the front surface of the building facing either a public pedestrian or
vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (3)   Business signs mounted flat against the rear and/or side surface
of the building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The
total area of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the rear and side surface of the building facing either a
public pedestrian or vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (4)   On premises business signs. Free standing signs, for each
business on the premises under separate management, providing that:
            (a)   Such signs shall be limited to one (1) per one hundred (100)
feet of lot frontage along a major street or highway.
            (b)   No portion of such signs shall extend over any structure or
adjoining property line.
            (c)   Such signs shall be no higher than thirty (30) feet nor lower
than ten (10) feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or pavement.
            (d)   Such signs shall not exceed one hundred thirty (130) square
feet in total area.
         (5)   Business signs, for shopping centers, in accordance with the
standards set forward in the city’s Land Development Regulations.
         (6)   Business signs suspended under canopies, providing that such
signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per building entrance.
            (b)   Be a minimum of nine (9) feet above the sidewalk surface.
            (c)   Not to exceed three (3) square feet in total area.
         (7)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (8)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs shall be removed promptly
after completion of work.
         (9)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, not exceeding two (2) square feet.
         (10)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (11)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, lodge, civic or fraternal, group
home, public recreation area or social organization may be located in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South Carolina Department of
Transportation and/or the city.
         (12)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet may be located in the public rights-of-way or private easements of streets
and roads within the corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South
Carolina Department of Transportation and/or the city.
(Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-12, passed 11-8-2010; Am. Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-3   Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for nonconforming buildings, structures, or
uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit.
(Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-4   Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (A)   Off-street parking required. Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Required parking spaces shall be
provided on properly graded and improved open space in a parking structure.
Each application for a building permit, zoning permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall include a plan showing the space reserved for off-street
parking and the means of ingress to and egress from such space. This
information shall be in a format sufficient for the Code Enforcement Director
to determine if the requirements of this section are met.
      (B)   Combination of required parking space. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required
space assigned to one use may not be assigned to any other use, except that
one-half of the parking spaces required for churches, theaters, or other uses
whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use
which will be closed at night or on Sundays.
      (C)   Remote parking space. If the off-street parking space required by
this section cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is located, such space may be provided on any land within four
hundred (400) feet of the principal use; providing that such land is in the
same ownership as the principal use or has been legally restricted for parking
in connection with the principal use.
      (D)   Design of parking area. All off-street parking shall be designed so
that vehicles can turn around within the area and enter the street, road, or
highway in such a manner as to completely eliminate the necessity of backing
into the street, road, or highway.
      (E)   Accessibility. Parking areas shall meet the requirements of the
South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for accessibility to disabled
persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (F)   Size of parking space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long; provided that not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the spaces may be designed for compact vehicles and may have
dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet long. Aisles for ingress
and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width for
head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width for angled lot
arrangements.
      (G)    Minimum off-street parking requirements. The following minimum
number of spaces shall be provided in the B-2 District. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Auditorium and theater           One (1) space for each four (4) seats
                                 One (1) space for each three hundred (300)
Bank                             square feet of gross floor space, plus one (1)
                                 space for each two (2) employees
Church or place of worship       One (1) space for each four (4) seats in the
                                 sanctuary or assembly room
Convenience store                One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                 square feet of floor area
Day care facility                One (1) space for each adult attendant
Funeral home                     One (1) space for each vehicle owned, plus one
                                 (1) space for each employee
Hospital                         One (1) space for each patient bed, plus one
                                 (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each room to be rented, plus
Hotel, motel, or tourist court   one (1) space for each three (3) employees,
                                 plus requirements for any other use associated
                                 with the establishment
                                 One (1) space for each one hundred and eighty
                                 (180) square feet of floor or ground area, or
Indoor and outdoor commercial    one (1) space for each four (4) seats,
                                 whichever is needed, plus one (1) space for
                                 each two employees
                                 One (1) space for every one hundred fifty
Medical or dental office         (150) square feet of floor area, plus one (1)
                                 space for each doctor and employee
Nursing home or retirement home  One (1) space for each five (5) beds intended
                                 for patient use
Office and professional building One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
                                 square feet of gross floor area
Public or private club           One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                 square feet of gross floor space
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square feet of floor area available to the
                                 public, plus one (1) space for each employee
Restaurant                       One (1) space for each three (3) seats, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                     square feet of floor area used for sales, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses     square feet of floor area available to
                                 customers, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                 employees
Service station                  One (1) space for each car stored, plus one
                                 (1) for each employee
                                 Five and one-half (5 1/2) spaces for every one
Shopping center                  thousand (1,000) square feet of gross leasable
                                 floor space
Stadium                          One (1) space for each four (4) spectator
                                 seats
 
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 13-07, passed 10-14-2013; Am. Ord.
16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-5 Off-Street Loading Requirements.
   All retail uses with a total floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square feet
or more hereafter erected shall have one (1) off-street loading berth for each
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area. Such space shall have access
to an alley, or if there is no alley, to the street.
   (A)   Size and design. Off-street loading berths required in this section
shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet wide by twenty-five (25) feet
long with fourteen (14) feet overhead clearance, and shall have adequate means
on ingress and egress. Loading spaces shall be designed so that the vehicles
can maneuver for loading and unloading entirely within the property lines of
the premises.
   (B)   Plan. Each application for a zoning permit, building permit, or
Certificate of Occupancy for a commercial building over ten thousand (10,000)
square feet shall include a plan showing the required off-street loading space
and the means of ingress to and egress from such space.
(Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-6   Lot Size and Setback.
   Minimum front setback is twenty-five (25) feet. There are no required side
or rear setbacks. On lots adjacent to a district where residences are
permitted, there shall be a setback on the side abutting the residential
district of not less than the minimum width required in the district it abuts.
All buildings in a shopping center shall be set back from all street right-of-
way lines not less than fifty (50) feet; from side property lines abutting a
district where residences are permitted not less than twenty-five (25) feet;
and from the rear property line not less than twenty-five (25) feet. Additional
standards for shopping centers may be found in the city’s Land Development
Regulations.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-7   Height Standards.
   The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet, with
the following exceptions:
   (A)   Structures permitted above the height limit. Chimneys, poles, spires,
tanks, towers, masts, and other similar structures not used for human occupancy
may exceed the district height limit. However, such structures shall be
separated from any adjoining lot line of a lot in a residential zone by a
distance equal to one (1) foot for each two (2) feet of structure height.
   (B)   Roof structures housing equipment. Roof structures for housing
elevators, stairways, ventilating fans, heating or air-conditioning equipment,
or similar equipment required for the operation and maintenance of a building
may be erected above the height limit in this district.
(Am. Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-8   Visibility At Intersections.
   On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2 1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
(Am. Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-9   Visibility For Street Entrances.
   At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing shall
be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of the
Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
(Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-10   Flood Plain Standards.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall comply with the applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
(Am. Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-11   Standards for Recreational Vehicle Parks.
   Recreational vehicle parks are allowed as a use within the RU District only
in conjunction with hotels and motels. Standards for the development of
recreational vehicle parks are listed in the city’s Land Development
Regulations.
(Ord. 16-15, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-67-12   Visibility For Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
5-4-67-13   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
5-4-67-14   Housing Construction Standards.
      All conventionally constructed homes located in the city shall be built
under inspection by the Building Inspector and shall comply with the applicable
International Building Codes as adopted and amended by the South Carolina
Building Code Council. Manufactured homes located in the city after the
adoption of this ordinance shall have evidence of inspection during
construction under the standards of the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development under authority of 42 U.S.C. § 5401 and shall meet these standards
upon location within the city.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
DILLON HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2449.bmp]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2452.bmp]
§ 5-4-68 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Dillon Historic Overlay Ordinance is hereby establish according to
the S.C. Code, Title 6, Chapter 29-720-C-(5).
   (B)   The purpose of the Dillon Historic Overlay Ordinance is to identify
Dillon Historic Designations: Commercial Districts, Residential Districts,
Neighborhoods, notable properties and properties listed on the National
Register of Historic Places and to promote the educational, cultural and
general welfare of the public through the identification, preservation,
protection and enhancement of the historic or architecturally worthy structures
and properties and areas of the city; and to maintain such as visible reminders
of the history and cultural heritage of the city, the state and the nation.
Where the term Dillon Historic Designation is used in the article or in any
supplementary materials, it shall apply to any area or property within the city
limits designated by the City Council following the standards and procedures
set forth in this ordinance. However, where there is a reference to a specific
type of district or property that reference shall apply and supersede any other
reference.
§ 5-4-69 DESIGNATIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the Dillon Historic Designations of
Commercial Districts, Residential Districts, Neighborhoods, notable properties
and properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places are hereby
established and are governed by the Historic Overlay Ordinance. The boundaries
of the districts, neighborhoods, notable properties and National Register sites
shall be designated on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Dillon. All
Dillon Historic Designations are subject to standards, guidelines and
procedures as set forth herein.
§ 5-4-70 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   There may be designated one (1) or more districts within the city limits
provided that each district consists of at least five (5) acres of contiguous
land and the public streetscape is included. The review criteria for the
different districts, with the exception of the Dillon Historic Neighborhoods,
which have more flexible standards, will be reviewed by the standards listed in
§
5-4-72 (D) Consistent Policies. The streetscape shall include any and all
elements on or visible from public rights-of-way, parking areas, and areas
where easements have been secured. Such elements shall include design,
streetscape elements, vegetation, trees, light fixtures, portable signage and
other visual elements whether portable or permanent. The purpose of including
the streetscape is to enhance the visual image of the historic districts
through a well planned coordinated design concept involving all elements placed
on or that are visible from public rights of way and areas where easements have
been secured.
   (A)   Commercial Districts.
      The Dillon Downtown Commercial District established in June 2000 is
defined on the original Map.
      (1)   Intent of a Commercial District.
         (a)   Preserve, to reinforce, and enhance the quality of commercial
activity, the architectural character, and the physical scale of the commercial
district.
         (b)   Encourage coordinated and planned use of the district as:
            1.   An attractive central business district.
            2.   A central area serving the adjoining residential
neighborhoods.
            3.   A location for active but controlled commercial activity.
         (c)   Encourage rehabilitation of historic structures, development and
restoration in harmony with architectural scale and style of the district
through an integrated mixture of residential and commercial uses; and
         (d)   Discourage the intrusion of incompatible uses, the demolition of
historic structures, and unnecessary removal or pruning of trees, and the
creation of visually prominent parking areas.
      (2)   Permitted Uses.
Apartments located in existing or new buildings on floor levels that do not
exit immediately to ground level
Clubs, lodges, civic, fraternal, social, or similar non-profit organizations on
floor levels that do not exit immediately to ground level
Convenience stores
Day care facilities
Finance, insurance, and real estate offices, including banks and loan offices
Government buildings or facilities
Offices for commercial, personal, medical, legal and other services
Parking lots
Public utility substations and facilities
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise on premises, including food
stores, retail stores, automobile dealers, service stations, apparel and
accessories, eating and drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail
sale of prepared food and drinks which may also serve alcoholic beverages as a
subordinate to meals for on-premises consumption (but excluding alcoholic
drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic
drinks, such as night clubs, saloons, taverns, wine bars, beer garden drinking
places, beer parlor tap rooms, beer taverns, bottle club drinking places,
cabarets, cocktail lounges, discotheque alcoholic beverages, tap room drinking
places and alcoholic beverage bar drinking places primarily providing services
such as beer, ale, wine, whiskey and liquor for on-premises consumption.
Manufactured home sales lots, boat and trailer sales lots are also hereby
excluded)
Services to individuals and businesses, including personal services, social
services, business supplies and services, amusement and recreation,
entertainment, health services, and repair services and rental services for
household items, (but excluding establishments primarily engaged in operating
pool rooms or pool parlors, billiard rooms or billiard parlors; either in their
own or in other places of business)
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-59-2
Telephone, telegraph, radio, and television services, but excluding
communications towers
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-59-3
 
         (a)   The following words and phrases, whenever used in this
ordinance, shall be construed as defined in this section:
            1.   "Alcoholic Drinking Place" means an establishment that is
primarily devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by
guests on the premises, deriving fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue
from the sale of alcohol and in which the serving of meals is only incidental
to the consumption of such beverages.
            2.   "Restaurant" means an establishment that is primarily devoted
to the serving of food and drinks for consumption by guests on the premises,
deriving fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of food and
drinks in which the serving of alcoholic drinks is only incidental to the
consumption of such meals. The business must have a Class A restaurant license
from the Department of Health and Environmental Control and must have a kitchen
that is used solely for the preparation, serving and disposal of solid foods
that make up meals to include seating for not less than forty (40) persons
simultaneously at tables for the service of meals.
            3.   "Meals" means an assortment of various prepared foods which
shall be available to guests on the licensed premises during normal mealtimes
which occur when the licensed business establishment is open to the public.
Sandwiches, boiled eggs, sausages and other snacks prepared off the licensed
premises but sold thereon, shall not constitute a meal. The business must have
a menu or a posted listing of available meals. Hot meals must be prepared at
least once each day the business is open for business.
            4.   "Primarily" means for the most part of a business activity
engaged in by a business establishment.
         (b)   Drive-through windows shall not be permissible with any of the
aforementioned permitted uses within the Dillon Historic Overlay District.
(Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 4-11-2005)
      (3)   Architectural and Site Design Requirements.
         (a)   Off-street parking shall not be established between the street
and the front facade of the structure.
         (b)   Floors or porches shall be at the same level as floors within
the structure or within eight (8) inches of the level of those floors.
         (c)   The predominant eave-line for new construction shall be two (2)
stories in height. However, if existing structures over fifty (50) years old on
both sides of the proposed structure are single story then the new structure
must be single story. For the purpose of this subsection, a story shall have a
maximum height of fourteen (14) feet and a minimum height of nine (9) feet from
finished floor to finished floor.
         (d)   There shall be no flat roof without a parapet or a balustrade at
least three (3) feet in height erected above the roofline of the facade
structure.
      (4)   Public Sidewalk Planters and Window Boxes.
         (a)   DOT Criteria.
            1.   Public sidewalk must have five (5) feet of clear unobstructed
space, measured from the inside of the curb.
            2.   Street corners shall not have any obstruction of view for
pedestrians or vehicular
traffic.
            3.   Entry ways: Planters and plant materials must not be within
twenty-four (24) inches of an entry way.
         (b)   Definitions.
            1.   PLANTER. Container in which ornamental plants are grown.
            2.   WINDOW BOX. Container designed to hold soil for growing plants
at a windowsill, either on window sill or support brackets.
            3.   OWNER. COA applicant.
         (c)   Historic District.
            1.   COA is required for original planters and any future planters
which are not exact replacements.
            2.   No COA is required for the types of plant materials.
            3.   Owner assumes full responsibility and liability for planters,
window boxes and plant materials.
            4.   Hanging containers are not permitted due to there instability/
movement and height requirements (eight (8) feet minimum).
(Am. Ord. 03-25, passed 12-8-2003)
      (5)   Planters.
         (a)   Planter Placement.
            1.   a.   Planter must be placed up against the facade of the
building.
               b.   Planter shall not be placed in the area behind the city
benches plus six (6) feet either side so as to maintain the eighteen (18) foot
pedestrian clearance.
            2.   a.   Planter may not extend more than twenty-four (24) inches
toward street into sidewalk from the facade.
               b.   Plant materials must not extend more that thirty (30)
inches into the sidewalk area.
         (b)   Planter Specifications.
            1.   Appearance must be tasteful and appropriate for historic
district.
            2.   Planter shall not be permanently attached to the sidewalk.
            3.   Planter shall be of substantial material and weight so as not
to be blown over or easily turned over.
            4.   Planter must contain live plant materials, artificial plant
material is not allowed.
            5.   Planter shall not display any advertising signage.
            6.   Planter must be removed if owner does not keep it planted and
well maintained. If owner is requested by city to remove the planter(s) for
non-compliance, a daily fine shall be imposed on the owner.
         (c)   Horticulture.
            1.   Plant materials shall be well maintained, dead material is to
be replaced.
            2.   Plant materials must be kept pruned so as not touch the
sidewalk and interfere with pedestrian traffic.
            3.   Vines and trailing plants must be kept pruned off the sidewalk
and facades.
         (d)   Maintenance.
            1.   Planter and area around planter must be kept clean and free of
litter and plant debris
            2.   Water runoff from planters must not remain on sidewalk as must
be immediately removed
(Am. Ord. 03-25, passed 12-8-2003)
      (6)   Window Boxes.
         (a)   Window boxes, brackets and decorative hardware may not extend
further than twelve (12) inches from the facade.
         (b)   Boxes must be placed under windows (ground level or second
floor) either on the sill or brackets.
         (c)   Boxes shall be securely attached to the facade. The use of metal
brackets is preferred.
         (d)   Boxes must contain live plant materials.
            1.   Plant materials on the lower facade may not extend more than
twenty-four (24) inches and may not touch the sidewalk.
            2.   Second floor boxes must not have plant materials extending
more than thirty (30) inches toward the sidewalk.
            3.   Water and plant debris must be kept off the sidewalk.
         (e)   Boxes shall not display any advertising signage.
         (f)   Boxes must be removed if owner does not keep them planted and
maintained or if owner vacates/abandons the building. If owner is requested by
city to remove the boxes for noncompliance, a daily fine shall be imposed on
the owner.
(Am. Ord. 03-25, passed 12-8-2003)
      (7)   Sidewalk Sales. It is the intent and purpose of this division (A)
(7) to benefit the residents of the city as a whole in order to allow sidewalk
sales to be permitted within the designated Dillon Downtown Commercial Historic
Overlay District within guidelines, so as to promote pedestrian traffic in the
commercial area of downtown, enhancing the attractiveness of the downtown, and
making beverages, food and retail wares conveniently available for members of
the public, without creating a health and safety hazard or inconveniencing
pedestrians, the following provisions of this division (A)(7) are hereby
adopted.
         (a)   Definitions. For the purposes of this division (A)(7) the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
            ABUTTING RETAIL BUSINESS PROPERTY. Any real property used for
retail business which abut, but is not located in the public sidewalk area.
            APPLICANT. Any individual business owner, firm, partnership,
corporation, the agent or employee having charge or control of a business in
the absence of the principals.
            EFFECTIVE WALKUP WIDTH.  That portion of the sidewalk in the public
sidewalk area which is reasonably available for use by the pedestrian stream
moving through the area including use by persons using mobility aid devices.
            PUBLIC SIDEWALK AREA. The sidewalk area located in the public
right-of-way or in an area in which the public has an easement for sidewalk
purposes, or both.
            SIDEWALK SALES AREA. The effective walkup width area of the public
sidewalk in front of commercial buildings of which the perimeter do not
encroach beyond the first. thirty (30) inches (two-and-a-half feet) from the
front property line of each retail business property, perimeter is measured
from the business front property line.
         (b)   SCDOT Criteria.
            1.   The effect of walkway width of the public sidewalk shall have
five (5) feet of clear unobstructed space, measured from the inside of the
curb. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the individual business owner
or applicant having charge or control of a business conducting sidewalk sales
to calculate the proposed five (5) feet pedestrian effective walkway width area
to insure that sidewalk sales does not materially impede accessibility for use
by the pedestrian stream moving through the area including use by persons using
mobility aid devices.
            2.   Street. corners shall not. have any obstruction of view for
pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
         (c)   Requirements. It. shall be the duty and responsibility of the
individual business owner or applicant having charge or control of a business
conducting sidewalk sales to:
            1.   Provide a document, approved as to form by the City Attorney,
in which the individual owner or applicant agrees to indemnify and hold
harmless the city for losses, damages, claims or expenses arising out. of the
use of the sidewalk sales area, the city shall not be liable for any injury to
property or personal injury, including death, caused by the failure to maintain
sidewalk sales in a reasonably safe condition;
               2.   Calculate the proposed five (5) feet, pedestrian effective
walkway width area to insure that sidewalk sale's does not materially impede
accessibility for use by the pedestrian stream moving through the area
including use by persons using mobility aid devices, the effect, of walkway
width of the public sidewalk shall have five (5) feet of clear unobstructed
space, measured from the inside of the curb;
               3.   Ensure sidewalk sales area be located next to the abutting
retail business property, and all items be placed within the perimeter of the
sidewalk sales area as provided within the provisions of this division (A)(7);
and
               4.   Assure the sidewalk will not be littered, to include
providing placement of adequate trash receptacles and periodic picking up of
litter in the sidewalk sales area.
         (d)   Location.
            1.   Sidewalk sales shall only be allowed within the designated
Dillon Downtown Commercial Historic Overlay District in front of commercial
buildings adjacent to a sidewalk by the retail business owner and/or applicant
of subject lot, provided that the sidewalk sales space do not encroach beyond
the first thirty (30) inches (two-and-a-half feet) from the front property line
of the commercial building.
            2.   No part of the sidewalk sales area shall be located within:
               a.   Fifteen (15) feet of any bus loading zone;
               b.   Five (5) feet of any taxi stand area, cross walk, driveway,
alleyway, or access ramp; or
               c.   Five (5) feet of any building standpipe or building
hydrant, unless the Fire Chief or Fire Chief's designee determines upon
inspection that access to the standpipe or hydrant is not impeded by a sidewalk
sales area that is within five (5) feet of the standpipe or hydrant.
         (e)   Restrictions.
            1.   Sidewalk sales by an individual business owner or applicant
having charge or control of a business as permitted under this division (A)(7)
shall only be allowed to sell or display merchandise, beginning at sun up and
ending at sundown.
            2.   Sidewalk sales shall not be accompanied by crying out or
hawking.
            3.   When sidewalk sales activity is not being conducted, the
individual business owner or applicant shall immediately remove from the
sidewalk sales area all display of merchandise associated with the sidewalk
sales.
            4.   Pedestrians shall not be exposed to any undue safety or health
hazard nor shall a public nuisance be created, and, not withstanding other
sections of this division (A)(7), the individual business owner or applicant
shall keep the public sidewalk area in front of or adjacent to the sidewalk
sales area abutting retail business property cleared at all times.
            5.   Sales of beverages and food may not be made to a person in or
on any motorized vehicle.
            6.   The individual business owner or applicant shall be required
to obey the commands of city code enforcement officials, law enforcement
officials, firefighters, and all other public authorities acting pursuant to
law with respect to activity carried out in the sidewalk sales area.
         (f)   Violations. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to
two hundred dollars ($200) or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days
upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Punishment. for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability for
delinquent penalties and costs provided for herein.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 5-14-2018)
   (B)   Residential Districts.
      A Dillon Residential District was established in June 2000 and is defined
as shown on the original Map.
      (1)   Intent of a Historic Residential District.
         (a)   Reserved for low density residential purposes and the
preservation of the residential streetscape.
         (b)   Encouragement of restoration and preservation of historic
structures, out buildings, and enclosures such as fences and gates.
         (c)   Restrict further development to structures that may vary in
design but relate to or are compatible with the specific area, street or block.
         (d)   To protect the district from new construction that does not
reflect the historic character area.
         (e)   Avoid unwarranted encroachment of commercial or other uses
affecting the historic character of a residential district or the streetscape.
      (2)   Permitted Use.
         All uses permitted within the R-7 Single-Family Residential District
as shown in §
5-4-57-7, (but excluding and prohibiting two-family dwellings (duplexes) and
multi-family dwellings as permitted uses within the designated residential
boundaries of the Historic Overlay District):
         (a)   Parking.
            1.   Minimum off-street parking requirements: §
5-4-57-7.
            2.   Off-street parking shall be provided and shall not be
established between the street and the front facade of the structure. Off-
street parking may be provided by a public parking area located not more than
three hundred (300) feet from the structure.
            3.   Parking areas planned for more than three (3) vehicles require
appropriate screening from adjoining properties and public right-of-ways.
            4.   Hardscape areas (parking, walks, driveways, patios) must be
surfaced with reduced noise materials appropriate for the district
            5.   All light fixtures for parking and hardscape areas must be
appropriate for the district and shall not be placed as to brightly illuminate
adjoining properties or the public right-of-way.
            6.   New planned parking areas shall not cause the unnecessary
removal of trees. Protection from ground compaction shall be provided for each
tree to the drip line
         (b)   Waste Storage, Trash Containers . Services and materials
connected with adaptive use shall not be located between the street and the
front facade of the structure and must be appropriately screened from adjoining
properties and public rights of way.
         (c)   Signage. In addition to the underlying district ordinances:
            1.   Interior illuminated signs are prohibited.
            2.   No sign which displays intermittent or flashing illumination.
            3.   No more than one (1) freestanding sign and/or one (1) wall
sign.
      (3)   Adaptive Use.
         Historic structures, notable structures and structures in a
residential historic district may be adapted for permitted uses as listed for
R-7 in §
5-4-57. A COA and an adaptive use permit are required.
         (a)   Restrictions.
            1.   Revocable if all conditions and restrictions are not met.
            2.   The permit is considered null and void if not in operation
within one (1) year of original date of issue.
            3.   Non-transferable.
            4.   Change in adaptive use requires a new permit.
         (b)   Procedure and Requirements. Submit the following to Planning and
Zoning Commission:
            1.   Certificate of Appropriateness.
            2.   Business overview listing type of business, hours of
operation, expected volume, and percentage used for adaptive use and residence
use.
            3.   Site plan, to scale, indicating off-street parking
accommodations, traffic flow, entrances and exits, buffer areas, and placement
of trash and storage containers.
         (c)   Planning and Zoning Commission shall take into account:
            1.   Impact to the neighborhood.
            2.   Appropriateness of maintaining the character of the
neighborhood.
            3.   Traffic flow.
            4.   Public opinion.
            5.   Adaptive, productive use of a historic structure.
            6.   The unnecessary removal of trees and shrubbery.
      (4)   Adaptive Use Permit Criteria §§
5-4-57-2 through
4.
         Uses permitted in the R-7 code
5-4-57; 2-4: Bed & Breakfast (B&B), B&B Inn, Group Homes, Home Occupations,
Multi-Family Dwellings require that a COA is obtained and the property meet all
applicable building and fire codes and comply with all business licenses,
revenue collection, and health laws of he City of Dillon, and the State of
South Carolina.
         (a)   Bed and Breakfasts (Homestay, Host Home, Cottage, Guesthouse).
            1.   Definition. Bed and Breakfast (Home Occupation, §
5-4-57-4): This type facility is defined as primarily a resident occupied
single-family dwelling or portion thereof, offering lodging for compensation,
with or without breakfast, to guests residing no more than seven (7)
consecutive days. No meals other than breakfast may be served to overnight
guests unless catered.
            2.   Restrictions. There must be no other B&B within the historic
district located within five hundred (500) feet of the proposed B&B. Distances
shall be measured from the property line.
         (b)   Bed and Breakfast Inns (Manors).
            Proposed B&B inns may make application to the Planning and Zoning
Commission prior to operation as a bed and breakfast and in addition, serve
meals and host such events as wedding receptions and business meetings, and
reunions by providing the following for consideration:
            1.   Business plan with floor plan of serving areas and kitchen
facilities, sample of menus, hours of operation, expected volume, percentage of
structure to be used for serving versus guestroom use.
            2.   Site plan, to scale, indicating off-street parking
accommodations, hardscape areas, traffic flow, entrances and exits, buffer
areas, placement of trash and storage containers.
            3.   Restrictions. There must be no other B&B within the historic
district located within five hundred (500) feet of the proposed B&B. Distances
shall be measured from the property line.
            4.   Planning and Zoning shall take into account:
               a.    Impact to the neighborhood.
               b.   Appropriateness of maintaining the character of the
neighborhood.
               c.   Traffic flow.
               d.   Noise and light levels at night.
               e.   Adaptive, productive use of a historic structure.
               f.   Public opinion.
            5.   Group Homes. Provided that they conform to the special
requirements of this subsection of §
5-4-47-3.
               a.   Off-street, on site parking must be provided at the
location of the group home for a number of vehicles, which shall not exceed the
number of existing bedrooms, plus one (1) vehicle found at that location.
               b.   No on-premises signage or on-premises advertising of a
structure as a group home will be permitted.
            6.   Multi-Family Dwellings.
               Interior modification of structures is allowed to accommodate
two (2) to three (3) dwelling units provided further that the total combined
living area should be at least two thousand (2,000) square feet for a two-
family and, at least three thousand (3,000) square feet for a three-family
unit.
            7.    Public Use. Land adapted for public use such as recreation,
public utility stations requires submission of a site plan for COA indicating
buffer areas and materials screening adjoining properties
            8.   New Construction or Additions.
               Unless specified elsewhere in this chapter, or unless subject to
relief under conditions set forth in §
5-4-47, Rights-of Way and Easements, residences and uses permitted in the
residential historic district shall be required to conform to the following
standards and regulations:
               a.   Certificate of Appropriateness.
               b.   Landscaping. A scale site plan indicating plant materials
and trees, buffer areas and screening, hardscape surfaces (driveways, walks and
parking), and exterior lighting must be submitted to BAR for approval.
(Am. Ord. 07-11, passed 6-11-2007; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 3-12-2012; Am. Ord.
17-09, passed 10-9-2017)
§ 5-4-71 STANDARDS FOR DILLON HISTORIC DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Criteria.
      A structure, group of structures, property, site of district or
neighborhood may be designated that of historic importance if it meets one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Historic and Cultural Importance.
         (a)   Built more than fifty (50) years ago and has significant
character, interest or value as part of the development, heritage.
         (b)   Is the site of an historic event with a significant effect upon
society.
         (c)   Exemplified the cultural, political, economic, social or
historic heritage of the community.
      (2)   Architectural, Engineering Importance.
         (a)   Portrays the environment in an era of history characterized by a
distinctive architectural style.
         (b)   Embodies those distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type or engineering specimen.
         (c)   Is the work of a designer whose individual work has
significantly influenced the development of Dillon.
         (d)   Contains elements of design, detail, materials or craftsmanship
which represent significant innovation.
      (3)   Geographical Importance.
         (a)   By being part of or related to a square, park or other
distinctive area, should be developed or preserved according to a plan based on
an historic, cultural or architectural motif.
         (b)   Owing to its unique location or singular physical characteristic
represents an established and familiar feature of the neighborhood, community.
      (4)   Archeological Importance.
         Has yielded or may be likely to yield information important in pre-
history or history.
   (B)   Classifications.
      (1)   Dillon Historic.
         An area may be designated as a "Dillon Historic Commercial or
Residential District" where it meets one (1) or more of the above criteria.
      (2)   Dillon Historic.
         An area may be designated as a "Dillon Historic Neighborhood" where it
meets one (1) or more of the above criteria and where the following two (2)
criteria apply:
         (a)   There is a sizable number of properties in the subject area
which are not considered to contribute to the architecture or historical
significance of an area; and
         (b)   The cultural values or financial resources of a significant
number of property owners in the subject area as reasonably considered by the
Dillon City Council are such that flexible standards of the Dillon Historic
Designation are appropriate. The flexible standards shall be outlined in the
guidelines.
      (3)   Notable Properties.
         Individual structures within the city limits may be designated as
"notable properties." The Dillon City Council may designate structures as
"notable properties" where it reasonably determines that those structures
embody a particularly high degree of significance in accordance with the
criteria listed above.
      (4)   Structures Built Prior to 1936.
         Any structure within the city limits built prior to 1936 and meeting
one (1) or more of the criteria above may be designated a "notable property" by
the City Council.
      (5)   National Register of Properties.
         All structures and districts listed on the National Register of
Historic Places within the city limits.
§ 5-4-72 BOARD OF ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (BAR).
   (A)   Establishment and Purpose.
      The Board of Architectural Review has been established for the specific
purpose of preservation and protection of Dillon's designated historic
districts and properties for their unique, special or desired character by
means of restrictions and conditions governing the right to erect, demolish,
remove in whole or in part, alter their exterior appearance pursuant to S.C.
Code §§ 6-29-710 and 6-29-870 and be appointed by the City Council and will
hereinafter be referred to as the BAR. The BAR shall adopt by-laws upon the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council.
Exterior appearance shall include architectural character, general composition,
and general arrangement of exterior structure, including the kind, color, and
texture of the building material and type and character of all windows, doors,
light fixtures, signs, awnings, and all appurtenant elements visible from any
street or public thoroughfare. BAR shall promote an all-encompassing historic
design concept through regulation of the public streetscape within districts.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   Requirements.
         (a)    No member may hold any other public office.
         (b)   The governing authority or authorities creating the BAR may
remove any member of the Board, which it has appointed.
         (c)   Each BAR member shall attend at least one (1) information or
educational meeting per year, pertaining to the work and functions of the BAR,
to historic preservation, or to operations of federal, state, and local
preservation programs.
      (2)   Number.
         The BAR shall consist of nine (9) members with a demonstrated
interest, competence or knowledge of historic preservation. Two (2) non-voting
consultant members shall be professionals in the discipline of architecture,
history, architectural history, planning, archeology, or related disciplines,
including urban planning, American studies, American civilization, cultural
geography, cultural anthropology, engineering, real estate, law, banking,
construction and urban streetscape design with experience in urban
arboriculture.
      (3)   Appointment Criteria.
         All Board members shall be a resident of the city or own property
within a historic district unless otherwise indicated and shall be appointed by
the City Council following any of the criteria listed within (a) through (g)
below; (h) and (i) are required:
         (a)   One (1) person representing the designated Dillon Residential
Historic District who is a resident and property owner within the residential
district.
         (b)   One (1) person representing the Dillon Downtown Historic
District who must own property in the Downtown District.
         (c)   One (1) person who owns or rents a commercial business in the
Downtown Historic District.
         (d)   One (1) person recommended by the Dillon Historic Society who is
a member and is not required to be a resident of the city or own property
within a historic district.
         (e)   One (1) person recommended by the Downtown Revitalization
Committee.
         (f)   One (1) person recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
         (g)   One (1) person representing a residential area not included in a
designated district.
         (h)   One (1) South Carolina Licensed General Contractor representing
the Dillon Downtown Historic District who is not required to be a resident of
the city or own property within a historic district.
         (i)   One (1) South Carolina Licensed Residential Builder representing
the Residential Historic District who is not required to be a resident of the
city or own property within a historic district.
      (4)   Terms.
         Board members shall serve until removed by City Council for cause. Any
vacancy on the Board shall be filled by appointment as approved by the City
Council in accordance with the above criteria. Members of the BAR shall serve
without compensation, but may be reimbursed for any expenses as approved by the
City Manager while representing the Board.
   (C)   Powers and Duties.
      (1)   Powers.
         The BAR has binding power of review involving the structures and the
districts with streetscapes designated as historically important as may be
determined by the historic district zoning ordinance and as stated.
      (2)   Education.
         The BAR shall endeavor to educate the community about their own
historic resources and preservation.
      (3)   Certified Local.
         The BAR shall assist the Code Enforcement Director in submitting the
annual report of BAR activities required by the State Historic Preservation
Office (SHPO). The annual report form will include the number of cases
reviewed, disposition of cases, new local designations, Commission
appointments, new or revised resumes, attendance records, minutes or a synopsis
of the minutes, and local preservation plans and projects.
      (4)   Disqualification.
         Any member of the BAR who has a direct or indirect interest in any
property which is the subject matter of, or is affected by decision of the BAR
shall be disqualified from participating in the discussion, decision, or
proceedings of the BAR in connection therewith.
      (5)   Amendments to the Historic Overlay Ordinance.
         (a)   The BAR from time to time shall re-evaluate the historic overlay
ordinance and make recommendations to Planning and Zoning for amendments or
additions to the ordinance.
         (b)   Planning and Zoning shall then make their recommendations to the
City Council.
   (D)   Consistent Policies.
      (1)   The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation.
         The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation are
hereby adopted. The BAR, in the exercise of its authority, shall utilize "The
Standards."
      (2)   Streetscape Guidelines and Maintenance Requirements.
         The Bar shall consult SCDOT landscape policies for recommendations
regarding landscaping, streetscape and horticultural maintenance issues.
      (3)   Design Guidelines.
         The guidelines shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for their approval and the recommendation for acceptance by the City
Council.
         (a)   Commercial. The BAR shall create "commercial design guidelines"
detailing specific exterior issues which shall cover but are not limited to
such commercial design matters as: design, signage, awnings, lighting, display
of merchandise, security devices, sidewalk encroachments, murals, other
pertinent issues and streetscape issues within historic districts such as
streetscape elements, lighting, vegetation, trees and other elements placed on
or visible from public rights-of-way or where easements have been secured.
         (b)   Residential. The BAR shall create "residential design
guidelines" detailing specific exterior issues which shall cover but are not
limited to appropriate historic design, architectural features, doors, windows,
porches, roofs, chimneys, shutters, exterior lighting, garages and
outbuildings, additions, and enclosures such as fences and gates.
(Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 5-4-73 DESIGNATION PROCESS.
   Based upon the criteria set forth in §
5-4-69, the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) shall establish a process of
continual evaluation and surveys of structures and sites within the city limits
of Dillon. Upon review of proposed designations, make subsequent
recommendations regarding designations to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for recommendation to the City Council.
   (A)   Requests.
      Requests for the establishment or modification of a Dillon Historic
Designation may originate with the Planning and Zoning Commission, City
Council, the BAR or any interested citizen or citizen group and be presented to
the BAR for consideration.
   (B)   Research.
      The BAR shall conduct preliminary research of the request to determine
eligibility under the standards set forth in §
5-4-71. The BAR may conduct informal meetings by invitation to owners of
properties to be designated individually or as a district or neighborhood, seek
advice or preservation professionals and historians, and conduct or receive any
preliminary research or studies to assist with its decision.
   (C)   Eligibility.
      After review of the information gathered in the preliminary research, the
BAR should vote on whether the area or property is eligible. If the BAR
determines the area or property is eligible to become a Dillon Historic
Designation, it shall prepare a report which will detail the boundaries of the
district or location of the property, document the history and significance of
the area, and provide photographs of the properties within the area. The report
shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for their review and a
recommendation made to City Council.
   (D)   Public Hearings.
      After the Planning and Zoning Commission holds a public hearing and makes
a recommendation the report shall be sent to City Council as a request for an
amendment of a historic overlay to the Official Zoning Map. City Council shall
hold a public meeting to consider the proposed Dillon Historic Designation. All
property owners as identified in county tax records shall be notified in
writing at least thirty (30) days in advance of this meeting by first class
mail. Property owners may appear at the public meeting before Council to voice
their approval or opposition to the designation.
   (E)   Objections.
      (1)   Individual Properties or Notable Property. Any property owner may
object in writing to BAR designating their property as individually historic or
as a notable property at the time of the first public meeting regarding the
proposed designation. Objections for individual properties or notable
properties shall be binding.
      (2)   District Properties.
         Any property owner may object in writing to the decision by the BAR to
recommend designation of his property as historic, either contributing or non-
contributing, at the first public meeting regarding designation. Followed by
the appeals process as outlined in S.C. Code § 6-29-900
§ 5-4-74 CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA).
   The owner or owner's representative with the owner's signature of approval
must sign an application for a Certificate of Appropriateness.
   The BAR shall require data and materials in the form of an application for a
"Certificate of Appropriateness" as are reasonable and necessary to determine
the nature of the application. An application shall not be considered complete
until all the required data and materials have been submitted. Nothing shall
prevent the applicant from filing additional relevant information.
   Upon receipt of a completed COA application, the Code Enforcement Director
may seek advice from the Chairman of the Board of Architectural Review and
Downtown Revitalization Coordinator concerning the nature of the application,
and is hereby authorized to immediately issue construction permits for
“Certificate of Appropriateness” (COA) applications that are in compliance with
the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances which do not involve a change in the
frame structural appearance of a building or dwelling and do not destroy
defining characteristics of the Dillon Historic District. Designations relating
to the following exterior construction, maintenance and/or repair of minor
landscaping features to include all signs within the designated Dillon Historic
Overlay District, whether temporary or permanent, in order to expedite the
permitting process for “Certificate of Appropriateness” (COA) applications:
such as, but not limited to; (a) business signs, identification signs, mobile
signs, occupancy signs, lettering signage on windows, awnings and canopies; (b)
construction of paved surfaces, driveways, sidewalks and other such exterior
features such as: (1) hardiplank or other composite materials resembling the
thickness and texture of wood; (2) replacement wood windows with original
configuration including muntin detail materials; (3) plexi-glass used for
enclosures or construction no less than one quarter (l/4) inch thickness; and
(4) wood, aluminum, or brick/block fence material enclosures or construction.
   The Board of Architectural Review (BAR) shall consider and approve the
aforementioned “Certificate of Appropriateness” (COA) application(s) which do
not involve a change in the frame structural appearance of a building or
dwelling and do not destroy defining characteristics of the Dillon Historic
District designations at the next scheduled meeting of the BAR.
   (A)   Historic Structures.
      (1)   No designated historic structure may be demolished or removed, in
whole or in part, nor may the exterior architectural character of the structure
be altered until after an application for a “Certificate of Appropriateness”
(COA) has been submitted to the BAR and approved.
      (2)   No plywood or such like construction material may be displayed in
windows and door openings of buildings within the Dillon Commercial Historic
Overlay District unless an application for a “Certificate of Appropriateness”
(COA) has been submitted to the BAR and approved.
      (3)   Vinyl Siding and Trim. All vinyl siding and trim or such like
construction material in whole or in part are hereby prohibited hereafter
within the designated Dillon Historic Overlay District. HardiPlank or other
composite materials resembling the thickness and texture of wood shall be
considered by the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) after a Certificate of
Appropriateness (COA) is submitted to the BAR for approval.
      (4)   Vinyl or Vinyl Clad Windows.
         (a)   Vinyl or vinyl clad windows to include vinyl sills and frames
shall be permitted to be installed and used in any building, structure or
accessory uses within the Dillon Historic Overlay District subject to the
provisions within divisions (b) through (d) below.
         (b)   Prior to installation, all vinyl or vinyl clad windows to
include vinyl sills and frames proposed to be installed in any building,
structure or accessory uses within the Dillon Historic Overlay District shall
be certified and installed in compliance with the latest edition of the
International Building Code and/or International Residential Code and/or
International Energy Conservation Code as adopted and amended by the South
Carolina Building Code Council and the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances as
amended.
         (c)   Applicants seeking to install vinyl or vinyl clad windows as
replacement windows to include vinyl sills and frames in any building,
structure or accessory uses within the Dillon Historic Overlay District which
do not alter or modify original window size, muntins be the same as the
original windows, compliance with egress is fulfilled in accordance with the
latest edition of the International Building Code and/or International
Residential Code and/or International Energy Conservation Code as adopted and
amended by the South Carolina Building Code Council and the City of Dillon Code
of Ordinances as amended, shall not require approval by the Board of
Architectural Review (BAR). However, prior to installation thereof, a
Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) application must be obtained from the Code
Enforcement Department, returned and completed by the applicant in its entirety
accompanied by a sample of the actual paint chip describing and identifying the
color of the proposed vinyl or vinyl clad windows to include vinyl sills and
frames to be installed for the purpose of ensuring that the exterior color and
installation of vinyl or vinyl clad windows do not destroy the integrity of the
historic building, structure, accessory uses or its environment, prior to work
beginning.
         (d)   Applicants seeking to design or install new exterior window
additions in excess of existing exterior windows and/or where no windows exist
in any building, structure or accessory uses within the Dillon Historic Overlay
District shall be considered by the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) after a
Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) is submitted to the BAR for approval,
prior to work beginning.
      (5)   Plexi-Glass Enclosures. All proposed plexi-glass used for
enclosures or construction is to be no less than one quarter (1/4) inch
thickness. Tempered glass material enclosures or construction shall be
considered by the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) after a Certificate of
Appropriateness (COA) is submitted to the BAR for approval.
      (6)   Chain Link and Vinyl Fences. All proposed chain link and vinyl
fence enclosures or construction in whole or in part are hereby prohibited
hereafter within the designated Dillon Historic Overlay District. Wood,
aluminum, or brick/block fence material enclosures or construction shall be
considered by the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) after a Certificate of
Appropriateness (COA) is submitted to the BAR for approval.
      (7)   Satellite Dishes. The new installation and use of a satellite dish
visible from the historic district rights-of-way are hereby prohibited
hereafter unless an application for a "Certificate of Appropriateness" (COA)
has been submitted to the BAR and approved.
      (8)   Flashing, Lighted or Electronic Signs. Flashing, lighted or
electronic signs are hereby prohibited hereafter within the designated Dillon
Historic Overlay District with the exception of standard appropriate size
"open" signs which may flash or be lighted and do not require a "Certificate of
Appropriateness" (COA) approval.
      (9)   Broken Windows. To preserve the integrity of the historic
structures and improve the appearance of blighted buildings, missing or broken
windows in whole or in part are hereby prohibited within the commercial
district of the designated Dillon Historic Overlay District and must be brought
into compliance with the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances. The owner of record
of such building maintained in violation of this ordinance which has missing or
broken windows, shall be ordered by the Code Enforcement Director. Twenty-one
(21) days notice in writing shall be given to the owner of the building or
premises on which such building is located, to submit a "Certificate of
Appropriateness" (COA) to the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) for approval
to bring the building into compliance with this ordinance. Any person who fails
to comply with this ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in
accordance with §
1-3-48.
      (10)   Paint Color Charts.
         (a)   Every applicant seeking to paint a building, structure or
accessory uses within the Dillon Historic Overlay District shall select a color
from the paint color chart as approved and established within this subsection.
         (b)   Applicants selecting to use paint colors approved within this
subsection do not require approval by the Board of Architectural Review,
however, a (COA) Certificate of Appropriateness application must be obtained
from the Code Enforcement Department and completed in its entirety accompanied
by a paint sample of the actual paint chip describing and identifying the paint
color to be used and shall be returned to the Code Enforcement Director prior
to work beginning.
         (c)   All painting shall be done and completed in a professional and
workmanlike manner in accordance with the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances
within three (3) months from the date of receipt on the Certificate of
Appropriateness application. The applicant may request for an extension of time
due to unforeseen hardship. Such request for extensions shall be made in
writing stating the reasons thereof. At the discretion of the Code Enforcement
Director an extension may be granted not to exceed thirty (30) days.
         (d)   Paint colors and placement shall be appropriate for the
building, structure or accessory uses relating to architectural style and
design.
         (e)   Paint should be of high quality applied to properly prepared
surfaces to provide a long lasting finish.
         (f)   All exterior surfaces, which require paint or sealing in order
to protect the underlying surface from deterioration shall be so painted or
sealed.
         (g)   All exterior surfaces, which have been painted, shall be
maintained free of peeling and flaking.
         (h)   Any exterior color changes shall not destroy the integrity of
the historic building, structure, accessory uses or its environment.
         (i)   Any and all paint colors not identified as approved colors
within this subsection shall be submitted and presented to the Board of
Architectural Review for their review and approval prior to work beginning.
         (j)   Ordinary maintenance and repair of any of the existing exterior
features of a building, structure or accessory uses within the Dillon Historic
Overlay District that do not involve a change in any of the following: design,
type of material, color, size or outward appearance shall be exempt from the
review and approval of a (COA) Certificate of Appropriateness process.
      (11)   Paint Color Chart for Signs Within the Historic Commercial
District.
         (a)   Every applicant seeking to paint a sign within the Dillon
Commercial Historic Overlay District shall select a color from the paint color
chart as approved and established within §
5-4-74(A)(10) of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances and/or §
5-4-74(A)(11).
         (b)   Applicants selecting to use paint colors approved within §
5-4-74(A)(10) of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances and §
5-4-74(A)(11) do not require approval by the Board of Architectural Review,
however, a Certificate Of Appropriateness (COA) application must be obtained
from the Code Enforcement Department and completed in its entirety accompanied
by a paint sample of the actual paint chip describing and identifying the paint
color to be used and shall be returned to the Code Enforcement Director prior
to work beginning.
         (c)   All painting shall be done and completed in a professional and
workmanlike manner in accordance with the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances
within three months from the date of receipt on the certificate of
appropriateness application. The applicant may request for an extension of time
due to unforeseen hardship. Such request for extensions shall be made in
writing stating the reasons thereof. At the discretion of the Code Enforcement
Director an extension may be granted not to exceed 30 days.
         (d)   Paint colors and placement shall be appropriate for commercial
signs relating to architectural style and design.
         (e)   Paint should be of high quality applied to properly prepared
surfaces to provide a long lasting finish.
         (f)   All exterior surfaces, which require paint or sealing in order
to protect the underlying surface from deterioration shall be so painted or
sealed.
         (g)   All exterior surfaces, which have been painted, shall be
maintained free of peeling and flaking.
         (h)   Any exterior color changes shall not destroy the integrity of
the historic building, structure, accessory uses or its environment.
         (i)   Any and all paint colors not identified as approved colors
within §
5-4-74(A)(10) of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances and §
5-4-74(A)(11) shall be submitted and presented to the Board of Architectural
Review for their review and approval prior to work beginning.
         (j)   Ordinary maintenance and repair of any of the existing exterior
features of a sign within the Dillon Historic Overlay District that do not
involve a change in any of the following: design, type of material, color, size
or outward appearance shall be exempt from the review and approval of a
Certificate Of Appropriateness (COA) process.
         (k)   Any person violating any provision of this section by not
applying for a Certificate Of Appropriateness (COA) and a permit (if required)
prior to doing work in the historic district, other than maintenance, shall be
subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days upon
conviction. Work shall immediately cease and the property shall be returned to
its original appearance as of 2002 benchmark district photos. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense until the property is
restored.
      (12)   Maintenance and Appearance Code. It is the purpose of the
provisions of this Code to provide a practical method whereby buildings or
structures, which diminish property values or detract from the appropriate
appearance of the Dillon Downtown Commercial Historic Overlay District, may be
required to be repaired. The Downtown Commercial Historic Overlay District is
deemed by the City of Dillon to require supplemental regulations because of its
special economic importance. This area is deemed to constitute an "overlay
zone" as defined in S. C. Code § 6-29-720(C). The provisions of this Code are
cumulative, and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, including the
current editions of standard codes adopted by the City of Dillon.
         (a)   Scope. The provisions of this Code shall apply to all commercial
buildings or structures whether occupied or vacant within the designated area.
The City Manager or his designee shall be responsible for carrying out the
provisions of this Article.
         (b)   Boundaries of the Dillon Historic District. The boundaries and
parcels of the Dillon Historic District shall be the same as the B-l Dillon
Commercial Historic Overlay District.
         (c)   Responsibilities of the Dillon Design Review Board. In matters
related to this Article the rules and procedures governing the approval of
repairs or work shall be the Design Guidelines and related Dillon City Code of
Ordinances as adopted by the Dillon City Council for Downtown Dillon.
         (d)   General Duties and Responsibilities of the Owner. It shall be
the duty and responsibility of the owner to ensure that buildings and
structures affected by this Article are maintained and repaired per the
following:
            (1)   The exterior of the structure is to be maintained in good
repair. In general, the term good repair shall mean that the structure(s) shall
be free from broken glass from exposed windows; failed, failing or unattached
gutter systems; failed or failing exposed wood elements that are either an
architectural feature, a structural element, or placed on the structure for
some other purpose; and/or other failed or failing plastic, metal, brick, stone
or other building materials found on the exterior of the structure(s).
            (2)   All structures and decorative elements of building fronts,
sides and rears shall be repaired or replaced in a workmanlike manner to match
as closely as possible the original materials or as approved.
            (3)   Structures at the rear of buildings, attached or unattached
to the principal structure, which are structurally deficient, shall be repaired
or demolished upon approval.
            (4)   All extraneous elements on building walls and roofs and
surrounding premises which serve no useful or aesthetic purpose, such as empty
electrical or other conduits, unused sign brackets, etc. shall be removed.
            (5)   If the building is used for storage, the contents shall be
masked from view of the public from the street right-of-way, public parking
lots, or pedestrian corridors.
            (6)   If the building is unoccupied, the owner shall cause the
building to be maintained in such a way as to prevent it from looking
abandoned. In general, it is the intent of this paragraph to cause the building
to blend in with other occupied buildings within the immediate area. In
addition, the building shall remain broom clean with all debris and other waste
removed from inside the building.
            (7)   The owner shall also be responsible for compliance with other
sections of the City Code as they relate to nuisances and the abatement of
nuisance conditions.
         (e)   Specific Duties and Responsibilities of the Owner.
            (1)   Walls. In the event that a wall of a building has become
exposed as a result of demolition of adjacent buildings, all doors, windows,
vents or other similar openings exposed by the demolition must be either
restored or closed. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or
agent causing the exposure of the wall to make required repairs and bring the
building into compliance. Additional work required and time schedule allowed
shall be the following:
               a.   The removal of any protruding or loose materials.
               b.   The owner or agent causing the exposure shall submit an
application and schedule for compliance to the City within sixty (60) days of
demolition.
            (2)   Windows. In general, all windows shall be in good repair. For
the purpose of this section, the term good repair shall mean that windows are
tight fitting and have sashes of proper size and design. In addition, sashes
with rotten wood, broken joints, or broken mullions shall be replaced. Good
repair shall also mean that exposed wood is sealed or otherwise protected and
that the window is free of broken or cracked glass. For windows that are four
(4) square feet or larger and are broken, the following rule shall apply: A
glass pane is not required to be replaced if the largest single portion of the
pane, which is free of cracks, is eighty percent (80%) or greater of the total
surface area of the glass pane.
            (3)   First-floor. Existing windows shall be maintained as windows,
complete with sills, lintels, frame and glass, unless changes are specifically
approved by the Board of Architectural Review.
            (4)   Upper floor(s). Existing windows may be closed as approved by
the Board of Architectural Review.
            (5)   Signage and display windows. The following regulations shall
apply to window advertising and/or display window space:
               a.   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of a storefront
window may be covered by advertising signs. This restriction shall not apply to
signs permanently painted on or etched into the window that serve as the
business identification sign.
               b.   The interior area of enclosed display window space(s) shall
be maintained in a manner free of dirt, debris and clutter. If the display
window space is not enclosed, the area measured from the bottom of the window
to twenty-four (24) inches inside the building shall be considered the display
window space.
               c.   Temporary signage shall not be placed on the exterior of
any building or structure. All temporary signage must be on the inside of the
window and shall be considered when calculating the twenty-five percent (25%)
allowance for window signage. For the purpose of this section temporary signage
shall be defined by the City of Dillon Zoning Regulations and/or the Design
Guidelines.
               d.   All other signage shall be in conformity with the City of
Dillon Zoning Regulations and/or the Design Guidelines.
            (6)   Allowable exceptions. The following exceptions for window
treatments are available if approved by the Board of Architectural Review.
               a.   Upper story windows:
                  1.   Use of inoperable glass inserts.
                  2.   Use of painted wooden shutters.
                  3.   Use of public art.
                  4.   Other options as approved.
               b.   Alley windows:
                  1.   Use of painted shutters.
                  2.   Other options as approved.
               c.   Back streets:
                  1.   Use of painted wooden shutters.
                  2.   Other options as approved.
            (7)   Protection of exterior surfaces and facades. All exterior
surfaces which require painting or sealing to protect the underlying surface(s)
from deterioration shall be so painted or sealed. As a matter of regulation,
when twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the aggregate exterior surface of any
wall face has peeling or flaking paint the entire area shall be repaired. An
exception to this regulation may be granted by the City where the owner or
owner representative, as a matter or design maintains the underlying paint,
advertising sign or art work in a satisfactory manner.
            (8)   Advertising structures, signs, and awnings. All advertising
structures and awnings and their accompanying supporting members shall be
maintained in good repair and shall be in compliance with the development codes
for the City of Dillon. Non-complying signs, billboards, marquees, or awnings
shall, together with their supporting members, be removed. It is the intent of
this section, to cause the removal of all abandon signs or like structures
within the designated Dillon Commercial Historic Overlay District.
         For awnings or marquees which are made of cloth, plastic or similar
material, such as awnings, or marquees shall be maintained so as not to show
evidence of excessive tearing, ripping, and unsightly conditions. For the
purpose of this section, excessive tearing shall be defined as a tear in excess
of six (6) inches in length. In the event that the awning covering has been
removed, the supporting members may remain in place for a period not to exceed
four (4) months if the intent is to replace the covering.
            (9)   Cornices. All cornices shall be structurally sound and
maintained/protected. Rotten or weakened portions shall be removed and/or
replaced to match as close as possible the original patterns as approved by the
Board of Architectural Review.
            (10)   Downspouts. Sheet metal gutters and downspouts shall be
functional, replaced or repaired as necessary and shall be properly located and
securely installed.
         (f)   Notice of violation and penalties. Any violation of the
provisions of this Article is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be
corrected or abated as required by this Article. Further, violation(s) of this
Article shall be subject to the provisions of the Dillon City Code of
Ordinances governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the city for any
costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying said nuisance. When an owner
is found to be in violation of this Article, the City may serve upon such
person a written notice stating the name of the violation.
      Within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the notice of
violation, the owner shall submit to the City a plan for the satisfactory
correction of the violation which shall include acceptable milestones and other
remedies to abate the violation. Within two weeks of submittal, the City shall
review the correction plan and respond in writing to the owner of its
acceptance, rejection, or recommended modification(s) to the plan.
      Upon acceptance of the plan by the City, the owner shall abate the public
nuisance in a manner consistent with the approved plan. The City's duly
appointed official may amend the plan, upon a written request by the owner or
the owner's representative. All amendments shall be in writing and upon
acceptance by the City shall be made part of the accepted correction plan. A
phased schedule approach toward compliance may be acceptable. However, if a
phased schedule approach is proposed it shall not exceed six (6) months from
the date of acceptance by the City.
   (B)   New Structures.
      No new structures may be erected within a designated historic district or
neighborhood until after a COA is submitted to the BAR and approved and city
permits issued.
   (C)   Built Prior to 1936.
      No inventoried structure, built prior to 1936, and within the city limits
may be demolished or removed in whole or in part until after a COA from the BAR
is approved or the period of postponement in the case of application for
partial or total demolition provided for in §
5-4-101 (BAR By-Laws) has expired.
   (D)   Signage, Awnings and Canopies.
      A COA is required for permanent signage, awnings, canopies and the design
and non-changeable components of the portable signs such as menu boards or
sales easels.
   (E)   Public Rights-of-Way and Easements.
      A COA is required for streetscapes, streetscape elements, vegetation,
light fixtures, other elements or items placed on public rights of way or
property easements, whether temporary or permanent within a designated historic
district.
   (F)   Historic District Tree Replacement.
      (1)   No tree(s) within a residential historic district may be removed,
in whole or in part until after an application for a “Certificate of
Appropriateness” (COA) has been submitted to the Board of Architectural Review
(BAR) and approved.
      (2)   In order to maintain the appearance of the residential historic
district, the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) recommends the replacement of
a tree to be removed with a similar tree (i.e. hardwood with hardwood) either
on private or public property, or if appropriate, on the Department of
Transportation (DOT) right-of-way under the city’s encroachment permit within
the residential historical district.
      (3)   Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) requests for removal of any
tree more than 2.5 inches cal. dbh (diameter at breast height) or multi-stem of
more than ten (10) feet tall will require:
         (a)   An appropriate reason for removal. Examples: determined
hazardous by city certified arborist;
         (b)   A photograph of the yard showing which tree(s) are to be
removed;
         (c)   A scaled landscape plan indicating where replacement tree(s) are
to be located. The new tree does not have to be planted in the same location as
the one to be removed;
         (d)   Tree(s) may be selected from the South Carolina Forestry Urban
Tree Guide and at maturity must be equal to the tree removed. Example: if a
large tree is to be removed, a large maturing tree must be planted, with the
exception of trees under power lines. The Urban Guide has the trees listed by
height. Tree species must be listed on the Certificate of Appropriateness
(COA);
         (e)   New tree(s) must be at a minimum of 2.5 inches caliper dbh or if
container grown - twenty (20) gallon or multi-stem of a minimum of ten (10)
feet tall;
         (f)   Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) may be approved at any time
of the year, however replacements are to be planted at the earliest winter
season from December to February. Failure to replace trees(s) following an
approved removal shall be subject to a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars
($200) and/or by imprisonment not exceeding thirty (30) days until replacement
is completed. Each day any violation of any provision(s) of this section shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense; and
         (g)   If the owner requests the tree replacement to be placed on the
South Carolina Department of Transportation (DOT) right-of-way, the city will
choose the appropriate species, purchase the tree, plant and maintain it. The
owner is responsible for the cost of the tree which will vary with species. The
estimated cost is between One hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) up to two
hundred dollars ($200).
   (G)   Violations.
      Any person violating any provision of this chapter by not applying for a
"Certificate of Appropriateness" (COA) and a permit (if required) prior to
doing work in the historic district, other than maintenance, shall be subject
to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500) or imprisonment for not more
than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Work shall immediately cease and the
property shall be returned to its original appearance as of 2002 benchmark
district photos. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense
until the property is restored.
(Am. Ord. 06-19, passed 11-13-2006; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord.
10-01, passed 3-8-2010; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 11-11,
passed 7-11-2011; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 4-19-2012; Am. Ord. 12-04, passed 4-9-
2012; Am. Ord. 14-01, passed 3-10-2014; Am. Ord. 17- 07, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 5-4-75 EXCLUSIONS FROM CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA).
   (A)   Maintenance and Repair.
      Ordinary maintenance and repair of any of the existing exterior features
of a structure that do not involve a change in any of the following: design,
type of material, color, size or outward appearance shall be exempt from the
review and approval.
   (B)   Temporary Signage.
      A COA is not required for temporary signs: (e.g. going out of business
signs), standard auxiliary signs (e.g. "open," "welcome," hours of operation,
credit card decal signs), and components of portable signs, which change
regularly (e.g. menu boards on easels). Nothing in this article shall be
construed to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration or demolition
of any elements of a structure that authorized municipal officers certify as
required for public safety.
   (C)   Maintenance and Replacement of Streetscape Elements and Vegetation.
      COA is not required for maintenance and replacement of vegetation. Change
of materials or visual appearance, such as pruning require a COA.
   (D)   ADA Handicapped Ramps.
      A Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) is not required for ADA
handicapped ramps provided that the handicap ramp does not change the facade or
structure of the building and does not destroy defining characteristics.
   (E)   Hazardous Trees Emergency Abatement.
      No tree(s) within a residential or commercial historic district may be
removed, in whole or in part until after an application for a "Certificate of
Appropriateness" (COA) has been submitted to the Board of Architectural Review
and approved with the exception of historic trees that have been determined
emergency hazardous by the City of Dillon Certified Arborist due to the forces
of nature (i.e. struck by lightning, high winds, etc.) and pose an immediate
emergency threat to human life or safety of the public. The dangerous hazardous
trees shall be removed by the owner in accordance with the advice of the City
of Dillon Certified Arborist. Within three (3) days after the emergency
incident, the Code Enforcement Director shall submit a "Certificate of
Appropriateness" (COA) to the Board of Architectural Review along with a
photograph of the yard showing which tree(s) are to be removed for the purpose
of information and describing the necessary requirements ordering the repairs
and/or abatement of the emergency unsafe hazard conditions.
   (F)   Unsafe Structure or Building Emergency Abatement.
      No structure or building within a residential or commercial historic
district may be demolished, removed, in whole or in part, nor may the exterior
architectural character of the structure be altered until after an application
for a "Certificate of Appropriateness" (COA) has been submitted to the Board of
Architectural Review and approved with the exception of the following
(emergencies); any building, structure or portion thereof that has been
determined an immediate emergency hazard and threat to the public safety as
determined by the City of Dillon Building Inspector and Code Enforcement
Director due to the forces of nature (i.e. struck by lightning, high winds,
fire hazard, or otherwise poses an immediate emergency threat and danger to
human life). The building shall be ordered repaired immediately by the owner in
accordance with the latest edition of the International Building and
Residential Codes, National Electrical Codes and all related mandatory codes as
amended and approved by the South Carolina Building Codes Council in order to
abate the emergency unsafe condition. Within three (3) days after the emergency
incident. The Code Enforcement Director shall submit a "Certificate of
Appropriateness" (COA) to the Board of Architectural Review along with a
photograph of the building or structure in question for the purpose of
information describing the necessary requirements ordering the repairs and/or
abatement of the emergency unsafe hazard conditions.
(Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 5-4-76 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   When a COA and a building permit are issued, the building official or other
designated staff member will conduct timely inspections of the alteration,
construction or demolition as approved by the COA. The property owner shall be
required to have a copy of the COA and support materials and the building
permit on the premises for inspection. If alterations, construction and/or
demolition are noted which are not in accordance with the COA or violate other
ordinances, this information shall be immediately transmitted to the Code
Enforcement Director, who shall also notify the Chairman of the BAR. If the
building official finds that the alteration, construction or demolition is not
in accordance with or is in violation of the COA, he shall issue a "stop work
order" and notify the recipient of the COA and the Code Enforcement Director,
in writing, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it. If corrective action is not taken to comply with the
COA, persons in violations shall be subject to penalties as described in the
Zoning Ordinance of the City of Dillon.
§ 5-4-77 CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   (A)   Denial of COA.
      Upon denial of a COA, an application for a Certificate of Economic
Hardship may be made on a form approved by the BAR and provided by the Code
Enforcement Director.
   (B)   Determination Process.
      The BAR shall schedule a public hearing concerning the application and
provide notice in the same manner as §
5-4-79(E). Any person may testify at the hearing concerning economic hardship
in the same manner as §
5-4-80. The BAR may solicit expert testimony or require that the applicant make
submissions concerning any or all of the following information before it makes
a determination on the application:
      (1)   Estimate of the cost of the proposed construction, alteration,
demolition or removal and an estimate of any additional cost that would be
incurred to comply with the recommendations of the BAR for changes necessary
for the issuance of a COA.
      (2)   A report from a licensed engineer or architect with experience in
rehabilitation as to the structural soundness of any structures on the property
and their suitability for rehabilitation.
      (3)   Estimated market value of the property in its current condition;
after completion of the proposed construction, alteration, demolition or
removal: after any changes recommended by the BAR; and in the case of proposed
demolition, after renovation of existing property for continued use.
      (4)   In the case of proposed demolition, an estimate from an architect,
developer, real estate consultant, appraiser, or other real estate professional
experiences in rehabilitation as to the economic feasibility of rehabilitation
or reuse of the existing structure on the property.
      (5)   Amount paid for the property, the date of purchase, and the party
from whom purchased, including the description of the relationship, if any to
the owner of record or applicant and the person from whom the property was
purchased, and any terms of financing between the seller and buyer.
      (6)   If property is income producing, the annual gross income from the
property for the previous two (2) years: itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two years; depreciation deduction and annual cash
flow before and after debt service, if any during the same period.
      (7)   Remaining balance on any mortgage or other financing secured by the
property owner and annual debt service, if any, for the previous two (2) years.
      (8)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the
owner or applicant in connection with the purchase, financing, or ownership of
the property.
      (9)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked, and
offers received, if any, in the last two (2) years.
      (10)   Assessed value of the property according to the two (2) most
recent assessments.
      (11)   Real estate taxes for the past two (2) years.
      (12)   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for profit or not-for-profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other.
      (13)   Any other information, including the income tax bracket of the
owner, applicant or principal investors of the property considered necessary by
the BAR to make a determination as to whether the property does yield or may
yield a reasonable return to the owners.
(Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 5-4-78 DENIALS OF COA AND APPEALS.
   Upon disapproval of the plans, the BAR shall state its reasons for doing so
and transmit a dated record of such action and reasons in writing to the
applicant. In addition to stating the reasons for denial, the BAR may also make
general or specific recommendations in order for the application to be
approved. The applicant may then make modifications to the plans and resubmit
the application. After receiving denial of a COA, any applicant has the right
to appeal the BAR's decision as provided herein.
§ 5-4-79 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Forms of Appeal.
      (1)   Appeals from administrative decisions regarding an issue under
BAR's purview shall be appealed to the BAR. Certificates of hardship shall be
filed on forms approved by the BAR provided by the Code Enforcement Director.
The BAR may require additional information if deemed necessary to make a
determination. The failure to submit adequate information may be grounds for
dismissal. An application filed by an agent shall be accompanied by written
designation of the agent signed by the applicant or party in interest.
      (2)   Appeals from BAR decisions shall follow procedures outlined in S.C.
Code § 6-29-900.
   (B)   Time of Appeal.
      An appeal from a BAR decision must be filed within fifteen (15) days
after the recorded date of notice of the decision. The appeal must be filed
with the Code Enforcement Director who shall then notify the Chairman of the
BAR.
   (C)   Calendar.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall mark the date of receipt of appeals
and applications for variances and place them on the hearing calendar in the
order in which received. Appeals shall be heard in the order on the calendar
unless otherwise set by the BAR for good cause shown.
   (D)   Withdrawal of Appeal.
      Any appeal or application may be withdrawn by written notice filed with
the Code Enforcement Director prior to the action of the BAR. An appeal that is
withdrawn may not be refiled after the fifteen (15) day time for appeal has
expired. Withdrawn applications for variances may be refiled after six (6)
months and shall be placed on the calendar according to the date refiled.
   (E)   Continuances.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall publish the hearing of the BAR in a
local newspaper and post on or adjacent to the property affected at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. The notice shall contain a description
of each matter to be heard and identify the applicant and property affected.
§ 5-4-80 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appearances.
      The applicant or any party in interest may appeal in person or by agent
or attorney. The BAR may postpone or proceed to dispose of the matter on the
records before it in the absence of an appearance on behalf of an applicant.
   (B)   Witness.
      Parties in interest may present testimony under oath. Witnesses may be
compelled to attend by subpoena requested at least ten (10) days prior to a
hearing and signed by the chairman. The BAR may call its own witness when
deemed appropriate.
   (C)   Cross-Examination.
      No party shall have the right to cross-examine witnesses; however, the
opportunity to examine opposing witnesses may be freely extended when conducted
in an orderly manner. Intimidation of witnesses will not be allowed.
   (D)   Evidence.
      Relevant documents, photographs, maps, plans, drawings, etc. will be
received in the record without authentication in the form of legible copies.
Relevant testimony that is not cumulative or hearsay will be received. The
Chairman will rule on all evidentiary matters. Evidence may be placed in the
record with an objection noted.
   (E)   Conduct of Hearing.
      Conduct of Hearing: The normal order of hearing, subject to modification
by the Chairman, shall be:
      (1)   Statement of matter to be heard ( Chairman or secretary).
      (2)   Presentation by applicant (five (5) minute limit).
      (3)   Presentation by official appealed (five (5) minute limit).
      (4)   Presentation by opponents (five (5) minute limit).
      (5)   Rebuttal by applicant (three (3) minute limit).
      (6)   Un-sworn public comment when appropriate.
      (7)   The BAR may question participants at any point in the hearing.
      (8)   Matters in which additional time is granted may be moved to the end
of the agenda.
   (F)   Disposition.
      The BAR may deliberate and make a final disposition of the matter by
majority vote of the members present at the hearing and qualified to vote;
provided that not less than a quorum are qualified to vote. The vote may be
taken at the same or subsequent meeting. A member may not vote on a matter the
member has not heard. Deliberations shall be conducted and votes taken in
public.
   (G)   Form of Order.
      Any order issued disposing of a matter by granting or denying relief with
such conditions as may be deemed necessary; or affirming, modifying, or
reversing an administrative decision. A matter may be dismissed for lack of
jurisdiction or prosecution. Findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be
separately stated in an order.
   (H)   Service of Order.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall deliver a copy of an order to each
party in interest by certified mail immediately upon execution of the order by
the Chairman.
   (I)   Rehearing.
      The BAR may grant a rehearing of an applicant which has been dismissed or
denied upon written request filed with the Code Enforcement Director within
fifteen (15) days after delivery or the order accompanied by new evidence which
could not reasonably have been presented at the hearing, or evidence of a
clerical error or mutual mistake of fact affecting the outcome.
§ 5-4-81 APPEAL FROM BAR TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   A person who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the BAR or
any officer, or agent of the appropriate governing authority may appeal from
any decision of the BAR to the circuit court in and for the county by filing
with the clerk of court a petition in writing setting forth plainly, fully, and
distinctly why the decision is contrary to law. The appeal must be filed within
thirty (30) days after the affected party receives actual notice of the
decision of the BAR.
§ 5-4-82 CONTEMPT AND PENALTY.
   In case of contempt by a party, witness, or other person before the BAR, the
BAR may certify the fact to the circuit court of the county in which the
contempt occurs and the judge of the court, in open court or in chambers, after
hearing, may impose a penalty as authorized by law.
§ 5-4-83 NOTICE OF APPEAL, TRANSCRIPT AND SUPERSEDEAS.
   (A)   Upon filing of the appeal, the clerk of the circuit court shall give
immediate notice of it to the Code Enforcement Director and within thirty (30)
days from the time of the notice the BAR shall file with the clerk a duly
certified copy of the proceedings, including a transcript of the evidence heard
before it, if any, and the decision of the BAR including its findings of fact
and conclusions.
   (B)   The filing of an appeal in the circuit court from any decision of the
BAR does not ipso facto act as a supersedeas, but the judge of the circuit
court may in his discretion grant a supersedeas upon such terms and conditions
as may seem reasonable and proper.
§ 5-4-84 DETERMINATION OF APPEAL AND COSTS.
   At the next term of the circuit court or in chambers upon ten (10) days
notice to the parties, the resident presiding judge of the circuit court of the
county shall proceed to hear and pass upon the appeal on the certified record
of the BAR proceedings. The findings of fact by the BAR are final and
conclusive on the hearing of the appeal, and the court may not take additional
evidence. In the event the judge determines that the certified record is
insufficient for review, the matter must be remanded to the BAR for rehearing.
In determining the questions presented by the appeal, the court shall determine
only whether the decision of the BAR is correct as a matter of law. In the
event that the decision of the BAR is reversed by the circuit court, the BAR
must be charged with the costs and the governing authority that established the
BAR must pay them.
§ 5-4-85 APPEAL TO SUPREME COURT.
   A party in interest who is aggrieved by the judgment rendered by the circuit
court upon the appeal may appeal in the manner provided by the South Carolina
Appellate Court Rules.
§ 5-4-86 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   When the regulations made under authority of this chapter require a greater
width or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces, or require a lower height
of building or smaller number of stories, or require a greater percentage of
lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other more restrictive standards than are
required in or under another statute, or local ordinance or regulation, the
regulations made under authority of this chapter govern. When the provisions of
another statute require more restrictive standards than are required by the
regulations made under authority of this chapter, the provisions of that
statute govern.
BOARD OF ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW
BY-LAWS
ORGANIZATION
§ 5-4-87 BY-LAWS.
   These By-Laws are adopted pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 6-29-710 and 6-29-870 for
the City of Dillon Board of Architectural Review appointed by the City Council
and will hereinafter be referred to as the BAR.
§ 5-4-88 PURPOSE.
   BAR has the right by means of restriction and conditions governing the right
to erect, demolish, remove in whole or in part, or alter the exterior
appearance of all buildings or structures within the areas designated as Dillon
Historic Districts, Dillon Historic Neighborhoods, Dillon Notable Properties
and properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places within the
city limits.
§ 5-4-89 ADOPTION AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   These bylaws were adopted by a vote of a majority of the members of
the Board of Architectural Review (BAR) at a regular meeting on March 4, 2002.
   (B)   These bylaws may be amended at any regular meeting of the BAR by a
majority vote of the members of the Board at least seven (7) days after the
written amendment is delivered to all members.
§ 5-4-90 OFFICERS.
   The officers of the BAR shall be a Chairman and Vice-Chairman elected at the
beginning of the calendar year for a one (1) year term or until he is re-
elected or his successor is elected and qualified. The BAR shall appoint a
Board member as secretary or a member of the city staff may fill the position.
Officers may be removed from office upon majority vote, but shall remain on the
Board. A new officer may then be elected to fill the un-expired term.
   (A)   Chairman shall be a voting member of the Board and shall:
      (1)   Call meetings of the BAR;
      (2)   Preside at meetings and hearings;
      (3)   Act as spokesperson for the BAR;
      (4)   Sign documents for the BAR;
      (5)   Have orders of the BAR served on parties; and
      (6)   Perform other duties approved by the BAR.
   (B)   Vice-Chairman shall exercise the duties of the Chairman in the
absence, disability or disqualification of the Chairman. In the absence of the
Chairman and Vice-Chairman, the members present shall elect an Acting Chairman.
   (C)   Secretary shall:
      (1)   Provide and publish notice of appeals and meetings;
      (2)   Assist the Chairman in preparation of the agenda;
      (3)   Minutes. Record all meetings and hearings of the BAR on tape, which
shall be preserved until final action is taken on all matters presented.
Minutes shall be prepared for each meeting for approval by the Board at the
next regular meeting. The vote of each member upon a question shall be recorded
and if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact;
      (4)   Maintain BAR minutes as public records filed with the city;
      (5)   Serve BAR decisions on parties;
      (6)   Attend to BAR correspondence; and
      (7)   Perform other duties normally carried out by a secretary.
§ 5-4-91 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Historic Research.
      Shall consist of not less than five (5) members, chaired by a member of
the BAR. Members may be from the community and may be replaced as necessary. It
is the function of this Committee to continually work toward identification of
structures, sites, properties, districts and neighborhoods within the City of
Dillon and to make recommendations for designation and preservation.
      (1)   City Structures prior to 1936 Inventory.
      (2)   National Register Nominations.
      (3)   Surveys.
   (B)   Minor Project.
      A Minor Projects Committee may be appointed by the Chairman from the BAR
members. It shall consist of three (3) Board members. Members shall rotate one
(1) year terms on this Committee. It is the function of this Committee to
determine appropriateness of smaller projects such as, but not limited to,
signage, fencing, etc.
   (C)   Additional Committees.
      The Chairman, as needed, from BAR members or community at large, may
appoint committees to assist in meeting goals of education, preservation and
recognition of historic designations. The Chairman of each appointed Committee
must be a member of the BAR.
§ 5-4-92 PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANTS.
   The City Council, upon recommendations from the BAR, shall appoint
professional consultants. A consultant is not a voting member of the Board. Any
costs incurred for consultations must be authorized by the City Manager and
paid for by the City Council.
   (A)   Architectural.
      The City Council shall appoint an architect, consultant or individual
with demonstrated architectural or historic preservation expertise to serve as
a professional advisor to the BAR.
   (B)   Streetscape.
      The City Council shall appoint a landscape architect, consultant or
individual with demonstrated expertise in the design, selection, pruning and
maintenance of city streetscape horticulture and trees. The consultant shall
serve to coordinate streetscape and landscape specifications for the
enhancement of historic districts.
§ 5-4-93 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the BAR shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed
for any expenses as approved by the City Manager while representing the Board.
MEETINGS
§ 5-4-94 TIME AND PLACE.
   An annual schedule of regular meetings shall be adopted, published and
posted at__________. The City Complex in December of each year. Special
meetings may be called by the Chairman upon twenty-four (24) hours notice,
posted and delivered to all members and local news media. Meetings shall be
held at the place stated in the notices, and shall be open to the public.
§ 5-4-95 AGENDA.
   A written agenda shall be furnished by the secretary to each member of the
BAR and the news media, and shall be posted at least five (5) days prior to
each regular meeting, and at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to a special
meeting. Items may be removed from the agenda or postponed at a meeting by a
majority vote.
§ 5-4-96 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the BAR shall constitute a quorum. A quorum
shall be present before any business is conducted other than rescheduling the
meeting.
§ 5-4-97 ATTENDANCE.
   The Code Enforcement Director and City Council shall be advised in writing
by the secretary of the BAR should any of the members miss three (3)
consecutive meetings or more than one-third (1/3) of the regularly scheduled
meetings in any one (1) calendar year.
§ 5-4-98 RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of meetings except as
otherwise provided by these Rules of Procedure.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
§ 5-4-99 PRE-APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Informal Review.
      Prior to the preparation of working drawings and specifications or
calling for proposals or bids, applicants may prepare preliminary scale
drawings and outline specifications, including color samples, overall
dimensions for review and an informal discussion with the BAR. The purpose of
this informal review is to acquaint the applicant with the standards of
appropriateness of design that are required.
   (B)   Process.
      The applicant shall request a pre-application review from the Code
Enforcement Director who will contact the Chairman of the BAR. The Chairman
shall call a special meeting.
§ 5-4-100 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Forms and submission.
      (1)   Forms approved by the BAR are to be obtained from the Code
Enforcement Director.
      (2)   Requirements: COA application completely filled out including
support materials and any other information required in determining
appropriateness. All support materials must be labeled with the applicant's
name. Support materials include the following:
         (a)   Plans, exterior elevations, drawings drawn to scale with
sufficient detail as related to exterior appearances.
         (b)   New construction applications require drawings signed by an
architect or draftsman with a plot plan or site layout.
         (c)   Signage and awning applications require a rendering drawn to
scale indicating measurements, materials, color and proposed placement on
structure.
         (d)   Color samples and drawing indicating placement.
         (e)   Material and texture samples with drawing indicating placement.
         (f)   Photographs.
            1.   Repair, alterations or additions applications require legible
photographs of the existing facade and surrounding structures.
            2.   New construction applications require site and adjoining
structure photographs.
            3.   Demolition applications require photographs of all sides of
the building and immediate surrounding structures.
      (3)   Two (2) complete applications, which must include all support
materials, are to be submitted to the Code Enforcement Director and dated upon
receipt. The Code Enforcement Director shall notify the Chairman of the BAR
that there is/are COA applications to be reviewed at the next scheduled
meeting.
   (B)   Timeline.
      Applications and support materials must be received fifteen (15) days
prior to a regularly scheduled meeting date of the BAR.
§ 5-4-101 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon approval, both applications shall be stamped with an official COA
"Approved" seal and signed and dated by the BAR Chairman. One (1) complete set
is permanently filed with the Code Enforcement Director and one (1) complete
set returned to the applicant. A written report is sent to the Code Enforcement
Director who will issue a COA permit to the applicant. If, the BAR shall fail
to take action upon any case within forty-five (45) days after the receipt of
application for permit, the application shall be deemed to be approved, except
where written agreement has been made for an extension of the time limit.
   (B)   When a COA has been issued, building officials shall enforce the
permit as stated. Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the
construction, reconstruction, alteration or demolition of any elements of a
structure the authorized municipal officers certify as required for public
safety.
§ 5-4-102 DENIALS.
   Upon denial, the BAR shall state its reasons and make general or specific
recommendations in writing in order for the application to be approved. One (1)
copy shall be permanently filed with the Code Enforcement Director and the
other sent to the applicant. The applicant may then make modifications to the
plans and resubmit the application. After receiving denial of a COA, any
applicant has the right to appeal the BAR's decision as provided S.C. Code § 6-
29-900.
INTERSTATE HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 5-4-103 B-5 INTERSTATE HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   This district is designed to provide for the functional grouping and
development of commercial land uses along interstates which are primarily
oriented toward customers traveling by automobile and to ensure the maintenance
of an attractive physical environment while satisfying the needs of sign users
for adequate identification, communication, and advertising.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004)
5-4-103-1   Permitted Uses.
Bingo parlors
Building material suppliers, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and
electrical sales and service
Clubs, lodges, civic, fraternal, social, or similar non-profit organizations
Commercial horticulture or agriculture (excluding farm animals)
Convenience stores
Garages and auto repair facilities
Government buildings or facilities
Horticultural nurseries and greenhouses
Mini-warehouses
Offices for commercial, personal, medical, legal and other services
Parking lots, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-103-4
Printing plants for newspapers and other printers
Public utility substations and facilities, public utility easements
Recreational vehicle parks, in association with a hotel or motel, and subject
to the provisions of §
5-4-103-11
Retail trade involving the sale of merchandise on premises, including food
stores, retail stores, automobile dealers, service stations, apparel and
accessories, eating and drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail
sale of prepared food and drinks which may also serve alcoholic beverages as a
subordinate to meals for on-premises consumption (but excluding alcoholic
drinking establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic
drinks, such as night clubs, saloons, taverns, wine bars, beer garden drinking
places, beer parlor tap rooms, beer taverns, bottle club drinking places,
cabarets, cocktail lounges, discotheque alcoholic beverages, tap room drinking
places and alcoholic beverage bar drinking places primarily providing services
such as beer, ale, wine, whisky and liquor for on-premises consumption.)
Sales lots for manufactured homes, farm machinery, truck trailers, boats and
campers, and other equipment requiring outdoor storage
Services to individuals and businesses, including personal services, social
services, business supplies and services, amusement, entertainment, health
services, auto washing facilities, repair services, and rental services, (but
excluding establishments primarily engaged in internet sweepstakes)
Shopping centers, containing uses permitted within §
5-4-103-1 (see Dillon Land Development Regulations for development standards)
Signs, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-103-2
Telephone, telegraph, radio, and television services, but excluding
communications towers
Temporary uses, in accordance with the provisions of §
5-4-103-3
Veterinary services and animal shelters
 
      (A)   Definitions.
         ALCOHOLIC DRINKING PLACE means an establishment that is primarily
devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests on the
premises, deriving fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of
alcohol and in which the serving of meals is only incidental to the consumption
of such beverages.
         INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES ESTABLISHMENT means an establishment where
customers are primarily devoted to buy time online and play video “sweepstakes”
games for cash prizes or purchase internet time that allows the user to receive
points or credits that are then used to play, in many instances, casino-like
computer games to potentially win more points redeemable for cash and/or where
customers are primarily devoted to giving donation for a product or other thing
of value (i.e., phone card, internet time), which credits the customer with
free points or other measurable units that may be risked by the customer for an
opportunity to win money.
         MEALS means an assortment of various prepared foods which shall be
available to guests on the licensed premises during normal mealtimes which
occur when the licensed business establishment is open to the public.
Sandwiches, boiled eggs, sausages and other snacks prepared off the licensed
premises but sold thereon, shall not constitute a meal. The business must have
a menu or a posted listing of available meals. Hot meals must be prepared at
least once each day the business is open for business.
         PRIMARILY means for the most part of a business activity engaged in by
a business establishment.
         RESTAURANT means an establishment that is primarily devoted to the
serving of food and drinks for consumption by guests on the premises, deriving
fifty percent (50%) of their gross revenue from the sale of food and drinks in
which the serving of alcoholic drinks is only incidental to the consumption of
such meals. The business must have a Class A restaurant license from the
Department of Health and Environmental Control and must have a kitchen that is
used solely for the preparation, serving and disposal of solid foods that make
up meals to include seating for not less than forty (40) persons simultaneously
at tables for the service of meals.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004; Am. Ord. 07-05, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 11-16,
passed 12-12-2011; Am. Ord. 16-14, passed 12-12-2016)
5-4-103-2   Sign Standards.
      (A)   Permit. A permit shall be secured for the establishment, major
alteration, or moving of any sign two (2) square feet or more in area, except
for temporary signs.
      (B)   Required Sign. Each principal building shall have posted on the
front exterior the proper street address, with numerals a minimum of three (3)
inches in height.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited within the B-
5 District.:
         (1)   Signs which imitate an official sign or signal or which contain
the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words or
characters which might mislead or confuse the driver of a vehicle.
         (2)   Signs which are of a size, location, movement, content,
coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed to
be a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign
or signal or which obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road
intersection.
         (3)   All parts of signs which advertise an activity, business,
product, or service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which
the sign is located; except where a succeeding owner or lessee agrees to
maintain the signs as provided in this ordinance.
         (4)   Signs which are pasted or attached to utility poles, trees,
fences, or other signs.
         (5)   Signs which swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of
wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment, except for
flags, banners and pennants.
         (6)   Signs which display intermittent or flashing illumination.
         (7)   Signs which extend above the roof of any building.
         (8)   Prohibited Signs on Rights-of-way. Political signs, mobile
signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants located in the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets, roads and/or Interstate (I-95) within the
corporate limits of Dillon are prohibited unless approval to erect or construct
such signs has been permitted by the South Carolina Department of
Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
         (9)   Violation.
            (a)   Any person violating any provision of §
5-4-103-2(C)(8) by erecting, constructing or maintaining political signs,
mobile signs, temporary signs, banners or pennants in the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets, roads and/or Interstate (I-95) within the
corporate limits of Dillon without obtaining approval from the South Carolina
Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon conviction. Each day of
violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
            (b)   In addition to the fine hereinabove provided, the city may
remove the prohibited signs, banners or pennants from the public rights-of-way
or private easements of streets and roads within the city limits. Removal of
prohibited signs, banners or pennants by the city shall not relieve the
offender from being subject to a misdemeanor for violation of this ordinance.
      (D)   Illumination. Signs illuminated by direct lighting shall have such
lighting shielded so that no direct light will shine on abutting properties or
in the normal line of vision of the public using the streets or sidewalks.
      (E)   Maintenance. The person, firm, or corporation owning or using the
sign shall be responsible for maintaining the sign in a structurally sound
condition and for keeping the area surrounding the base of the sign clear of
trash and debris.
      (F)   Removal of Signs. The removal of any sign erected or maintained in
violation of this ordinance or any sign which has been abandoned, destroyed,
vandalized or deteriorated and is no longer correctly direct or exhort any
person, advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product, or activity
conducted or product available to include signs which have fallen into
disrepair (dilapidated), not properly maintained, insecure or otherwise
structurally unsound, have defective parts in the support, guys and/or anchors
or which are unable to meet minimum safety requirements of the latest adopted
City Building Codes and/or Electrical Code shall be ordered by the Code
Enforcement Director. Ten (10) days notice in writing shall be given to the
owner of such sign, or of the building or premises on which such sign is
located, to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this ordinance.
Upon failure to remove the sign, the City of Dillon may remove the sign any
costs of removal incurred by the city may be collected in a manner prescribed
by law.
      (G)   Nonconforming Signs. Nonconforming signs must be maintained subject
to the following restrictions and provisions of law and of these rules relating
to outdoor advertising:
         (1)   No maintenance may occur which will lengthen the life of the
device.
         (2)   There must be existing property rights in the sign.
         (3)   The right to continue a nonconforming sign is confined to the
permitted sign owner or his transferee.
         (4)   In the event a nonconforming device is partially destroyed by
wind or other natural forces including tornadoes, hurricanes, or other
catastrophic occurrences, The South Carolina Department of Transportation must
determine whether to allow the sign to be rebuilt.
         (5)   A nonconforming sign which is destroyed cannot be rebuilt, and
the debris from the destroyed sign shall be removed by the sign owner, or by
the South Carolina Department of Transportation
         (6)   A nonconforming sign when relocated or removed shall no longer
be considered a nonconforming sign and thereafter shall be subject to all the
provisions of law and of these rules relating to outdoor advertising.
         (7)   The sign must remain substantially the same as it was on the
effective date of the state law or regulations and local city ordinance which
rendered the sign nonconforming. Extension, enlargement, replacement,
rebuilding, changing the materials of the sign structure's support, adding
lights to an unilluminated sign, changing the height of the sign above ground
or re-erection of the sign will make the sign illegal. The maintenance will be
limited to:
            (a)   Replacement of nuts and bolts;
            (b)   Additional nailing, riveting or welding;
            (c)   Cleaning and painting;
            (d)   Manipulation to level or plumb the device, but not to the
extent of adding guys or struts for stabilization of the sign or structure;
            (e)   A change of the advertising message, including changing
faces, as long as similar materials are used and the sign face is not enlarged.
If the sign face or faces are reduced, they may not thereafter ever be
increased.
         (8)   The City of Dillon Code Enforcement Department and the South
Carolina Department of Transportation must be notified in writing of any
maintenance to a nonconforming sign prior to the work being performed.
         (9)   Any nonconforming sign suffering damage in excess of normal rear
wear cannot be repaired without:
            (a)   Notifying the City of Dillon Code Enforcement Department and
the South Carolina Department of Transportation in writing of the extent of the
damage, the reason the damage is in excess of normal wear and providing clear,
color, on site photographs of the damaged sign and all salvageable parts
thereof, and a description of the repair work to be undertaken including the
estimated cost of repair; and
            (b)   Receiving written notice from the South Carolina Department
of Transportation authorizing the repair work of advertising signs as described
above and obtaining a City of Dillon sign permit prior to the work being
performed.
            (c)   If said work authorization is granted, it shall be mailed to
the applicant by the South Carolina Department of Transportation within 30 days
of receipt of the information described in (a) above. Any such sign which is
repaired without a City of Dillon sign permit and South Carolina Department of
Transportation authorization becomes illegal.
      (H)   Temporary Signs. All temporary signs shall be removed within two
(2) weeks following completion of the event or project for which the sign was
displayed, the sale of property for which the sign was posted, or the election
for which political signs were erected. Mobile signs may be permitted for a
temporary fixed period of time, not to exceed ninety (90) days only on the
property in which the event is taken place and must not be located on SCDOT
Right-of-way.
      (I)   Signs Permitted in the B-5 District.
         (1)   Applicable signs permitted in residential districts.
         (2)   Business signs mounted flat against the front surface of the
building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The total area
of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the front surface of the building facing either a public pedestrian or
vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (3)   Business signs mounted flat against the rear and/or side surface
of the building wall and not projecting above the roof of the building. The
total area of all signs identifying each establishment shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the rear and side surface of the building facing either a
public pedestrian or vehicular way or a parking lot.
         (4)   (a)   On premises business signs and free standing signs. Any
sign, pictorial or otherwise, regardless of size or shape, which directs
attention to a business, commodity, attraction, profession, service or
entertainment conducted, sold, offered, manufactured, existing or provided on
the premises where the sign is located or to which it is affixed. Such signs
are sometimes called "on premises signs" or "point-of-sale signs."
            (b)   On premises business signs and free standing signs shall be
permitted for each business within three hundred (300) feet contiguous to
Interstate Highway 95 (I-95) providing that:
               1.   Such signs shall be limited to one (1) per fifty (50) feet
of lot frontage along a major street or highway.
               2.   All portions of the signs maintain at least a ten (10) feet
setback from any property line.
               3.   No directional signs shall not exceed two (2) square feet
if traffic flow requires a separate exit or entrance sign.
               4.   No free standing sign shall extend over any structure or
adjoining property line.
               5.   No free standing sign exceeds six-hundred seventy-two (672)
square feet in total area.
               6.   No free standing sign be higher than forty (40) feet nor
lower than ten (10) feet above the finished grade of the adjacent street or
pavement.
               7.   Maximum display area.
               The maximum display area for any on premises sign located within
three hundred (300) feet of the right-of-way of Interstate 95 (I-95) shall not
exceed a maximum of six hundred seventy-two (672) square feet. Cutouts and
extensions can be used in addition to this amount but may not increase the size
by more than one-hundred fifty (150) square feet. A copy extension is the part
of the copy which extends beyond the edge or border of the sign, sometimes
called a "cut-out" or "drop-out."
                  a.   No sign facing shall exceed a length of sixty (60) feet.
                  b.   No sign facing shall exceed a height of forty-eight (48)
feet.
                  c.   Back to Back or V-type signs shall be considered as one
(1) sign.
                  d.   No stacked (double deck) sign faces or side by side sign
faces shall be allowed.
                  e.   Signs permitted after the effective date of this
ordinance shall be designed and constructed with single steel pole structural
support designed to meet the wind load requirements of the latest adopted City
Building Codes and must be constructed in accordance with all applicable
provisions of the latest adopted Building and National Electrical Codes.
                  f.   Illustrations for computing sign dimensions are
contained in the illustrations 1 and 2 of this ordinance.
         (5)   Advertising Signs. Any sign, pictorial or otherwise, regardless
of size or shape, which directs attention to a business, commodity, attraction,
profession, service or entertainment conducted, sold, offered, manufactured,
existing, or provided at a location other than on the premises where the sign
is located or to which it is affixed. Such signs are sometimes called "off-
premise signs," "non-point-of-sale signs," and include, but are not limited to
those signs commonly referred to as outdoor advertising signs, billboards, or
poster boards.
            (a)   Location.
               Advertising signs are allowed to locate on interstate highways,
expressways, and frontage roads where their right-of-way is contiguous to an
interstate highway or expressway; however, these signs, within the city limits
be located within three hundred (300) feet of the right-of-way of I-95
(Interstate 95) and shall be permitted subject to the following provisions:
               1.   Advertising signs shall only be permitted within the (B-5)
Interstate Highway Commercial District inside the city limits of Dillon. After
the effective date of this section no city permits shall be issued to construct
an advertising sign within any of the following remaining zoning districts B-1,
B-2, B-3, b-4, I-1, I-2, R-12, R-7, R-5, RU or MH District inside the city
limits of Dillon.
               2.   No advertising signs shall be permitted within a one
hundred (100) feet radius of any residential zoning district or existing
residence.
            (b)   Maximum display area.
               The maximum display area for any advertising sign located along
an interstate shall be six hundred and seventy-two (672) square feet plus a ten
percent (10%) allowance for copy extensions. A copy extension is the part of
the copy which extends beyond the edge or border of the sign, sometimes called
a "cut-out" or "drop-out." An advertising sign shall be considered to be
located along an interstate if it is oriented towards the interstate and is
located within three hundred (300) feet of the right-of-way of the interstate.
               1.   No sign facing shall exceed a length of sixty (60) feet.
               2.   No sign facing shall exceed a height of forty-eight(48)
feet.
               3.   Back to Back or V-type signs shall be considered as one (1)
sign.
               4.   No stacked (double deck) sign faces or side by side sign
faces shall be allowed.
               5.   Signs permitted after the effective date of this ordinance
shall be designed and constructed with single steel pole structural support
designed to meet the wind load requirements of the latest adopted City Building
Codes and must be constructed in accordance with all applicable provisions of
the latest adopted Building and National Electrical Codes.
               6.   a.   Illustrations for computing sign dimensions are
contained in the illustrations 1 and 2 of this ordinance.
                  b.   The display area of advertising signs on any other
highway shall be three hundred and seventy eight (378) square feet plus ten
percent (10%) allowance for copy extensions within the (B-5) Interstate Highway
Commercial District.
            (c)   Minimum spacing.
               No advertising sign located along an interstate shall be erected
less than five hundred (500) feet apart of another sign on the same side of the
roadway and no sign shall be located in front of another sign on the opposite
side of the roadway.
            (d)   Maximum height.
               Advertising signs along interstates shall be permitted to a
height of one hundred (100) feet above the elevation of the interstate. The
maximum height of advertising signs along other roadways shall not exceed forty
(40) feet above the elevation of the roadway.
               1.   Dillon County Land Use and Height Restriction Ordinance
Around Airports. The person or applicant shall notify and obtain a letter from
the Dillon County Administrator which shall state in writing that the proposed
sign is in compliance with the Dillon County Land Use and Height Restriction
Ordinance Around Airports prior to the issuance of a city permit to construct.
               2.   Federal Aviation. The maximum height requirements for
construction and alteration of signs as contained in this ordinance are
supplemented by the requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration which
regulates structures near airports.
                  a.   A determination of no hazard to air navigation may be
required from the Federal Aviation Administration and may contain some
restrictions which are in addition to the requirements of this ordinance.
                  b.   The applicant or person responsible for construction or
alternation of Advertising signs near airports shall notify and obtain approval
from the Federal Aviation Administration prior to construction in accordance
with the following:
                     I.   Any construction or alternation of more than two
hundred (200) feet in height above the ground level at its site.
                     ii.   Any construction or alternation of greater height
than an imaginary surface extending outward and upward at one (1) of the
following slopes:
                        A.   One hundred (100) to one (1) for a horizontal
distance of twenty thousand (20,000) feet from the nearest point of the nearest
runway of any airport that is available or being constructed for public use and
is subject to approval by the FAA with at least one (1) runway more than three
thousand two hundred (3,200) feet in actual length, excluding heliports.
                        B.   Fifty (50) to one (1) for a horizontal distance of
ten thousand (10,000) feet from the nearest point of the runway of any airport
that is available or being constructed for public use and is subject to
approval by the FAA with at least one (1) runway more than three thousand two
hundred (3,200) feet in actual length, excluding heliports.
               3.   Each person who is required to notify the Federal Aviation
Administration shall send one executed form set of FAA Form (Notice of Proposed
Construction or Alteration) to the Manager, Air Traffic Division, FAA Regional
Office having jurisdiction over the area within which the construction or
alteration will be located. Copies of FAA Forms may be obtained from the
headquarters of the Federal Aviation Administration and the regional offices at
(404)305-5587, (404)305-5002 or (404)305-5614.
            (e)   Minimum Height.
               There is no minimum height requirement for advertising signs
located along the interstate. The minimum height of the display surface of
other advertising signs shall be twelve (12) feet.
            (f)   Minimum Setback.
               No part of any advertising sign shall be permitted within ten
(10) feet of any property line.
            (g)   South Carolina Code of Laws.
               1.   The sign regulations contained in this ordinance are
supplemented by the requirements of the State of South Carolina Department of
Transportation which regulates off-premise advertising signs on interstate and
federal aid road systems.
               2.   A permit and/or approval from the State of South Carolina
Department of Transportation may contain some restrictions which are in
addition to the requirements of this ordinance. Issuance of a City of Dillon
Permit does not imply approval of, or constitute a privilege to violate, any
other applicable state or local ordinances, codes, laws, or private restrictive
covenants.
            (h)   Conflict with Other Laws, Ordinances, or Regulations.
               Whenever the requirements made under authority of these
regulations concerning "On premises signs" and "Advertising signs" impose more
stringent standards than are required in any statue or local ordinance or
regulation, provisions of the regulations shall govern. Whenever the provisions
of any other statute or local ordinance or regulation impose the more stringent
standards than are required by these regulations, the provisions of such
statute or local ordinance or regulation shall apply.
            (i)   Variances Prohibited.
               A variance from any of the provisions relating to advertising
signs within §
5-4-103-2(5) of the city code of ordinances is hereby prohibited.
         (6)   Business signs, for shopping centers, in accordance with
standards set forward in the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations.
         (7)   Business signs suspended under canopies, providing that such
signs shall:
            (a)   Be limited to one (1) per building entrance.
            (b)   Be a minimum of nine (9) feet above the sidewalk surface.
            (c)   Not to exceed three (3) square feet in total area.
         (8)   One (1) unlighted temporary real estate sign on a property
offered for sale or rent, not exceeding eight (8) square feet.
         (9)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, engineers, and
artisans during construction, providing such signs are located on the premises
and shall be removed promptly after completion of the work.
         (10)   Temporary signs pertaining to special events or political
campaigns, provided they are located on the premises and do not exceed two (2)
square feet.
         (11)   Signs incident to legal process and necessary for public safety
and welfare.
         (12)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, not
exceeding six (6) square feet, for a club, civic or fraternal, group home,
lodge, public recreation area, or social organization may be located in the
public rights-of-way or private easements of streets and roads within the
corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South Carolina Department of
Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
         (13)   One (1) identification sign, which may be illuminated, for a
school or church or other house of worship, not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet may be located in the public rights-of-way or private easements of streets
and roads within the corporate limits of Dillon with approval from the South
Carolina Department of Transportation and/or City of Dillon.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004; Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-05,
passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 10-12, passed 11-8-
2010)
5-4-103-3    Temporary Use.
      A temporary use permit may be issued by the Code Enforcement Director for
a period not to exceed one (1) year for nonconforming buildings, structures, or
uses incidental to building construction or land development or deemed to be
generally beneficial, upon condition that the building, structure or use shall
be removed upon expiration of the permit. On-premises and off-premises signs
are excluded.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004)
5-4-103-4   Off-street Parking Requirements.
      (A)   Off-Street Parking Required. Permanent off-street parking spaces
shall be provided at the time of the erection, enlargement, change in use, or
increase in capacity of any building. The number of spaces required shall
conform to the standards of this section. Required parking spaces may be
provided on properly graded and improved open space or in a parking structure.
      Each application for a building permit, zoning permit, or certificate of
occupancy shall include a plan shoring the space reserved for off-street
parking and the means of ingress to and egress from such space. This
information shall be in a format sufficient for the Code Enforcement Officer to
determine if the requirements of this section are met.
      (B)   Combination of Required Parking Space. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one (1) lot, but the
required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to any other use, except
that one-half (1/2) of the parking spaces required for theaters, or other uses
whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use
which will be closed at night or on Sundays.
      (C)   Remote Parking.  If the off-street parking space required by this
ordinance cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal
use is located, such space may be provided on any land within four hundred
(400) feet of the principal use; provided that such land is in the same
ownership as the principal use or has been legally restricted for parking in
connection with the principal use.
      (D)   Design of Parking Area. All off-street parking shall be designed so
that vehicles can turn around within the area and enter the street, road, or
highway in such a manner as to completely eliminate the necessity of backing
into the street, road, or highway.
      (E)   Accessibility. Parking areas shall meet the requirements of the
South Carolina Board for Barrier-Free Design for accessibility to disabled
persons in relation to parking spaces and sizes.
      (F)   Size of Parking Space. The parking space for each vehicle shall
consist of a rectangular area having dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet
wide by nineteen (19) feet long; provided that not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the spaces may be designed for compact vehicles and may have
dimensions of eight (8) feet wide by sixteen (16) feet long. Aisles for ingress
and egress to parking spaces shall be at least twenty (20) feet in width for
head-in lot arrangements and fifteen (15) feet in width for angled lot
arrangements.
      (G)   Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. The following minimum
number of spaces shall be provided in the B-5 District. These standards are
minimum; a developer should provide the number of spaces necessary to
adequately accommodate parking for the planned use.
Auditorium and theater           One (1) space for each four (4) seats
                                 One (1) space for each three hundred (300)
Bank                             square feet of gross floor space, plus one (1)
                                 space for each two (2) employees
Convenience store                One (1) space for each two-hundred (200)
                                 square feet of floor area
                                 One (1) space for every one hundred fifty
Medical or dental office         (150) square feet of floor area, plus one (1)
                                 space for each doctor and employee
Office and professional building One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250)
                                 square feet of gross floor area
Public or private club           One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
                                 square feet of gross floor space
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Public utility building          square of floor area available to the public,
                                 plus one (1) space for each employee
Restaurant                       One (1) space for each three (3) seats, plus
                                 one space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Retail store                     square feet of floor area used for sales, plus
                                 one (1) space for each two (2) employees
                                 One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
Sales and service businesses     square feet of floor area available to
                                 customers, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
                                 employees
Service Station                  One (1) space for each car stored, plus one
                                 (1) for each employee
                                 Five and one-half (5-1/2) spaces for every one
Shopping center                  thousand (1,000) square feet of gross leasable
                                 floor space
Stadium                          One (1) space for each four (4) spectator
                                 seats
 
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004; Am. Ord. 07-05, passed 4-9-2007; Am. Ord. 07-18,
passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-103-5   Off-street Loading Requirements.
      All retail uses with a total floor area of ten thousand (10,000) square
feet or more hereafter erected shall have one (1) off-street loading berth for
each ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area. Such space shall have
access to an alley, or if there is no alley, to the street.
      (A)   Size and Design. Off-street loading berths required in this section
shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet wide by twenty-five (25) feet
long with fourteen (14) feet overhead clearance, and shall have adequate means
of ingress and egress. Loading spaces shall be designed so that the vehicles
can maneuver for loading and unloading entirely within the property lines of
the premises.
      (B)   Plan. Each application for a Zoning Permit, Building Permit, or
Certificate of Occupancy for a commercial building over ten thousand (10,000)
square feet shall include a plan showing the required off-street loading space
and the means of ingress to and egress from such space.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004)
5-4-103-6   Lot Sizes and Setback.
      Minimum front setback is twenty-five (25) feet. There are no required
side or rear setbacks. On lots adjacent to a district where residences are
permitted, there shall be a setback on the side abutting the residential
district of not less than the minimum width required in the district it abuts.
All buildings in a shopping center shall be set back from all street right-of-
way lines not less than fifty (50) feet, from side property lines abutting a
district where residences are permitted not less than twenty-five (25) feet;
and from the rear property line not less than twenty-five (25) feet. Additional
standards for shopping centers may be found in the City of Dillon Land
Development Regulations.
5-4-103-7   Height Standards.
      The maximum height of any building is limited to thirty-five (35) feet,
with the following exceptions:
      (A)   Structures Permitted Above the Height Limit.
         Chimneys, poles, spires, tanks, towers, masts, and other similar
structures not used for human occupancy may exceed the district height limit.
However, such structures shall be separated from any adjoining lot line of a
lot in a residential zone by a distance equal to one (1) foot for each two (2)
feet of structure height.
      (B)   Roof Structures housing Equipment.
         Roof structures for housing elevators, stairways, ventilating fans,
heating or air conditioning equipment, or similar equipment required for the
operation and maintenance of a building may be erected above the height limit
in this district.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004)
5-4-103-8   Visibility at Intersections.
      On any corner lot on which a front and side setback is required, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which obstructs sight
lines within a height of two and one-half (2-1/2) feet above the crown of the
adjacent roadway and ten (10) feet in a triangular area formed by measuring
from the point of the intersection of the front and exterior side lot lines and
connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area of the lot
adjacent to the street intersection. Trees shall be permitted within the
triangular area provided no branches are within ten (10) feet above the street.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004)
5-4-103-9   Visibility for Street Entrances.
      At any residential or commercial drive which enters a street, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow which, in the opinion of
the Code Enforcement Director, obstructs sight lines for vehicles entering the
street.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 9-10-2007)
5-4-103-10   Flood Plain Standards.
      The Code Enforcement Director shall comply with applicable Federal
Emergency Management Agency standards for development within flood plains in
the issuance of any zoning permit.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004)
5-4-103-11   Standards for Recreational Vehicle Parks.
      Recreational vehicle parks are allowed as a use within the B-5 District
only in conjunction with hotels and motels. Standards for the development of
recreational vehicle parks are listed in the City of Dillon Land Development
Regulations.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004)
5-4-103-12   Separability.
      (A)   If any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed
unenforceable or invalid, then the remainder of the provisions herein shall not
be affected thereby and the same shall remain in full force and effect. The
Council of the City of Dillon hereby declares that it would have adopted this
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and provision herein,
even without the section(s), subsection(s), sentence(s), clause(s), or
provision(s) that are held to be enforceable or invalid.
      (B)   All ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed
in that respect only.
      (C)   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after the
earliest date permitted by law.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 3-8-2004; Am. Ord. 07-05, passed 4-9-2007)
Sign Area Determination
   The area shall be measured (Inclusive of border, trim, cutouts and
extensions but excluding decorative base and supports) by the smallest square,
rectangle, triangle, circle or combination thereof which will encompass the
entire advertisement. One (1) or combinations of the following examples shall
be used in determination of the area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2455.bmp]
Illustration 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2458.bmp]
MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2461.bmp]
CHAPTER 5: LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
Section
Article A: Authority and Jurisdiction
5-5-1   Authority and Jurisdiction
5-5-1-1   Vested Rights to Develop Property
5-5-2   Jurisdiction
5-5-3 through 5-5-5 Reserved
Article B: Purpose
5-5-6   Purpose
5-5-7 through 5-5-10 Reserved
Article C: Definition
5-5-11   Definitions
5-5-12 through 5-5-15 Reserved
Article D: Platting Requirements and Standards
5-5-16   Platting Required
5-5-17   Plat Approval Procedure - Steps for Approval
5-5-18 through 5-5-20 Reserved
Article E: Required Improvements and Standards
5-5-21   Buffer Yards
5-5-22   Generally
5-5-23   Erosion and Sediment Control
5-5-24   Lot Improvements
5-5-25   Blocks
5-5-26   Roads
5-5-27 through 5-5-30 Reserved
Article F: Supplemental Regulations
5-5-31   Shopping Center Standards
5-5-32   Multi-Family Project Standards
5-5-33   Manufactured or Mobile Home Parks
5-5-34   Recreational Vehicle Park (RV Park)
5-5-35   Cluster Housing Development Standards
5-5-36   Townhouse Development Standards and Procedures
5-5-37 through 5-5-39 Reserved
Article G: Variances
5-5-40   Variances
5-5-41 through 5-5-45 Reserved
Article H: Violations and Penalties
5-5-46   Violations and Penalties
5-5-47 through 5-5-50 Reserved
Article I: Legal Status Provisions
5-5-51   Interpretation
5-5-52   Conflict with other Laws, Ordinances, Regulations
5-5-53   Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances
5-5-54   Amendments
ARTICLE A: AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION
§ 5-5-1 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   These subdivision regulations are adopted under authority granted by S.C.
Code §§ 6-29-1110 et seq., as amended, otherwise known as the South Carolina
Local Government Planning Enabling Act of 1994.
§ 5-5-1-1 VESTED RIGHTS TO DEVELOP PROPERTY.
   (A)   Scope and Title.
   All applicable ordinances, municipal code sections, and regulations relating
to zoning, planning and land development within the corporate limits of the
City of Dillon are subject to this ordinance, which shall be known as the
Vested Rights to Develop Property Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter set forth, the words, terms and phrases when
used in this ordinance shall have the meaning as set forth in S.C. Code § 6-29-
1520, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      (2)   "Site specific development plan ," in addition and as a supplement
to the definition set forth in S.C. Code § 6-29-1520, as enacted by Act 287 of
2004, is further defined to mean those documents that comprise a complete
application for a zoning permit, certificate of zoning compliance, variance,
special exception, planned unit development, sketch plat or sketch plan,
preliminary or final subdivision plat approval, or other similar approval that
authorizes the landowner to proceed with investment in grading, installation of
utilities, streets, and other infrastructure, and to undertake other
significant expenditures necessary to prepare for application for a building
permit.
      (3)   "Vested right" means the right to undertake and complete the
development of property under the terms and conditions of a site specific
development plan or a phased development plan as provided in this article and
in the land development ordinances or regulations of the City of Dillon adopted
pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Establishment and Conditions of Vested Rights.
      (1)   A vested right to develop property in accord with a site specific
development plan is triggered upon the preliminary plat approval of the site
specific development plan by the City of Dillon Planning & Zoning Commission
and the payment to the City of Dillon of all applicable established fees.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter set forth, a vested right established by this
ordinance is subject to the conditions and limitations as set out in S.C. Code
§§ 6-29-1540 and 6-29-1550, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004.
      (3)   A vested right for an approved site specific development plan shall
expire two (2) years after the date of final approval by the City of Dillon
Planning & Zoning Commission and any request for approval of an annual
extension of the vested right after the two (2) year vesting period shall be
and is hereby prohibited.
      (4)   A vested site specific development plan may be amended if the
amendment conforms to, or does not cause greater nonconformity with, the
current provisions of the City of Dillon Zoning, Planning and Land Development
Ordinances. Approval or conditional approval of an amendment does not re-set or
re-start the expiration period of a vested right.
      (5)   A vested right pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-1550 is not a personal
right, but attaches to and runs with the applicable real property. The
landowner and all successors to the landowner who secure a vested right
pursuant to this article may rely upon and exercise the vested right for its
duration subject to applicable federal, state, and local laws adopted to
protect public health, safety, and welfare including, but not limited to,
building, fire, plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes and nonconforming
structure and use regulations which do not provide for the grandfathering of
the vested right. This article does not preclude judicial determination that a
vested right exists pursuant to other statutory provisions. This article does
not affect the provisions of a development agreement executed pursuant to the
South Carolina Local Government Development Agreement Act in Chapter 31 of
Title 6.
      (6)   If real property having an approved vested site specific
development plan is annexed into the city limits of Dillon, the City of Dillon
Planning & Zoning Commission must determine, after notice and public hearing in
which the landowner is allowed to present evidence, if the vested right is
effective after the annexation.
      (7)   No vested rights are established for phased development plans,
including approved or conditionally approved phased development plans and
including phased development plans applicable to property proposed for
annexation. An approved or conditionally approved site specific development
plan is required prior to approval with respect to each phase of a phased
development plan.
      (8)   A vested right to a site specific development plan is subject to
revocation by the City of Dillon Planning & Zoning Commission upon its
determination, after notice and public hearing that there was a material
misrepresentation by the landowner or substantial noncompliance with the terms
and conditions of the original or amended approval.
   (D)   Severability.
      Should any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed
unenforceable or invalid, then the remainder of the provisions herein shall not
be affected thereby and the same shall remain in full force and effect. The
Council of the City of Dillon hereby declares that it would have adopted this
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and provision herein,
even without the section(s), subsection(s), sentence(s), clause(s), or
provision(s) that are held to be enforceable or invalid.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 5-5-2 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land, as defined
in Article C, located within the incorporated areas of the city as now or
hereafter established.
   (B)   No land may be subdivided through the use of any legal description
other than with reference to a surveyed plat approved by the Planning
Commission in accordance with these regulations.
ARTICLE B: PURPOSE
§ 5-5-6 PURPOSE.
   The public health, safety, economy, good order, appearance, convenience,
morals, and general welfare require the harmonious, orderly, and progressive
development of land within the municipalities of the state. In furtherance of
this general intent, the regulation of land development by municipalities is
authorized for the following purposes, among others, as stated in the South
Carolina Local Government Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994, Section
6-29-1120:
   (A)   To encourage the development of economically sound and stable
municipalities;
   (B)   To assure the timely provision of required roads, utilities, and other
facilities and services to new land developments;
   (C)   To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access
and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in and through new land
developments;
   (D)   To assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building
sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land
for recreational, educational, transportation, and other public purposes; and
   (E)   To assure, in general, the wise and timely development of new areas,
or redevelopment of areas in harmony with the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
ARTICLE C: DEFINITION
§ 5-5-11 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meaning indicated. Words and terms not herein defined shall have their
customary dictionary definitions. The term SHALL is mandatory. When not
inconsistent with the content, words used in the singular number include the
plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in
the present tense include the future.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or its representative
who shall have express written authority to act on behalf of the owner. Consent
shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways,
or boundary lines of municipalities.
   BONDING. Any form of a surety bond in an amount and form satisfactory to the
City of Dillon Government. All bonds shall be approved by the City of Dillon
Council whenever a bond is required by these regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels,
processes, equipment or property.
   BUILDING LINE. A line beyond which no foundation, wall, or part of the
structure of any building shall project, with the exception of subsurface
projection of footings.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A document or certificate issued by the City of Dillon
authorizing construction, enlargement, alteration, moving of, or demolition of
a building, or structure.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate of approval for occupancy issued
after final inspection of a building by the applicable city official. Such a
certificate must be obtained from the city before a building or structure can
be lawfully occupied.
   COMMON OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockbroker, partner, or associate, or a member of his/her family owns
an interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated
association.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Any legally adopted part or element of the Comprehensive
Development Plan of The City of Dillon, South Carolina and its environs. This
plan may include, but is not limited to, the Zoning Ordinance, Land Development
Ordinance, Community Facilities Plan, Capital Improvement Plan and Land Use
Plan.
   CROSSWALK. A right-of-way (within a block) ten (10) feet or more in width,
dedicated for public use, and intended for pedestrian access to adjacent land
areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local road, with one end open to traffic and the other end
terminated with a planned vehicular turnaround. Cul-de-sac length shall not
exceed one thousand (1,000) feet.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per net acre of developed land,
excluding land devoted to streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, schools, or
other public uses.
   DESIGN CRITERIA. Standards that set forth specific improvement requirements.
   DEVELOPER. An individual, partnership or corporation (or agent therefor) who
is responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/or approval under
these regulations.
   DHEC. South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control or its
successor agency.
   DWELLING. Any building used or intended for human habitation, including any
permitted home occupation, but excluding hotels, motels, boarding houses, and
tourist courts.
      DWELLING (ONE-FAMILY OR SINGLE-FAMILY). A detached dwelling, other than a
manufactured home, designed for or occupied exclusively by one family on a
single lot.
      DWELLING (TWO-FAMILY OR DUPLEX). A detached dwelling, other than a
manufactured home, containing two (2) separate dwelling units, commonly known
as a duplex. These dwellings may be rental units or owner-occupied, and
generally the common areas are under one roof.
      DWELLING (GROUP). A group of two (2) or more principal structures built
on a single lot, parcel or tract of land and designed for occupancy by separate
families.
      DWELLING (MULTIPLE). A dwelling occupied by three (3) or more families or
living units where the common areas are under one ownership. Examples of multi-
family dwellings include apartments, condominiums, cooperatives, and similar
structures.
      DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling containing one (1) or more rooms, commonly with
cooking and bathroom facilities, intended as a place of residence for one
family.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use, for a specific purpose,
of a strip or parcel of land. Such grant may be made to and accepted by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons.
   ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer in good standing with the State
Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The terms
practice of engineering, engineering services, work performed by an engineer,
or any similar term within the intent of this ordinance, requiring the services
of a professional engineer, shall mean any professional service or creative
work requiring engineering education, training and experience and the
application of special knowledge of the mathematical, physical and engineering
sciences to such professional services or creative work as consultation,
investigation, evaluation, planning, design and supervision of construction for
the purpose of assuring compliance with specifications and design in connection
with any public or private utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, works or projects.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete water
coverage of normally dry land area because of the accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Land areas adjoining a river, stream or water course which are
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year,
which areas are more specifically established by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study for The City of Dillon dated
July 5, 1982.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the one hundred (100) year
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
(1) foot at any point.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. The changing of land characteristics through
redevelopment, construction, subdivision into parcels, condominium complexes,
apartment complexes, commercial parks, shopping centers, industrial parks,
manufactured home parks, and similar developments for sale, lease, or any
combination of owner and rental characteristics.
   LOT. A single parcel or tract of continuous land intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership, or for building development, or both.
      AREA. The total gross area of the lot excluding the street right-of-way.
Minimum lot sizes to be determined in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance.
      CORNER. A lot with frontage on each of two (2) intersecting roads located
at the point of intersection.
      DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear property
lines.
      DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A parcel having frontage on two (2) or more roads
which is not located at any intersection of such roads.
      EXISTING LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location, and dimensions
have been legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat prior to the
effective date of this ordinance.
      FLAG LOT. A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a
narrow corridor.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines at the
building setback line measured parallel with the front lot line or in the case
of a curvi-linear road measured parallel to the chord of the arc between the
intersection of the side lot lines and the road right-of-way line.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions of eleven (11) or more lots, or any
size subdivision requiring any new road or extension of the local government
facilities or the creation of any public improvements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40)
body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty
(320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. Note: Manufactured home
and mobile home are used interchangeably throughout this document.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than ten (10) lots
fronting on an existing publicly maintained or accepted road, not involving any
new road, or the extension of public facilities or the creation of any public
improvements, and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or
adjoining property, and not in conflict with any provision or portion of these
regulations or other applicable ordinance.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached, single-family dwelling built prior to June 15, 1976
designed for long-term occupancy, designed to be transported on wheels,
arriving at the site in sections or as a complete dwelling unit, usually
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy. Removal of
the wheels and placement of a foundation does not change the mobile home
classification. A travel trailer is not a mobile home. Note: Manufactured home
and mobile home are used interchangeably throughout this document.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PERMIT. A document or certificate issued by the
City of Dillon authorizing the placement, alteration, or moving of a mobile
home or manufactured home.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land which has been
planned, subdivided and improved, for sale or transfer, to receive the
placement of mobile or manufactured homes for nontransient use.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure consisting of two (2) or more prefabricated
components designed to be transported to a lot and placed on a permanent
foundation, and which is certified by the South Carolina Building Codes Council
as conforming to Southern Building Code standards for site built units. A
mobile home, house trailer, or manufactured home is not a modular building.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
   OPEN SPACE SITE. A tract of land provided in residential subdivisions to
meet the local recreational needs of residents. Such tracts may include play
areas, small parks, natural woods and areas of unusual scenic beauty.
   OWNER. The record owners of the fee or a vendee in possession, including any
person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in
the land sought to be subdivided under the definition of same ownership.
   OWNER'S ENGINEER. The engineer registered and in good standing with the S.C.
Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors who is the
agent of the owner of land which is proposed to be subdivided, or which is in
the process of being subdivided.
   OWNER'S LAND SURVEYOR. The land surveyor registered and in good standing
with the S.C. Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors who is the agent of the owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or
which is in the process of being subdivided.
   PARKING, OFF-ROAD. An area adequate for parking an automobile with room for
opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to a public
road arranged so that no maneuvering incidental to parking shall be on any
road.
   PARKS. Lots or parcels of land devoted to recreational pursuit, both active
and passive. Facilities can range from open landscaped areas to tot lots,
playgrounds, neighborhood parks, and playfields. This definition specifically
excludes commercially operated amusement parks, and similar facilities.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Dillon, South
Carolina.
   PLAT. A map or drawing which is an accurate graphical representation of a
subdivider's plan for subdivision.
      SKETCH PLAN. A simple sketch of a proposed subdivision layout, showing
roads and other principal features.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a
subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate its workability in all aspects.
      FINAL PLAT. An as-built plat of a tract of land which meets the
requirements of these Regulations and is in final form for recording in the
offices of the Dillon County Registrar of Deeds (Clerk of Court).
   PRIVATE ROAD. A road is private unless its right-of-way has been dedicated
to and accepted by the state or the governing authority of the City of Dillon.
All such non-dedicated roads must be indicated as such prior to subdivision
approval. Maintenance arrangements for such roads must be stated in writing on
subdivision plat submittals. All private roads shall meet the same design and
construction standards required of comparable public roads. The developer shall
install and maintain signs which meet the City of Dillon specifications at the
beginning of private roads which state State/City Maintenance Ends. All
required signs must be installed prior to final plat approval.
   PUBLIC ROAD. This means, relates to, and includes the entire right-of-way of
roads, avenues, boulevards, streets, highways, freeways, lanes, courts,
thoroughfares, collectors, minor roads, cul-de-sacs and other ways considered
public and both dedicated to and accepted by the state or governing authority
of the City of Dillon.
      ARTERIAL ROAD. A major road that serves as an avenue for circulation
into, out of, or around the city.
      COLLECTOR ROAD. A road that has the primary purpose of intercepting
traffic from intersecting local roads and handling movements to the nearest
arterial road. A secondary function is to provide direct access to abutting
properties.
      LOCAL ROAD. A road that has the primary purpose of providing access to
abutting properties.
   SANITARY SEWER. A constructed conduit connected with or as a sewer system
for the carrying of liquids and solids other than storm waters to a sanitary
treatment facility.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM. A system for the treatment and disposal of domestic sewage by
means of a septic tank and a soil absorption system. All such systems are
subject to the review and approval of the South Carolina Department of Health
and Environmental Control.
   SETBACK LINE. The depth and width of any required open space; the minimum
distance between any building and an adjacent lot, or street; the setback is
required to be unoccupied and unobstructed by any building or structure except
for walls or fences, flagpoles, clothes lines, bird houses, utility rights-of-
way, and other yard accessories. Setback areas are measured from the applicable
property or lot line or the street. Where no road right-of-way exists, a
minimum distance of thirty three (33) feet from the road centerline shall
apply.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity subdividing
land within the jurisdiction of this ordinance.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of transfer, sale, lease, or building development, and includes all
divisions of land involving a new road or a change in existing roads, and
includes re-subdivision which would involve the further division or relocation
of lot lines of any lot or lots within a subdivision previously made and
approved or recorded according to law; or, the alteration of any roads or the
establishment of any new roads within any subdivision previously made and
approved or recorded according to law as well as combinations of lots of
record. The following exceptions are included within this definition only for
the purpose of requiring that the City of Dillon Planning & Zoning Commission
be informed and have a record of such subdivisions:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted
lots where the total number of lots have not increased and the resultant lots
are equal to the standards of the governing authority.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more where
no new street is involved and plats of these exceptions must be received as
information by the planning agency which shall indicate that fact on the plats;
and
      (3)   The combining or recombining of entire lots of record where no new
street or change in existing streets is involved.
      All previously platted subdivisions which are not in compliance with the
standards contained in this ordinance upon adoption must be brought into
compliance prior to development when:
      (1)   Construction of structures has not been completed on at least 50
percent (50%) of the proposed lots; and
      (2)   Installation of utilities has not been completed to at least 50
percent (50%) of the proposed lots.
(Am. Ord. 02-05, passed 4-8-2002; Am. Ord. 02-08, passed 6-10-2002)
   SURVEY. The orderly process of determining data relating to the physical
characteristics of the earth, which may be further defined according to the
type of data obtained, the methods and instruments used, and the purpose(s) to
be served.
      BOUNDARY SURVEY. A survey, the primary purpose of which may include, but
is not limited to, the determining of the perimeters of a parcel or tract of
land by establishing or reestablishing corners, monuments, and boundary lines
for the purpose of describing, or platting or dividing the parcel.
      CLOSING/LOAN OR MORTGAGE SURVEY. A boundary survey of a parcel or lot
which includes all improvements obvious and apparent found on the property, to
be used in the preparation of a mortgage, loan or deed document.
      GEODETIC SURVEY. A survey of areas and points affected by and taking into
account the curvature of the earth and astronomic observations.
      HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEY. A survey having for its principal purpose the
determination of data relating to bodies of water, and which may consist of the
determination of one or several of the following classes of data: depth of
water and configuration of bottom; directions and force of current; heights and
times and water stages; and locations of fixed objects for survey and
navigation purposes.
      SITE SURVEY. A survey performed to obtain horizontal and/or vertical
dimensional data so that the constructed facility may be located and
delineated.
      TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEY. A survey of the natural and selected man-made
features of a part of the earth's surface by remote sensing and/or ground
measurements to determine horizontal and vertical spatial relations.
   SURVEYOR. A registered land surveyor in good standing with the State Board
of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The terms
practice of land surveying, land surveying, the preparation or submission of
plats, or other related terms within the meaning and intent of this ordinance
shall include measuring and locating lines, angles, elevations, natural and
manmade features in the air, on the surface of the earth, with underground
workings, or on the beds or bodies of water for the purpose of determining
areas and volumes, for the monumenting or marking of property boundaries and
for the platting and laying out of lands and subdivisions thereof, including
the topographic alignment and grades of streets and for the preparation of
maps, plats and property descriptions that represent the surveys.
   TERRAIN CLASSIFICATIONS. Classification of terrain by grade ranges as
follows:
 
Level   Grade range of 0% to 8%
Rolling Grade range of 8.1% to 15%
Hilly   Grade range of over 15%
 
   TRANSFER OR SALE OF LOTS. Any agreement to transfer or sell or negotiate to
transfer or sell land(s) to be subdivided by reference to, or exhibition of, or
by other use of a plat of subdivision of such land. Any such agreement,
negotiated before such plat has been approved by the City of Dillon Planning
Commission and recorded by the Dillon County Clerk of Court shall be considered
a violation of this ordinance and punishable as provided herein. The
description of metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
documents used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the
transaction from these penalties. The City of Dillon may enjoin such transfer
or sale or agreement by appropriate action.
   TRANSIENT. Shall refer to a structure which is not permanent in nature. Such
uses are temporary and are not intended to stay in place for more than ninety
(90) consecutive days.
   UTILITIES. Utilities shall consist of any and all utility services to a
subdivision, including water, electricity, telephone, cable television, gas,
and sanitary sewerage, whether such utilities are supplied by a private
individual, private company, or a governmental entity.
   VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning chapter
where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   YARD, REQUIRED. The open space between a lot line and the building area
within which no structure may be located except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. All yards referred to in this chapter are minimum required yards.
      YARD (FRONT). A FRONT YARD  is an open unoccupied space on the same lot
with a main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between
the front line of the lot and the front line of the building projected to the
side lines of the lot. The depth of the  FRONT YARD shall be measured between
the front line of the building and the property line; covered porches, whether
enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and
shall not project into a required yard.
      YARD (REAR). A REAR YARD is an open space on the same lot with the main
building unoccupied except as hereinafter permitted, extending the full width
of the full lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line
of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the REAR
YARD shall be measured between the rear line of the lot, or the center line of
the alley, if there be an alley, and the rear line of the building.
      YARD (SIDE). A SIDE YARD  is an open, unoccupied space on the same lot
with the main building, situated between the side extending from the rear line
of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If there be no front
yard, the front boundary of the SIDE YARD shall be the front line of the lot;
and if there be no rear yard, the rear boundary of the SIDE YARD shall be the
rear line of the lot.
ARTICLE D: PLATTING REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS
§ 5-5-16 PLATTING REQUIRED.
   No plat of the subdivision of any land within the incorporated areas of the
City of Dillon shall be filed with or recorded by the Clerk of Court of Dillon
County until such plat shall have been submitted to and approved by the City of
Dillon Planning Commission or designee according to the procedures set forth,
in this ordinance. No road or other way or land shall be accepted or
maintained, nor shall any water lines, sewerage, road lighting or similar
improvements be extended or connected, nor shall any permit be issued by any
department of the city for any building or other improvements in any
subdivision established hereafter which has not been approved by the City of
Dillon Planning Commission and met such requirements as prescribed by the city
governing body.
5-5-16-1   General.
      (A)   The surveyor is to place the statement No New Lots or Property
Lines Established on any boundary or similar surveys which must be approved by
the Code Enforcement Director. This statement will allow the Dillon County
Clerk of Court Office to record the plat without approval from the City of
Dillon Planning Commission. A plat is required any time there is a new property
line(s) proposed or there is an elimination or change in an existing property
line(s) not currently reflected on the Dillon County Tax Maps.
      (B)   A deed should not be submitted for recording to the County Clerk of
Court, involving property required to be approved as stated above, unless a
plat is prepared in association with the deed and stamped approved accordingly.
When a deed is recorded without the required plat, the deed will be returned to
the applicant by the City of Dillon for correction. Recording fees will not be
refunded. The applicant will be responsible for obtaining the required plat and
recording the corrected deed and approved plat with the County Clerk of Court.
The Assessor will not subdivide the property until the required plat is
recorded.
§ 5-5-17 PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE - STEPS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Three (3) steps are provided for plat approval. One (1) step is
optional; the other two (2) are required. The steps are:
      (1)   Review and approval of sketch plan (optional).
      (2)   Review and approval of preliminary plat and supporting data.
      (3)   Review and approval of final plat.
   (B)   Step (2) shall be completed prior to making any road improvements, or
installing any utilities. Step (3) shall be completed prior to the sale of lots
in the subdivision.
5-5-17-1   Sketch Plan Review.
      (A)   A sketch plan is intended to be a simplified, conceptual drawing
submitted to staff. Although its submission is not required, it is encouraged.
For persons who are developing property, the City Planning Commission offers
the sketch plan option as a convenience. The purpose of this optional sketch
plan step is to provide a means of offering advice and guidance to the
subdivider before extensive site planning and engineering work is undertaken.
This step allows the subdivider to obtain guidance from staff and the
Commission concerning the proposed layout and determine what will be required
before making detailed plans.
      (B)   The subdivider may submit three (3) copies of the sketch plan to
the staff of the Planning Commission and the staff of the Planning Commission
shall approve or disapprove the sketch plan within fifteen (15) working days.
If the sketch plan is disapproved by staff, or if additional changes are
requested, and the subdivider does not agree with the staff's decisions, the
subdivider may submit eight (8) copies of the sketch plan to the Planning
Commission for consideration at its next regular meeting, provided such person
notifies the Planning Commission staff of such intent to do so at least ten
(10) working days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Commission.
      (C)   The Planning Commission shall review and approve, disapprove, or
approve with modifications the sketch plan at the meeting at which it is
presented. Pertinent comments and recommendations shall be noted in the minutes
of the Planning Commission meeting and by letter to the applicant.
5-5-17-2   Plat Requirements - Sketch Plan (Optional).
      (A)   The sketch plan shall include a vicinity map at a scale of not less
than one (1) inch equals one (1) mile showing the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to surrounding developments.
      (B)   All sketch plans shall include the following:
         (1)   An accounting of total acreage in the tract to be divided;
         (2)   A typical lot area and the approximate number of lots;
         (3)   The existing and proposed uses of land throughout the
subdivision;
         (4)   The existing uses of land surrounding the subdivision;
         (5)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
         (6)   Proposed road(s) and their general alignment and proposed names.
      (C)   A subdivider may and is encouraged to, submit a sketch plan of the
subdivider's entire tract even though the subdivider's present plans call for
the actual development of only part of the property.
5-5-17-3   Preliminary Plat and Supporting Data.
      (A)   (1) Any subdivider seeking approval of a preliminary plat shall
apply for preliminary plat approval on forms specified by the director (or
designee) of the Planning Commission staff. Completed applications and all
supporting data must be submitted to the Planning Commission staff by the first
Tuesday of the month in order to be placed on that month’s Planning Commission
agenda. The Planning Commission meets on the last Tuesday of the month (pending
holidays). The application shall be accompanied by eight (8) copies of the
subdivision plat and supporting data along with the application fee of twenty
dollars ($20) and an inspection fee of ten dollars ($10) per lot or forty
dollars ($40) per acre to cover administrative costs.
         (2) The preliminary plat and supporting data shall meet the minimum
requirements contained in this ordinance. Copies of the preliminary plat and
supporting data shall be submitted by the Planning Commission's staff to the
following agencies for review, comment and/or approval unless written approval
by such agency accompanies the application:
            (a)   Directors of city departments responsible for streets, water,
storm drainage, and sanitary sewerage;
            (b)   Appropriate division of DHEC;
            (c)   USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS);
            (d)   USDA Dillon Soil and Water Conservation District.
(Am. Ord. 02-05, passed 4-8-2002; Am. Ord. 02-08, passed 6-10-2002)
      (B)   The person or agency to whom or to which a review copy of the
preliminary plat and supporting data is directed shall indicate on the plat any
comments or conditions, and shall submit same to the Planning Commission staff
within fifteen (15) days of the date of preliminary plat application. The
person or agency shall specifically address such inadequacies as may affect the
proposed subdivision and surrounding and anticipated development.
      (C)   The Planning Commission shall render a decision on the preliminary
plat and supporting data within forty (40) days of the meeting, and such action
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. If the plat is approved, the
Planning Commission shall indicate in writing the conditions of such approval,
if any. If the plat is disapproved, the Planning Commission shall state in
writing its disapproval and its reasons for such action. All such actions of
the Planning Commission shall be recorded in the minutes of the Planning
Commission meeting at which action is taken.
      (D)   When a preliminary plat is approved, the Planning Commission staff
shall do the following things:
         (1)   Note such approval of the preliminary plat on the plat,
certified by the Planning Commission's designee on authorization of the
Planning Commission.
         (2)   Note on the plat the date on which the Planning Commission
granted approval.
         (3)   Note on the plat the date of written notification to the
subdivider or the subdivider's authorized agent.
         (4)   Place on the plat the seal of the Planning Commission.
         (5)   Notify Building and Codes Department of preliminary plat
approval.
      (E)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the
final plat. Application for approval of the final (record) plat shall be
considered only after the specifications and requirements of this ordinance are
met and all other specified conditions have been met. Upon approval of the
preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, the subdivider may proceed to
comply with other requirements of these regulations and the preparation of the
final subdivision plat. At this time notification shall be sent to the City
Manager, and the City of Dillon Building and Zoning Department that the
preliminary plat has been approved and that road improvements and utility
installations at the proposed site of the application may be commenced by the
applicant providing all applicable state and local permits have been obtained.
A subdivider must begin required improvements within twenty-four (24) months
from the date of preliminary plat approval or said approval shall be considered
null and void. If this twenty-four (24) month requirement is not met, or if the
project ceases at any time for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months,
the subdivider must then resubmit for preliminary plat approval in accordance
with the provisions of this ordinance.
5-5-17-4   Plat Requirements - Preliminary Plat and Supporting Data.
      The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale of two hundred (200) feet
to one (1) inch or greater. This map and supporting data shall meet basic
standards of design as set forth in these regulations and shall be prepared
according to the rules and regulations established for engineers and surveyors
by the state Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors.
      (A)   General.
         (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision and owner and/or
subdivider.
         (2)   A graphic scale, north arrow and date (north arrow shall be
identified as magnetic, true, or grid).
         (3)   A vicinity map at a scale of not less than one (1) inch equals
one (1) mile showing the relationship to the adjacent surrounding area.
         (4)   The boundaries of the tract to be subdivided with all bearings
and distances indicated (survey specifics are covered further in this chapter).
      (B)   Existing conditions.
         (1)   Zoning classifications of area to be subdivided as well as
adjacent areas (if possible).
         (2)   Total acreage of area to be subdivided.
         (3)   The property tax map number of the property to be subdivided.
         (4)   Deed record names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions.
         (5)   Location of streams and lakes; and of land subject to one
hundred (100) year flood on the property to be subdivided.
         (6)   Location of adjoining property lines and existing buildings on
the property to be subdivided.
         (7)   Location and rights-of-way of roads, railroads, utility lines,
and any other known easements either on or adjacent to the property to be
subdivided. Specifics must be given as to whether utility lines are in
easements or rights-of-way and location of poles and towers must be shown.
         (8)   Size and location of existing sewers, water mains, drains,
culverts, or other underground facilities within the road or within the right-
of-way of roads or roads adjoining the tract. Grades and invert elevations of
sewers must be shown.
         (9)   Written statement from DHEC referencing the general suitability
of all parcels for the use of individual wells and septic tanks where
individual disposal systems are proposed.
         (10)   The acreage of each drainage area affecting the proposed
subdivision. Topographical information showing contour lines at maximum of ten
(10) foot intervals.
         (11)   Location of municipal and county lines, if applicable.
      (C)   Proposed Conditions.
         (1)   Layout and rights-of-ways of proposed roads, public crosswalks,
road names or designations, grades, and cross-sections. Proposed road names
must be submitted to the Dillon County E-911 Addressing for tentative approval.
Road names are not official until approved by the City of Dillon Planning
Commission.
         (2)   Profile of proposed roads showing natural and finished grades.
Cross sections indicating construction standards of streets, cul-de-sacs, and
when applicable, curb and gutter. Cross sections to include the following data:
rights-of-way, slope, base course, pavement width, pavement type, width and
location of drainage ditches, compaction standards for fill areas, and roadway
stabilization material. Additional cross-sections and calculations may be
required upon review by the City of Dillon Planning Commission.
         (3)   Total number of all lots, total acreage, total lot area for each
lot, layout of all lots, including building setback lines; scaled dimensions of
lots; lot and block numbers; utility easements with width and use.
         (4)   Letter of capability and willingness to provide sewer service to
the subdivision from a licensed sewer utility and verification that the
developer has applied for a permit to construct from DHEC, if the sewer service
is required for the subdivision under the provisions of this code.
         (5)   Construction plan of storm sewer systems with grade, pipe size,
and location of outlet. Storm sewers shall be sized to accommodate runoff based
upon the previous twenty-five (25) years of rainfall frequency.
         (6)   Letter of capability and willingness to provide water service to
the subdivision from a licensed water utility and verification that the
developer has applied for a permit to construct from DHEC, if water service is
required for the subdivision under the provision of this ordinance.
         (7)   Designation of all land (if any) to be reserved or dedicated for
public use.
         (8)   Designation of proposed use of all lots.
         (9)   Proposed major contour changes in area where substantial cut or
fill is to be done.
5-5-17-5   Final Plat.
      (A)   After completion of the physical development of all or part of the
area shown on the preliminary plat, and notification from the City Managers or
designee that road improvement development has been completed to city
specification and acceptance, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning
Commission five (5) legible copies of the final plat, prepared in accordance
with provisions of these regulations along with all other certifications
required and executed. The Planning Commission shall act on the final plat
within thirty (30) business days of its receipt. Failure of the Planning
Commission to act within thirty (30) business days after submittal of the plat
shall be deemed to constitute final approval and a certificate to that fact
shall be issued by the Planning Commission; provided, however, the subdivider
may waive such requirements and consent in writing to the extension of the
approval period.
      (B)   Upon approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission or
designee, one (1) print of the plat shall be stamped with the certificate of
the Planning Commission and returned to the subdivider. This print becomes the
instrument to be recorded in the office of the County Clerk of Court and shall
constitute final approval. In no case shall the Planning Commission disapprove
a final plat of a subdivision which:
         (1)   Meets the requirements of a final plat as set forth in these
regulations, and
         (2)   Conforms to an approved preliminary plat, and
         (3)   Has all the required improvements installed and approved.
      (C)   In the event a final plat is disapproved, the reasons for such
disapproval shall be noted in the minutes of the Planning Commission and in
writing to the subdivider.
      (D)   Minor subdivisions, as defined in this ordinance, which do not
involve the platting, construction or opening of new roads, new water or sewer
facilities, or improvements to existing roads shall be received by the Planning
Commission or designee in the form of the final plat. Such plat shall comply in
all respects to these regulations. Sketch plans and preliminary plats are not
required in such cases.
      (E)   Developer must comply with the City of Dillon Flood Damage and
Prevention Ordinance. No portion of a subdivision shall be approved for
construction which is subject to inundation by a flood of one hundred (100)
year frequency or less unless such portion of the subdivision is filled or
otherwise protected to raise the elevation to at least one (1) foot above the
one hundred (100) year frequency flood elevation. Such fill or other protection
shall not encroach on the required floodway of the watercourse. The elevation
of the fill, or adequacy of other protection, shall be certified by a
registered engineer or land surveyor before the approval of the final plat.
      (F)   The Clerk of Court of the county shall not accept, file, or record
any subdivision plat before it has received final plat approval from the City
of Dillon Planning Commission.
5-5-17-6   Plat Requirements - Final Plat.
      If the final plat is drawn in two (2) or more sections, each section
shall be accompanied by a key map showing the location of the several sections.
Final plats shall be drawn at a scale of two hundred (200) feet to one (1)
inch, or greater, and shall contain the following specific information:
      (A)   Name of owner of record.
      (B)   Name of subdivision and identification number assigned, date, north
arrow, and graphic scale.
      (C)   Name, registration number, and seal of registered surveyor.
      (D)   Sufficient surveying data to determine readily and reproduce
accurately on the ground the location, bearing, and length of every road line,
lot line, easement, boundary line, and building line whether curved or
straight. This shall include the radius, point of tangent, and other data for
curved property lines and curved roads, to an appropriate accuracy and in
conformance with good surveying practice.
      (E)   Names of owners of record of all adjoining land and all property
boundaries, watercourses, roads, easements, utilities and other such
improvements, which cross or form a boundary line of the tract being
subdivided.
      (F)   Exact boundaries of the tract of land being subdivided as noted in
the survey standards.
      (G)   Roads, rights-of-ways, percent of grades and road names.
      (H)   Rights-of-way or easements; location, widths, and purposes.
      (I)   Lot lines, minimum building setback lines, and lot and block
indicators.
      (J)   Any parks, schools sites, or other public open spaces (assuming
same exist or are proposed).
      (K)   All dimensions shall be to the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of a
foot and angles to the nearest twenty (20) seconds.
      (L)   Accurate description of the location of all survey monuments and
survey markers.
      (M)   Utility easements, showing the widths of the following: (a) water,
(b) gas, (c) sanitary sewer, (d) storm drainage, and (e) electrical line.
      (N)   Location of streams, lakes, and land subject to one hundred (100)
year flood on the property to be subdivided, and base flood elevations. If a
flood insurance study has not been performed an approximate base flood
elevation can be indicated.
      (O)   Location of on-site debris burial.
      (P)   The following signed certificates shall appear on the final plat
which is submitted to the Planning Commission by the subdivider:
         (1)   Certificate of approval for recording (to be placed on a print
of the approved final plat by the Planning Commission and returned to the
subdivider for recording)
         The subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to comply with the
City of Dillon Land Development Regulations and has been approved for recording
in the office of the Clerk of Court of Dillon County, South Carolina.
                     _____________________,20___
                     _________________________(Title)
         (2)   Certificate of accuracy.
         (3)   The following signed certificate:
         I hereby certify that the road, drainage system, sewer system and
water system in ______________subdivision as shown on the Plat
dated________________ has been installed in accordance with the Preliminary
Plat (Construction Drawings) approved___________________________.
         Seal_______________________________
               Registered Engineer
         (This certificate should be submitted separate from the final plat.)
         (4)   Statement from South Carolina Department of Health and
Environmental Control (This statement must be attached to the final plat): In
accordance with §
5-5-17-6 of this ordinance, a written statement from DHEC referencing the
general suitability of all parcels for the use of individual wells and septic
tanks (individual disposal systems). The final plat (recording instrument)
shall include only those parcels of land that have been deemed suitable for
individual septic tank systems as indicated by DHEC (if applicable).
       (Q)   (1)   After receiving the preliminary plat approval, a developer
may file cash performance bonds or a certified letter from a bona fide
established bank located within the State of South Carolina confirming the
establishment of a construction escrow account with funds in an amount
determined by and acceptable to the City of Dillon Council and the City
Planning Commission sufficient to guarantee the installation and satisfactory
completion of paving improvements and erosion and sediment control measures as
required by the Land Development Regulations of the City of Dillon Code of
Ordinances. Such performance bonds shall be filed in cash in an amount
determined by and acceptable to the City of Dillon Council and the City
Planning Commission, sufficient to guarantee the installation and satisfactory
completion of paving improvements and erosion and sediment control measures.
         (2)   Upon approval of the cash bond or certified letter from a bona
fide established bank located within the State of South Carolina confirming the
establishment of a construction escrow account as permitted under this section
for paving and erosion and sediment control improvements, the developer shall
complete such improvements within two (2) years of the approval of the bond or
certified letter by the City of Dillon Council and City Planning Commission.
         (3)   If the developer shall fail to complete the required
improvements satisfactorily within the required period of time the bond or
construction escrow account required by this section shall be forfeited and
applied to the cost of completion of the required improvements; provided,
however, that the developer shall remain liable for all caste and expenses
incurred in making the required improvements.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-13-2006)
5-5-17-7   Final Plat Revisions.
      If it should be necessary to revise a final plat due to a dimensional
error, a revised plat shall be submitted to the County Clerk for final
recording after the Planning Commission or designee has approved and signed the
revised plat. Any new lots must be resubmitted in accordance with the final
plat procedure process.
5-5-17-8   Plat Recordation; Maximum Sheet Size.
      The maximum size for plats to be recorded in the office of the clerk of
court for Dillon County, South Carolina, shall be a sheet size of twenty-four
(24) inches by thirty-six (36) inches with a drawing size of twenty-two (22)
inches by thirty-four (34) inches. Minimum size for plats to be recorded shall
be a sheet size of eight and one half (8-1/2) inches by eleven (11) inches.
5-5-17-9   Road Name Approval.
      The Planning Commission shall review and be responsible for naming any
road or road laid out in the city on any subdivision plat or group development.
No road name shall be approved which duplicates or sounds like any existing
road within the city limits. All proposed road names must be submitted to the
Dillon County E-911 Addressing Technician for tentative approval prior to
submittal of plans to the City of Dillon Planning Commission.
ARTICLE E: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND STANDARDS
   A well designed subdivision is not an asset to any community until the
necessary improvements have been installed. In order that prospective lot
purchasers may obtain usable products, and new subdivisions may be an asset
rather than a liability to the community, the subdivider shall install and pay
for the improvements required by these regulations necessary to serve the
subdivision prior to the approval of the final plat.
§ 5-5-21 BUFFER YARDS.
5-5-21-1   Purpose and Definition of Buffer Yards.
      (A)   The buffer yard is a unit of yard together with the planting
required thereon. Both the amount of land and the type and amount of planting
specified for each buffer yard required by this ordinance are designed to
ameliorate nuisances between adjacent land uses or between a land use and a
public road. The planting units required of buffer yards have been calculated
to insure that they do, in fact, function to buffer.
      (B)   Buffer yards shall be required to separate different land uses from
each other in order to eliminate or minimize potential nuisances such as dirt,
litter, noise, glare of lights, signs, and unsightly building or parking areas,
or to provide spacing to reduce adverse impacts of noise, odor, or danger from
fires or explosions.
5-5-21-2   Location of Buffer Yards.
      Buffer yards shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or parcel,
extending to the lot or parcel boundary line. Buffer yards shall not be located
on any portion of an existing public or private street or right-of-way.
5-5-21-3   Determination of Buffer Yard Requirements.
      To determine the buffer yard required between two (2) adjacent parcels or
between a parcel and a street, the following procedure shall be followed:
      (A)   Identify the proposed land use;
      (B)   Identify the use of land adjacent to the proposed use;
      (C)   Determine the buffer yard required on each boundary (or segment
thereof) of the subject parcel by referring to the following Table of Buffer
Yard Requirements and illustrations which specify the buffer yard required
between streets and adjacent land uses. The letter designations contained in
the table refer to the type of buffer yard specified by the illustrations
contained in this article;
      (D)   Any of the several options contained in the illustrations shall
satisfy the requirements of buffering between adjacent land uses and streets.
5-5-21-4   Responsibility for Buffer Yard.
      (A)   When a use is first to develop on two (2) adjacent vacant parcels,
the first use shall provide the buffer, specified by the Table of Bufferyard
Requirements for vacant land.
      (B)   The second use to develop shall at the time it develops, provide
all additional plant material and/or land necessary to provide the total buffer
yard required between the two (2) uses, as specified by the Table of Bufferyard
Requirements.
5-5-21-5   Buffer Yard Specifications.
      (A)   The following illustrations graphically indicate the specifications
of each buffer yard. The requirements are stated in terms of the width of the
buffer yard and the number of plants required per one hundred (100) feet of
buffer yard. The requirements of a buffer yard may be satisfied by any one (1)
of the options illustrated. The plant unit multiplier is a factor by which the
basic number of plant materials required for a given buffer yard is determined
given a change in the width of that yard. The type and quantity of plant
materials required by each buffer yard and each buffer yard option are
specified by the following illustrations. Each illustration depicts the total
buffer yard located between two (2) uses. Whenever a wall, fence or berm is
required within a buffer yard, these are shown as structures in the following
illustrations wherein their respective specifications are also shown.
      (B)   The exact placement of required plants and structures shall be the
decision of the developer except that evergreen (or conifer) plant materials
shall be planted in clusters rather than singly in order to maximize their
chances of survival.
      (C)   All buffer yard areas shall be seeded with lawn grass or suitable
ground cover.
5-5-21-6   Buffer Yard Substitutions.
      The following plant material substitutions shall satisfy the requirements
of this ordinance.
      (A)   Evergreen canopy or evergreen understory trees may be substituted
as follows:
         (1)   In the case of deciduous canopy forest trees, up to a maximum of
fifty percent (50%) of the total number of canopy trees otherwise required;
         (2)   Evergreen canopy or evergreen understory trees may be
substituted for deciduous understory trees and deciduous shrubs, without
limitations.
      (B)   In all buffer yards, evergreen or conifer shrubs may be substituted
for deciduous shrubs without limitation.
      (C)   Any existing plant material which otherwise satisfies the
requirements of this section may be counted toward satisfying all such
requirements.
      (D)   Structures, where required, may be substituted with approval of the
Planning Commission.
5-5-21-7   Use of Buffer Yards.
   A buffer yard may be used for passive recreation; however, no plant material
may be removed.
5-5-21-8   Buffer Yards Part of Required Yards.
      Where front, side and rear yards are required by this ordinance buffer
yards may be established within such required yards.
5-5-21-9   Minimum Plant Size.
      (A)   Plants shall be sufficiently sized to insure buffering and
screening at the time of installation. Where the bufferyard illustrations
indicate a mass or line of plants paralleling the length of the property line,
the plant materials shall be sufficiently sized to insure obscurity at the time
of installation. However, seedling plants may be used where berms or structures
are required as part of the buffer yard, or where the proposed use is
contiguous to a street or vacant land.
      (B)   The following table shall serve as a guide for determining minimum
plant size.
Planting in Buffer yards Abutting
Plant Material Type Vacant Lands, Fences, Berms All Other Plantings
Planting in Buffer yards Abutting
Plant Material Type              Vacant Lands, Fences, All Other Plantings
                                 Berms
Canopy tree     Single stem      1-1/2 inch caliper    2-1/2 inch caliper
                Multi-stem clump 6 feet (height)       10 feet (height)
Understory tree                  4 feet (height)       1-1/2 inch caliper
Evergreen tree                   3 feet (height)       5 feet (height)
Shrub           Deciduous        15 inches (height)    24 inches (height)
                Evergreen        12 inches (height)    18 inches (height)
 
5-5-21-10   Required Maintenance.
      The maintenance of required buffer yards shall be the responsibility of
the property owner. And all such yards shall be properly maintained so as to
assure continued buffering. Dead trees shall be removed; debris and litter
shall be cleaned; and berms, fences, and walls shall be maintained at all
times. Failure to do so is a violation of this ordinance, and may be remedied
by the zoning administrator in the manner prescribed for other violations.
5-5-21-11   Clear Cutting of Buffer Yards Prohibited.
      Clear cutting of trees and natural vegetation occupying a bufferyard at
the time of construction shall be prohibited. All trees eight (8) inches or
more in diameter, measured three (3) feet from the base shall be retained, and
the bufferyard shall remain in its natural state to the extent that the natural
vegetation provides equal or better buffering than the requirements of this
article. The removal of any vegetation exceeding eight (8) inches in diameter
must be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
Table of Buffer Yard Requirements
         Existing Adjacent Land Use
        Single    Town houses, Motels,                   Religious,
        and       multiplexes, group     Mobile Stables, education, Office and                          Vacant        All
Proposed duplex    apartments,  quarters, home   barns,   recreatio, institutional Commercial Industrial land   Street other
Land Use dwellings etc.         etc.      parks  etc.     nursing
                                                          homes
Table of Buffer Yard Requirements
              Existing Adjacent Land Use
             Single    Town houses, Motels,                   Religious,
             and       multiplexes, group     Mobile Stables, education, Office and                          Vacant        All
Proposed Land duplex    apartments,  quarters, home   barns,   recreatio, institutional Commercial Industrial land   Street other
Use           dwellings etc.         etc.      parks  etc.     nursing
                                                               homes
Office and    D         D            *         B      *        B          *             *          *          A      A      A
Institutional
Commercial
Buildings,    D         D            *         B      *        B          *             *          *          A      A      A
Uses and
Parking Lots
Industrial    F         F            D         D      *        E          B             B          *          B      B      B
Uses1
All other
uses, not     D         D            B         B      *        B          *             *          *          A      A      A
specifically
identified
Single-family
detached
residence,    *         *            *         *      *        *          *             *          *          *      *      *
individual
mobile homes
and duplexes
Townhouses,
multiplexes,
apartments    D         *            B         C      *        B          B             B          B          A      A      A
and other
residential
uses
Motels,
rooming
houses,       D         C            B         C      *        B          *             *          *          A      A      A
lodges and
group
quarters
Manufactured
home parks or E         E            C         *      *        C          B             B          B          A      A      A
courts, RV
Parks
Stables,
barns, animal F         F            D         D      *        D          C             C          C          B      B      C
pens, etc.
Religious,
recreation,
education,
child care    C         C            B         C      *        *          A             A          B          A      A      A
facilities
and nursing
homes
* No buffer yard required.
1 Permitted uses in the ICP District
 
§ 5-5-22 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Natural Gas. When gas lines are to be located in a road right-of-way,
where possible, such lines shall be located outside the portion of the road to
be surfaced to prevent having to cut into the paved surface to serve abutting
properties.
   (B)   Water Supply. If a water system is installed in a subdivision, water
mains valves, and fire hydrants shall be installed according to plans and
specifications approved by the City of Dillon Public Works Director and DHEC.
When the water line is located in a road right-of-way and it will be necessary
to cut into the road surface to serve the abutting lots, a connection shall be
stubbed out to the property line to serve each lot prior to surfacing the road.
         (1)   After approval of a preliminary subdivision plat by the City of
Dillon Planning Commission for proposed development of property for residential
detached single-family dwellings, and prior to receiving a final subdivision
plat approval, If and when a public water main is located within one-thousand
(1,000) feet of said property being subdivided as a major subdivision as
defined in
Title 5,
Chapter 5, Article C, §
5-5-11 of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances, then the city shall provide
the labor and pay all costs related to city engineering fees for extension and
installation of the public water main made by city employees in the public
rights-of-way to and within the proposed detached single-family dwelling major
subdivision; provided, however, that the developer shall make provisions
beforehand to supply all construction materials to the city and pay all costs
and expenses (excluding city labor and city engineering costs) incurred with
the construction, extension and installation of the city’s public water main to
and within the proposed detached single-family dwelling major subdivision.
         (2)   For all types of major subdivisions as defined in
Title 5,
Chapter 5, Article C, §
5-5-11 of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances (excluding detached single-
family dwellings major subdivisions), the developer shall install water main
lines at their own expense to the undeveloped land and be responsible for all
associated costs in accordance with plans and specifications which must first
be approved by the City of Dillon Public Works Director and DHEC.
         (3)   The developer shall be required to connect to the system for the
purpose of providing a central water supply system capable of providing for
domestic water use and fire protection to the subdivision. Where the accessible
public main is six (6) inches or greater in diameter, distribution lines shall
be at least six (6) inches except along permanent cul-de-sacs or circles less
than one thousand (1,000) feet in length where smaller lines may be permissible
if approved by the appropriate utility entity.
(Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-11-2005)
   (C)   Sanitary Sewerage. If a sanitary sewer is installed in a subdivision,
sanitary sewers shall be installed according to the plans and specifications
approved by the City of Dillon Public Works Director and DHEC. When the sewer
line is located in a road right-of-way and it will be necessary to cut into the
road surface to serve the abutting lots, a connection shall be stubbed out to
the property line to serve each lot prior to surfacing the road.
         (1)   After approval of a preliminary subdivision plat by the City of
Dillon Planning Commission for proposed development of property for residential
detached single-family dwellings, and prior to receiving a final subdivision
plat approval, If and when a sanitary sewer system is located within one
thousand (1,000) feet of said property being subdivided as a major subdivision
as defined in
Title 5,
Chapter 5, Article C, §
5-5-11 of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances, then the city shall provide
the labor and pay all costs related to city engineering fees for extension and
installation of a sanitary sewer system made by city employees in the public
rights-of-way to and within proposed detached single-family dwelling major
subdivisions; provided however, that the developer shall make provisions
beforehand to supply all construction materials to the city and pay all costs
and expenses (excluding city labor and city engineering costs) incurred with
the construction, extension and installation of the city’s sanitary sewer
system to and within the proposed detached single-family dwelling major
subdivision.
         (2)   For all types of major subdivisions as defined in
Title 5,
Chapter 5, Article C, §
5-5-11 of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances (excluding detached single-
family dwellings major subdivisions), the developer shall install sanitary
sewer lines at their own expense to the undeveloped land and be responsible for
all associated costs in accordance with plans and specifications which must
first be approved by the City of Dillon Public Works Director and DHEC.
         (3)   The subdivider shall be required to connect to the system for
the purpose of providing a central sanitary sewerage system capable of
providing domestic sewerage facilities to the subdivision.
         (4)   All other types of major subdivisions undeveloped land, outside
but contiguous to the city limits of Dillon shall annex said property into the
city limits prior to property being subdivided as a major subdivision as
defined in
Title 5,
Chapter 5, Article C, §
5-5-11 of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances.
         (5)   The owner or owners of undeveloped land, outside but not
contiguous to the city limits of Dillon desiring to extend the city’s public
water mains and/or sanitary sewer system to and within a new subdivision must
do so at the expense of the developer in accordance with plans and
specifications which must first be approved by the City of Dillon Public Works
Director and DHEC.
(Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-11-2005)
   (D)   Sewage Disposal. Prior to the construction of any community sewage
disposal system, the location, size, plans, and specifications of such a
facility shall be approved by the City of Dillon Public Works Director and
DHEC.
   (E)   Road Grading and Surfacing.  Road grading, base preparation and
surfacing shall be carried out by a subdivider in a manner which shall be
acceptable to the appropriate state and local governing authorities. Following
approval of a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, all contractors
undertaking road grading and surfacing improvements shall first obtain
applicable local and state permits prior to commencing such improvements.
   (F)   Storm Drainage. A storm water drainage system composed of natural and
man-made elements shall be designed by persons licensed by the South Carolina
Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors and
constructed by the developer so as to prevent loss of life and/or property
damage due to runoff from any foreseeable rainfall event. Also, the system
shall be designed and constructed so as to provide an acceptable degree of
access to all properties during and following frequent rainfall events. All
plans and specifications shall be approved by the City of Dillon Building and
Zoning Department.
   (G)   Road Name. Road name signs which meet city specifications shall be
installed by the subdivider at all intersections within a subdivision prior to
final plat approval. The location and design shall be approved by the
appropriate city official.
   (H)   Road Maintenance. Where subdivision roads are not to be dedicated to
the state or city for public maintenance, subdividers shall install and
maintain signs that meet city specifications at the beginning of the private
subdivision roads which state State/City Maintenance Ends. All required signs
must be installed prior to final plat approval.
   (I)   Lot Arrangement. the lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with health
regulations and in providing driveway access to buildings on such lots from an
approved road.
   (J)   Lot Drainage. Lots shall be laid out, in accordance with the Southern
Standard Building Code, so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm water from each lot to adjacent lots.
§ 5-5-23 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to establish a long term
vegetative cover over all disturbed areas within any road rights-of-way in any
subdivision falling under the jurisdiction of this ordinance. Establishment of
long term vegetative cover shall, at a minimum, consist of:
   (A)   The least amount of tillage necessary to break compaction, incorporate
lime and fertilizers where appropriate, and allow the proper placement of seed,
sprigs, or plants.
   (B)   Uniformly planting suitable long term grasses and/or legumes by
drilling, broadcasting, or hydroseeding. Trees, shrubs, and vines may be
planted where appropriate.
   (C)   Application of suitable mulch material to provide necessary additional
protection against erosion and/or to aid in the establishment of permanent
plant cover.
   (D)   Comply with the applicable state or local regulations.
§ 5-5-24 LOT IMPROVEMENTS.
5-5-24-1   Lot Arrangements.
      The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with Health Regulations and
in providing driveway access to buildings on such lots from an approved road.
5-5-24-2   Lot Lines.
      Except where circumstances such as topography, water course, road
alignment, or existing site boundary configuration dictate otherwise, the
following requirements shall be effective:
      (A)   Lots shall be laid out with four (4) sides, each composed of an
uninterrupted straight or curved line.
      (B)   Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight roads and radial to curved roads.
5-5-24-3   Lot Size and Width.
      Minimum lot area and width at the building line shall be as shown in the
applicable zoning district classification as stated in the City of Dillon
Zoning Ordinance.
5-5-24-4   Building Lines.
      Building setback lines shall be as stated in the City of Dillon Zoning
Ordinance.
5-5-24-5   Access to Lots.
      Every lot shall have at least twenty five (25) feet of access on an
existing public road or new public or private road. This access may be provided
by an easement upon approval by the City of Dillon Planning Commission.
5-5-24-6   Lot Drainage.
      Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm water from each lot to adjacent lots.
5-5-24-7   Waterbodies and Watercourses.
      If a tract being subdivided contains a water body, or portion thereof,
lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute the entire ownership of the water
body among all adjacent lots. The Planning Commission may approve an
alternative plan whereby the ownership of and the responsibility for safe
maintenance of the water body is so placed that it will not become a local
government responsibility. The minimum area of a lot required under this
ordinance may not be satisfied by land which is under water. Where a
watercourse separates lot buildable area from the road providing access, an
engineer's certified structure shall be provided.
5-5-24-8   Easements.
      Easements having a minimum width of at least ten (10) feet and located
along the front side or rear lot lines shall be provided as required for
utility lines and underground mains and cables.
5-5-24-9   Flag Lots.
      (A)   The subdivision of flag lots may be approved by the City of Dillon
Planning Commission where circumstances such as topography, water course, road
alignment, or existing site boundary configuration do not permit the
subdivision of uniformly shaped lots. Flag lots will not be approved in order
to avoid the construction of roads in accordance with this ordinance.
      (B)   Where the subdivision of flag lots is approved by the Planning
Commission, all such lots must have a minimum of twenty five (25) feet of
access on an existing public road or new public or private road. All lots must
be a minimum of one (1) acre and there must be at least one thousand (1,000)
feet between access corridors.
§ 5-5-25 BLOCKS.
5-5-25-1   Residential Block Length.
      In order that there may be convenient access between various parts of a
subdivision and in order to help prevent traffic congestion and undue
inconvenience, the length of blocks hereafter established shall not exceed
eighteen hundred (1,800) feet and shall not be less than six hundred (600)
feet; provided, however, that such length may be modified when appropriate due
to the topography or physical shape of the property being subdivided.
5-5-25-2   Residential Block Width.
      Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two (2) tiers of lots. Blocks
may be one (1) lot in depth at the boundary of the subdivision, or where
single-tier lots are required to separate residential development from through
vehicular traffic or nonresidential uses.
§ 5-5-26 ROADS.
5-5-26-1   Design Standards.
      Any new road constructed in the City of Dillon must meet South Carolina
Department of Transportation Road Design Standards and be approved by the City
of Dillon Code Enforcement Department on a case by case basis. These roads are
to be submitted to the City of Dillon Planning Commission for their approval as
outlined in the plan approval process. The Planning Commission may elect to
recommend acceptance for maintenance to the City Council. The City Council
makes final decisions on road acceptance.
ARTICLE F: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 5-5-31 SHOPPING CENTER STANDARDS.
5-5-31-1   Application Procedure.
      Each application for a planned shopping center shall be considered for
approval by the Planning Commission. The application shall be accompanied by a
plan of the proposed shopping center development at a scale of not less than
one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet showing the following:
      (A)   The location and size of the site;
      (B)   The dimensions of the property;
      (C)   The location and proposed use of the buildings, and their exterior
dimensions;
      (D)   A traffic, parking, and circulation plan, showing proposed
locations, arrangements, and dimensions of parking spaces, loading areas, and
drives, and ingress and egress from the adjacent streets;
      (E)   The proposed location and materials to be used for screening;
      (F)   The landscaping plan;
      (G)   The location of all signs including dimensions;
      (H)   A plan for permanent drainage facilities and for sedimentation
control during construction;
      (I)   A title block, showing the name and address of the developer(s),
the date, the scale of the plan, and the name of the individual or firm
preparing the plan;
      (J)   Location of all proposed and existing utilities.
5-5-31-2   Building Permits.
      No building permit or zoning permit shall be issued for any building in a
shopping center until the development plan shall have been approved by the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall approve or deny the
application within sixty (60) days of the submission of the complete
application.
5-5-31-3   Buffer Yards.
      Buffer yards shall be established and maintained by the developer or
owner in compliance with this ordinance.
§ 5-5-32 MULTI-FAMILY PROJECT STANDARDS.
   A Multi-Family Housing development consists of two (2) or more structures or
units on a parcel of land which has not been subdivided into customary streets
and lots and is in a single ownership. These projects, including apartments and
condominiums, should have a unified design of buildings and a coordinated
organization of open space and service areas. Multi-family housing is allowed
in the R-7 and R-5 zones. The following standards shall apply:
5-5-32-1   Minimum Standards.
      The minimum total area of a multi-family project shall be no less than
two (2) acres. No building shall exceed the height limitation for the district
in which it is located. Each building in the multi-family project shall be
located and constructed so that it shall meet the required front, side, and
rear yard setbacks from external lot lines for the district in which the
project is located. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of this ordinance.
5-5-32-2   Street Access.
      Any building established in connection with a group housing development
which does not face directly on a public street shall be provided with access
to a public street.
5-5-32-3   Application Procedure.
      Applications for multi-family projects shall be submitted for approval to
the Planning Commission and shall include the following information and any
reasonable additional information requested:
      (A)   The location and size of the site;
      (B)   The density of land use proposed for various parts of the site;
      (C)   The location and size of the common areas, if any, and the charter
of any organization proposed to own and maintain the common areas, if any;
      (D)   Use and height, bulk, and location of buildings and other
structures;
      (E)   Copy of covenants, if any, or other restrictions proposed to be
imposed upon the use of land, buildings, and structures, including proposed
easements or grants for public utilities;
      (F)   The location and width of proposed paved streets, other public
ways, and private drives, and the provisions for parking vehicles;
      (G)   The type and location of residential and other buildings;
      (H)   A schedule showing the proposed schedule for construction of the
development;
      (I)   A landscaping plan;
      (J)   A plan for permanent drainage facilities and for sedimentation
control during construction;
      (K)   A title block, showing the name and address of the developer(s),
the date, the scale of the plan, and the name of the individual or firm
preparing the plan.
5-5-32-4   Buffer Yards.
      Buffer yards shall be established and maintained by the developer or
owner in compliance with this ordinance.
5-5-32-5   General Conditions.
      Before approving a multi-family development, the Planning Commission
shall determine the following:
      (A)   The spirit of these regulations shall not be violated;
      (B)   The proposed development will harmonize with the existing
development in adjacent areas; and
      (C)   The proposed development will be a desirable addition to the
physical pattern of the urban area.
5-5-32-6   Permits.
      No building or zoning permits may be issued until the proposed multi-
family development plan is approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall approve or disapprove the application within sixty (60) days
from the submission of the complete application.
§ 5-5-33 MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME PARKS.
5-5-33-1   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot or lots under one ownership used,
designed, or intended to be used for the purpose of supplying parking spaces
for occupied manufactured homes and which includes buildings, structures, or
enclosures used or intended to be used as a part of such park. Sales or storage
lots for unoccupied manufactured homes are not considered to be manufactured
home parks.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME SPACE. The total area reserved for the exclusive
use of the occupants of a manufactured home.
   PROPERTY LINE. The recorded boundary of a manufactured home park.
5-5-33-2   Development Standards.
      In any district in which manufactured home parks are permitted, the
minimum standards listed below shall apply.
      (A)   Area.
         The minimum area for a manufactured home park shall be five (5) acres.
The maximum number of manufactured homes per acre shall not exceed six (6). The
minimum area for a manufactured home space shall be five thousand (5,000)
square feet.
      (B)   Driveways and Parking.
         Driveway and parking requirements include:
         (1)   No manufactured home in a park shall have direct access to a
public street or highway. All homes shall abut upon a private driveway that has
a minimum roadway width of twenty-four (24) feet. Such driveway shall have
access to a public street.
         (2)   All driveways shall be paved to the most current standards
recognized by the State of South Carolina.
         (3)   In the event a driveway is not a through street, it shall allow
a method of vehicular turn around, such as a cul-de-sac, that is exclusive of
required parking spaces.
         (4)   Two (2) off-street paved automobile parking spaces shall be
provided for each manufactured home. These areas should be located on or
adjacent to the manufactured home space. Parking areas may be located along one
side of a private driveway within the park if such driveway is at least thirty-
two (32) feet wide, and along both sides if the driveway is at least forty (40)
feet wide. Vertical or battered concrete curb or other appropriate and durable
car stops shall be installed at the end of each head-in parking space.
         (5)   Entrances to the manufactured home park shall be from a public
road. The number of entrances shall not exceed one (1) per one hundred fifty
(150) feet of frontage on the public road.
5-5-33-3   Setbacks and Clearances.
      Minimum setback and clearance requirements are established as follows:
      (A)   All manufactured homes and all buildings or structures within a
manufactured home park shall have a minimum setback of twenty (20) feet from
the park's side or rear property line and shall have a front yard setback of at
least twenty-five (25) feet.
      (B)   Manufactured homes shall be situated on each space so that a
minimum setback of at least fifteen (15) feet exists between the manufactured
home and any abutting driveway.
      (C)   There shall be at least twenty (20) feet between adjacent
manufactured homes. No manufactured home or any accessory structure, such as an
individual storage facility, may be erected within four (4) feet of any
manufactured home space line or within twenty (20) feet of any common
buildings, such as offices or laundry facilities. Placement must be in
compliance with these regulations or current regulations outlined in the
Southern Standard Building Codes.
5-5-33-4   Buffer Yards and Improvements.
      Standards for buffer yards and improvements include:
      (A)   Buffer yards shall be established and maintained by the developer
or owner in compliance with this ordinance.
      (B)   Construction of the required drives, utilities, and other
improvements shall be completed for at least ten (10) manufactured home spaces
before any part of the park may be occupied.
5-5-33-5   Site Plan.
      An application for a permit to develop a manufactured home park shall be
filed with the Planning Commission. This application, together with a site plan
drawn at a scale of one (1) inch to forty (40) feet or larger, shall show the
following:
      (A)   The total park area, including the shape and dimensions of the site
and a north arrow;
      (B)   The location and dimensions of proposed driveways, entrances,
exits, and walkways;
      (C)   The location and dimensions of manufactured home spaces, stands,
parking areas, and buildings serving the park;
      (D)   The plan of sewage disposal, water supply, gas and electrical
supply. The developer is responsible for the installation of all utility
services, to the standards specified by the City of Dillon or other provider;
      (E)   The lighting plan;
      (F)   The location and number of refuse receptacles, along with adequate
screening;
      (G)   The location of any proposed recreation or open space areas; and
      (H)   The park screening and landscaping plan; and
      (I)   A title block, showing the name and address of the developer(s),
the date, the scale of the plan, and the name of the individual or firm
preparing the plan.
      The Code Enforcement Director and Planning Commission shall review the
site plan and application for manufactured home park for compliance with these
regulations. The Commission shall approve or disapprove the application within
sixty (60) days of the submission of the complete application. No zoning or
building permit shall be issued until the application for manufactured home
park has been approved by the Planning Commission.
§ 5-5-34 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (RV PARK).
   In any district in which recreational vehicle parks are permitted, the
minimum standards listed below shall apply.
   (A)   All traffic roads throughout the park shall be paved to the current
minimum state specifications as stated in §
5-5-26 of this ordinance.
   (B)   All roads must be posted as private. No such road will be accepted by
the City of Dillon for maintenance.
   (C)   All sites for recreational vehicles shall be a minimum of ten (10)
feet wide by forty (40) feet long with a six (6) inch gravel base.
   (D)   Each space shall be provided with a six (6) feet wide by ten (10) feet
long concrete pad for entrance and patio with a picnic table and cookout pit.
   (E)   A sixteen (16) feet grass area between parking spaces with at least
one (1) small tree per open space.
   (F)   Walking trail for animals around edge of park.
   (G)   Water, sewer and two types of electrical connections shall be provided
for each space; located at the right rear of each parking space, but not
located within the parking space as seen from the entrance road.
   (H)   All utilities shall be located underground.
   (I)   Street lights shall be provided.
   (J)   An RV park facility building shall be provided with these minimum
requirements--his and hers restrooms; his and hers shower rooms with four (4)
stalls per unit; a laundry room with two (2) washers and driers.
   (K)   Buffer yards in compliance with §
5-5-21 of this ordinance.
   (L)   RV parks allowed for transient use only as defined by this ordinance.
   (M)   No RV shall be located in the same park for more than ninety (90) days
within a one hundred and eighty (180) day period regardless of a change in
location within the park.
   (N)   No RV shall be placed in the park for rental purposes.
   (O)   No camping tents allowed in park.
   (P)   Must meet all Standard Building Codes regardless of the number of
spaces.
§ 5-5-35 CLUSTER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section of this ordinance to allow cluster
housing (detached single-family dwellings) in those areas appropriate to such
use, subject to conditions and safeguards which will promote the purpose of
zoning and the City of Dillon Comprehensive Plan for single family use. Cluster
housing developments shall have a common entrance and provide savings in
infrastructure installation, land resources, and energy, through the
concentration of dwellings, construction and physical impact to specific areas
of a tract made possible by variation in lot size, shape, and orientation. The
principle purpose of residential clustering is to encourage more open space in
new developments by allowing individually owned lots to be smaller in exchange
for the provision of permanent open space or undeveloped land.
   (B)   DETACHED CLUSTER HOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit which has no
common wall with any other building other than an accessory structure.
   (C)   Cluster housing developments containing single-family detached
dwelling units are allowed in the R-5, R-7, MH, and B-2 Districts as principle
permitted uses after approval of the Cluster Housing Development Plan by the
Planning Commission.
   (D)   Cluster housing developments containing single-family detached
dwelling units are allowed in the R-12 District only as a conditional permitted
use, after approval of the Cluster Housing Development Plan by the Planning
Commission.
5-5-35-1   Conditional Uses Within the R-12 District. Factors considered for
conditional use would include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (A)   Location of site.
      (B)   Size of site.
      (C)   Masonry fencing requirement with a minimum height of six (6) feet
or masonry/wood combination.
      (D)   Special tree screening and landscaping.
      (E)   Proposed amenities.
5-5-35-2   Minimum Standards.
      The minimum total area of a cluster housing development shall be no less
than two (2) acres within an R-12 District and no less than one and one-half
(1-1/2) acres within the R-7, R-5, MH, and B-2 Districts.
      (A)   The minimum house size shall be no less than nine hundred (900)
square feet.
      (B)   No building shall exceed the height limitation for the district in
which it is located.
      (C)   Each building in the cluster housing development shall be located
and constructed so that it shall meet the same setbacks from public street
rights-of way as required for the district in which the development is located.
      (D)   Minimum spacing between single-family detached dwellings and
accessory buildings shall be no less than twenty (20) feet.
5-5-35-3   Application Procedure.
      Applications for cluster housing development shall be submitted for
approval to the Planning Commission and shall include the following information
and any reasonable information requested:
      (A)   The location and size of the site.
      (B)   The density of land use proposed for various parts of the site.
      (C)   The location and size of the common open space areas and the
charter of any organization proposed to own and maintain the common open space
areas.
      (D)   Use and height, bulk, and location of buildings and other
structures.
      (E)   A copy of covenants, if any, or other restrictions proposed to be
imposed upon the use of land, buildings, and structures, including proposed
easements or grants for public utilities.
      (F)   The location and width of proposed paved streets, other public
ways, and private drives, and the provisions for parking vehicles.
      (G)   The type and location of residential and other buildings.
      (H)   A schedule showing the proposed schedule for construction of the
development.
      (I)   A landscaping plan.
      (J)   A plan for permanent drainage facilities and for sedimentation
control during construction.
      (K)   A title block, showing the name and address of the developer(s),
the date, the scale of the plan, and the name of the individual or firm
preparing the plan.
      (L)   The Planning Commission may require additional information if there
is a need.
5-5-35-4   Plat Approval.
      Subdivision for Cluster Housing Developments shall be processed under the
procedures as outlined within
Chapter 5, Article D, Platting Requirements and Standards, §§
5-5-16 through
5-5-17-8.
5-5-35-5   Off-Street Parking Facilities.
      (A)   Off-street parking facilities provided in accordance with the
provisions for the district in which it is located.
      (B)   Off-street parking facilities established in connection with such
developments shall be of such design, location, and arrangement that will not
interfere with the efficient flow of traffic through the area and that will not
interfere with the access of emergency or service vehicles.
5-5-35-6   Street Access.
      (A)   Any building established in connection with such cluster housing
development which cannot properly be served by emergency or service vehicles
from an abutting street shall be made accessible to such vehicles by a paved
road, exclusive of parking spaces.
      (B)   The developer is required to pay for the paving of streets whether
public or private. The paving of streets, whether public or intended to be
owned by the homeowners association must meet the requirements of South
Carolina Department of Transportation road design standards. These roads are to
be submitted to the City of Dillon Planning Commission for their approval as
outlined in the plan approval process. The Planning Commission may elect to
recommend acceptance for maintenance to the City Council. The City Council
makes final decisions on road acceptance.
5-5-35-7   Buffer Yard.
      Buffer yards shall be established and maintained by the developer or
owner in compliance with the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations.
5-5-35-8   Common Open Space.
      (A)   (1) For purposes of this section, open space is defined as that
land area devoted to common use by all the homeowners, exclusive of parking
areas, streets, and street right-of-ways, which is designed to meet the primary
objective of supplying open space or recreational needs.
         (2)   Minimum open space is as follows:
 
Minimum Common Open Space
Zoning District Percent of land in open Space to Total lot Area
R-12, B-2       30%
R-7             20%
R-5             15%
MH              10%
 
      (B)   Maintenance of open space. Recreation areas designated for use by
the residents of the cluster housing development shall be maintained either by
the developer in perpetuity through a document executed and recorded to that
effect, or by a homeowners association to be set up by a developer in accord
with and chartered by the state under the applicable regulations. Such
association charter or declaration of incorporation shall be submitted with the
development plan for approval by the Planning Commission and shall be recorded
along with the development plat(s) with the Registrar of Deeds.
5-5-35-9   General Conditions.
      Before approving a cluster housing development, the Planning Commission
shall determine the following:
      (A)   The spirit of these regulations shall not be violated;
      (B)   The proposed development will harmonize with the existing
development in adjacent areas, and
      (C)   The proposed development will be a desirable addition to the
physical pattern of the urban area.
5-5-35-10   Permits.
      No building or zoning permits may be issued until the proposed cluster
housing development plan is approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall approve or disapprove the application within sixty (60) days
from the submission of the complete application.
(Ord. 01-13, passed 9-10-2001; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 5-5-36 TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section of the ordinance to encourage and
regulate the erection of townhouse dwelling units in R-12, R-7, R-5, MH and B-
2 Districts, subject to conditions and safeguards which will promote the
purpose of zoning and the City of Dillon Comprehensive Plan for one-family
attached dwellings, known as townhouses.
   (B)   Townhouse developments are allowed in the R-12 district only as a
conditional permitted use, after approval of the townhouse development plan by
the Planning Commission.
5-5-36-1   Conditional Uses with in the R-12 District.
      (A)   Factors considered for conditional use would include, but not be
limited to, the following:
         (1)   Location of site.
         (2)   Size of site.
         (3)   Masonry fencing requirement with a minimum height of six (6)
feet or masonry/wood combination.
         (4)   Special tree screening and landscaping.
         (5)   Proposed amenities.
      (B)   Townhouses Defined.
         One of a series of three (3) or more attached single-family dwelling
units, usually of two (2) and sometimes three (3) stories, separated by a
common sidewall and/or property line.
      (C)   General Standards for Townhouses.
         (1)   The minimum lot site of a townhouse development prior to re-
subdivision of the project into lots of record shall be no less than two (2)
acres within an R-12 district and one and one-half (1-1/2) acres within an R-7,
R-5, MIL and B-2 district. Each building in the townhouse development shall be
located and constructed so that it shall meet the required front, side, and
rear yard setbacks from external lot lines for the district in which the
project is located.
         (2)   After re-subdivision, the minimum lot size shall be one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) square feet. Each building in the townhouse development
shall be located and constructed so that it shall meet the required front yard
setback from the public street right-of-way as required for the district in
which the development is located.
 
                                                   Where side yards are
Lot width requirements Eighteen (18) feet minimum  required, the minimum lot
                                                   width shall be increased
                                                   accordingly
                       Zero if parking is provided Twenty (20) feet if parking
Front yard depth       in the rear yard or in a    is provided in the front
                       common area                 yard
                       A side yard at least ten    however, that when the side
                       (10) feet in width shall be lot line is a street line or
Side yard width        provided between the end    driveway, the side yard
                       units of a row and a side   adjacent to such street
                       lot line                    shall be at least twenty-
                                                   five (25) feet wide
                       Minimum shall be twenty     however, when required
                       (20) feet from the main     vehicular parking space is
Rear yard depth        building line excluding     provided in the rear yard,
                       attached or detached        minimum rear yard depth
                       accessory buildings, or     shall be thirty (30) feet
                       covered patio area
The minimum townhouse size shall be no less than one thousand (1,000) square
feet
No building shall exceed the height limitation for the district in which it is
located
 
         (3)   Townhouse dwelling units shall be separated from each other by a
two (2) hour fire partition wall extending from the lowest floor level to the
roof, constructed according to the Building Code for the City of Dillon and
having no openings therein. Where a separation between the firewall is
provided, such separation shall be positively sealed in a manner which is
permanently watertight and vermin proof.
         (4)   Not more than six (6) contiguous townhouses and not fewer than
three (3) shall be built in a row with approximately the same, but staggered
front line. The staggering of the units may be singly or in pairs but must be
not less than two (2) feet.
      (D)   Accessory Buildings. In addition to a carport or a garage, an
accessory building shall be permitted in the rear yard provided it does not
exceed one hundred (100) square feet in gross floor area and twelve (12) feet
in height, and any such accessory building shall be constructed of materials
similar to or in keeping with the principle building. The partition wall and
walls between such structures shall comply with the requirements of the
Building Code.
         (1)   No portion of a townhouse or accessory structure in or related
to one (1) group of contiguous town houses shall be closer than twenty (20)
feet to any portion of a townhouse or accessory structure related to another
building outside the townhouse area.
         (2)   Minimum spacing between single-family detached dwellings and
accessory buildings shall be no less than twenty (20) feet.
      (E)   Special Requirements.
         (1)   The rear yard of such dwellings, except that portion used for
automobile parking and driveways shall be separated by a fence or wall for a
minimum distance of eight (8) feet from the rear main building line. Such fence
or wall shall be of brick, masonry, or other material having a life expectancy
of not less than ten (10) years. The minimum height of such fence or wall shall
be six (6) feet.
         (2)   All yard areas used for the drying of clothes shall be screened
from view of the street and from adjoining yards and lots.
      (F)   Private Drives.
         (1)   Private drives are interior circulation roads designed and
constructed to carry vehicular traffic from public streets within or adjoining
the site to terminal parking areas and service areas. The design and
arrangement of private drives shall be subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission.
         (2)   Private drives for ingress and egress to a townhouse development
shall be a minimum width of twenty (20) feet for two (2) way traffic and a
minimum width of twelve (12) feet where one-way traffic is planned. Under
special circumstances, the Planning & Zoning Commission may require more than
the above minimum widths. All paving shall meet the design requirements of the
South Carolina Department of Highways and Public Transportation and shall be
installed and paid for by the developer.
      (G)   Off- Street Parking Facilities.
         (1)   Each townhouse dwelling unit shall have minimum of two (2) off-
street parking spaces. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions for the district in which it is located.
         (2)   Off-street parking facilities established in connection with
such developments shall be of such design, location and arrangement that will
not interfere with the efficient flow of traffic through the area and that will
not interfere with the access of emergency or service vehicles.
      (H)   Street Access.
         (1)   Any building established in connection with such townhouse
developments which cannot properly be served by emergency or service vehicles
from an abutting street shall be made accessible to such vehicles by a paved
road, exclusive of parking spaces.
         (2)   The developer is required to pay for the paving of streets
whether public or private. The paving of streets, whether public or intended to
be owned by the homeowners' association, must meet the requirements of South
Carolina Department of Transportation Road Design Standards. These roads are to
be submitted to the City of Dillon Planning Commission for their approval as
outlined in the plan approval process. The Planning Commission may elect to
recommend acceptance for maintenance to the City Council. The City Council
makes final decisions on road acceptance.
      (I)   Utilities and Services.
         (1)   Each townhouse shall be independently served by separate
heating, air-conditioning, sewer, water, electric power, gas, and other
facility and utility services, whenever such utilities and services are
provided; and no townhouse shall be in any way dependent upon such services or
utility lines located within another unit, or on, or in another townhouse site,
except as may be installed in public easements. All townhouses must be
connected to the city public water and sewer lines.
         (2)   All common driveways, parking areas, open spaces or other
amenities shall have provision for perpetual maintenance by the participating
property owners.
      (J)   Buffer Yard.
         Buffer yards shall be established and maintained by the developer or
owner in compliance with the City of Dillon Land Development Regulations.
      (K)   Common Open.
         (1)   For purposes of this section, open space is defined as that land
area devoted to common use by all the homeowners, exclusive of parking areas,
streets and street rights-of-way, which is designed to meet the primary
objective of supplying open space or recreational needs.
         (2)   Maintenance of open space. Recreation areas designated for use
by the residents of the townhouse development shall be maintained either by the
developer in perpetuity through a document executed and recorded to that
effect, or by a homeowner's association to be set up by a developer in accord
with and charted by the state under the applicable regulations.
         (3)   Such association charter or declaration of incorporation shall
be submitted with the development plan for approval by the Planning Commission
and shall be recorded along with the development plat(s) with the Registrar of
Deeds.
      (L)   Application Procedure.
         Applications for townhouse developments shall be submitted for
approval to the Planning Commission and shall include the following information
and any reasonable information requested:
         (1)   The location and size of the site;
         (2)   The density of land use proposed for various parts of the site;
         (3)   The location and size of the common open space areas and the
charter of any organization proposed to own and maintain the common areas;
         (4)   Use and height, bulk, and location of buildings and other
structures;
         (5)   A copy of covenants, if any, or other restrictions proposed to
be imposed upon the use of land, buildings, and structures, including proposed
easements or grants for public utilities;
         (6)   The location and width of proposed paved streets, other public
ways, and private drives, and the provisions for parking vehicles;
         (7)   The type and location of residential and other building;
         (8)   A schedule showing the proposed schedule for construction of the
development;
         (9)   A landscaping plan;
         (10)   A plan for permanent drainage facilities and for sedimentation
control during construction;
         (11)     A title block, showing the name and address of the developer
(s), the date, the scale of the plan, and the name of the individual or firm
preparing the plan.
         (12)    The Planning Commission may require additional information if
there is a need.
      (M)   Plat Approval.
         Sub-divisions for Townhouse Developments shall be processed under the
procedures as outlined within
Chapter 5, Article D, Platting Requirements and Standards, §§
5-5-16 through
5-5-17-8.
      (N)   General Conditions.
         Before approving a townhouse development, the Planning Commission
shall determine the following:
         (1)   The spirit of these regulations shall not be violated;
         (2)   The proposed development will harmonize with the existing
development in adjacent areas; and
         (3)   The proposed development will be a desirable addition to the
physical pattern of the urban area.
      (O)   Permits.
         No building or zoning permits may be issued until the proposed
townhouse development plan is approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall approve or disapprove the application within sixty (60) days
from the submission of the completed application.
      (P)   Separability.
         If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct
and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion thereof.
(Ord. 01-20, passed 11-12-2001; Am. Ord. 02-10, passed 6-10-2002)
ARTICLE G: VARIANCES
§ 5-5-40 VARIANCES.
   (A)   When the subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations
would cause unnecessary hardship because of topographical or other physical
conditions unique to the site and in the opinion of the Planning Commission a
departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions, the
Commission may approve a variance. Any variance that is approved is required to
be entered in writing in the minutes of the Planning Commission along with the
reason for which such departure was justified.
   (B)   Except for public agencies, each applicant for a variance shall, at
the time of making application, pay a fee as established by City Council. The
City of Dillon will notify all adjoining property owners of the hearing. At the
hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   (C)   Applications for variances (or notarized consent statement) must be
signed by the property owner and filed by the first Thursday of the month in
order to be placed on that month's Planning Commission agenda. The Planning
Commission must decide on the variance within forty (40) days of the hearing.
   (D)   Any variance having been denied, shall not be resubmitted to the
Planning Commission for a period of one (1) year, unless conditions have
changed substantially, and the Board votes unanimously to rehear the matter.
ARTICLE H: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
§ 5-5-46 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any violation of these regulations shall be a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, is punishable as provided by law.
ARTICLE I: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 5-5-51 INTERPRETATION.
   The regulations expressed in this document shall be considered as the
minimum provisions for the protection of the health, safety, economy, good
order, appearance, convenience, and welfare of the general public.
§ 5-5-52 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS, ORDINANCES, REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the requirements made under authority of these regulations impose
higher standards than are required in any statute or local ordinance or
regulation, provisions of the regulations shall govern. Whenever the provisions
of any other statute or local ordinance or regulation impose higher standards
than are required by these regulations, the provisions of such statute or local
ordinance or regulation shall apply.
§ 5-5-53 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with any of the provisions
of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
§ 5-5-54 AMENDMENTS.
   The City of Dillon Council shall hold a public hearing on any proposed
amendment to these regulations, notice of which shall be given not less than
thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date and not more than forty-five (45)
days. A notice will also be published fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing.
The notices of hearing shall be made in a newspaper having general distribution
in the area of jurisdiction. Amendments shall be adopted by vote of the City
Council.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2464.bmp]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2467.bmp]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2470.bmp]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2473.bmp]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2476.bmp]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2479.bmp]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5142266a36dbc6e9bfea25b40c9b70d8611c0722/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2482.bmp]
CHAPTER 6: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Article I: General Provisions
   
5-6-1   Statutory Authorization
   
5-6-2   Findings of Fact
   
5-6-3   Statement of Purpose and Objectives
   
5-6-4   Lands to which this Chapter Applies
   
5-6-5   Establishment of Development Permit
   
5-6-6   Compliance
   
5-6-7   Interpretation
   
5-6-8   Partial Invalidity and Severability
   
5-6-9   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
   
5-6-10   Penalties for Violation
Article II: Definitions
   
5-6-15   Definitions
Article III: Administration
   
5-6-20   Designation of Local Floodplain Administrator
   
5-6-21   Adoption of Letter of Map Revisions (LOMR)
   
5-6-22   Development Permit and Certification Requirements
   
5-6-23   Duties and Responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator
   
5-6-24   Administrative Procedures
Article IV: Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
5-6-30   General Standards
   
5-6-31   Specific Standards
   
5-6-32   Standards for Streams without Established Base Flood Elevations and/or
Floodways
   
5-6-33   Standards for Streams with Established Base Flood Elevations but
without Floodways
   
5-6-34   Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO Zones)
   
5-6-35   Coastal High Hazard Areas (V-Zones)
Article V: Variance Procedures
   
5-6-40   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
5-6-41   Right to Appeal
   
5-6-42   Historic Structures
   
5-6-43   Functionally Dependent Uses
   
5-6-44   Agricultural Structures
   
5-6-45   Considerations
   
5-6-46   Findings
   
5-6-47   Floodways
   
5-6-48   Conditions
Article VI: Legal Status Provisions
   
5-6-50   Effect on Rights and Liabilities under the Existing Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance
   
5-6-51   Effect upon Outstanding Building Permits
   
5-6-52   Effective Date
ARTICLE I: GENERAL STANDARDS
§ 5-6-1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of South Carolina has in S.C. Code, Title 5 and
Title 6, and amendments thereto, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Mayor and Council
of the City of Dillon, South Carolina ordain as follows.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-2 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Furthermore, these flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-3 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health,
minimize property damage, and encourage appropriate construction practices to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that
uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction. Uses of the
floodplain which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or
erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion are
restricted or prohibited. These provisions attempt to control the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are
involved in the accommodation of flood waters, and control filling, grading,
dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion.
Additionally, the chapter prevents or regulates the construction of flood
barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood
hazards to other lands.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to protect human life and health,
to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas, and to insure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area. The provisions of the chapter are intended to minimize damage
to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
telephone, and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in the floodplain, and
prolonged business interruptions. Also, an important floodplain management
objective of this chapter is to minimize expenditure of public money for costly
flood control projects and rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding.
   (C)   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform
vital natural functions such as temporary storage of floodwaters, moderation of
peak flood flows, maintenance of water quality, groundwater recharge,
prevention of erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations,
recreational opportunities, and aesthetic quality. These functions are best
served if floodplains are kept in their natural state. Wherever possible, the
natural characteristics of floodplains and their associated wetlands and water
bodies should be preserved and enhanced. Decisions to alter floodplains,
especially floodways and stream channels, should be the result of careful
planning processes that evaluate resource conditions and human needs.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-4 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study, dated May 24, 2011 with
accompanying maps and other supporting data that are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon annexation any special flood hazard areas identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study for the
unincorporated areas of Dillon County, with accompanying map and other data are
adopted by reference and declared part of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-5 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-6 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-7 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state law. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions, shall prevail.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-8 PARTIAL INVALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this chapter is declared invalid, the remainder of the
chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in force.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-9 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of city or by any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-10 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more that five
hundred dollars ($500) or imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days, or
both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent city from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
ARTICLE II: DEFINITIONS
§ 5-6-15 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).  Structures that are located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory Structures should
constitute a minimal investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure. Additions to existing buildings
shall comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to
whether the addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or
load-bearing wall is provided between the addition and the existing building,
the addition(s) shall be considered a separate building and must comply with
the standards for new construction.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes in
which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. Agricultural structures are not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Local Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO or VO Zone on a community's Flood
insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASEMENT.  Any enclosed area of a building that is below grade on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE .
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT. Development that is critical to the community's public
health and safety, is essential to the orderly functioning of a community,
store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials, or house
occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or injury.
Examples of critical development include jails, hospitals, schools, fire
stations, nursing homes, wastewater treatment facilities, water plants, and
gas/oil/propane storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of solid foundation perimeter walls,
pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before July 1, 1991.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.  A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before March 11, 1985.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency which contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum seventy-two (72) hours) with floodwaters
without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any
material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water,
including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not flood-resistant.
Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable
flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation
from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally unstable are
not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after
submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2,
Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 2008, and available
from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials,
referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD  tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI)) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places;
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      (2)   Some structures or districts listed on the state or local
inventories MAY NOT be historic as cited above, but have been included on the
inventories because it was believed that the structures or districts have the
potential for meeting the HISTORIC STRUCTURE criteria of the DOI. In order for
these structures to meet NFIP historic structure criteria, it must be
demonstrated and evidenced that the South Carolina Department of Archives and
History has individually determined that the structure or district meets DOI
historic structure criteria.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Applies to all new and renewed flood
insurance policies effective on and after June 1, 1997. The NFIP shall enable
the purchase of insurance to cover the cost of compliance with land use and
control measures established under Section 1361. It provides coverage for the
payment of a claim to help pay for the cost to comply with state or community
floodplain management laws or ordinances after a flood event in which a
building has been declared substantially or repetitively damaged.
   LIMITED STORAGE.  An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items that can withstand exposure to the elements and have low flood
damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant or breakaway
material, void of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be
temperature controlled. If the area is located below the base flood elevation
in an A, AE and A1-A30 zone it must meet the requirements of §§
5-6-30 through
5-6-35. If the area is located below the base flood elevation in a V, VE and
V1-V30 zone it must meet the requirements of §
5-6-35.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG).  An elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any deck support, exterior walls of a building or proposed building
walls.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE .
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION . A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL . For the purpose of this chapter, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or
other datum, to which the base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) are shown.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD)OF 1929. As corrected in 1 929,
elevation reference points set by National Geodetic Survey based on mean sea
level.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) OF 1988. Vertical control, as corrected
in 1988, used as the reference datum on Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structure for which the start of construction commenced on
or after March 11, 1985. The term also includes any subsequent improvements to
such structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after March 11,
1985.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE.  A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal dune occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  A building covered by a contract for flood insurance that
has incurred flood-related damages on two (2) occasions during a ten (10)-year
period ending on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in
which the cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equaled or
exceeded 25% of the market value of the building at the time of each such flood
event.
   SECTION 1316 OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968.  The Act provides
that no new flood insurance shall be provided for any property found by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to have been declared by a state or local
authority to be in violation of state or local ordinances.
   STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION.  The first place on the oceanfront where plants
such as sea oats hold sand in place.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (P.L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or improvement was within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a
site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles,
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary
forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part
of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, including a
gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred. Such repairs may be undertaken successively and their costs counted
cumulatively. Please refer to the definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT .
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT .
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project of improvement to a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (2)   Permits shall be cumulative for a period of five (5) years, if the
improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated
with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be
utilized to determine whether SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT will occur.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.
Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from a term or terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
ARTICLE III: ADMINISTRATION
§ 5-6-20 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Director of Code Enforcement or his/her designee is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-21 ADOPTION OF LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS (LOMR).
   All LOMRs that are issued in the areas identified in §
5-6-4 are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-22 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Development permit. Application for a development permit shall be made
to the Local Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to
any development activities. The development permit may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing: the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; and the location of fill materials, storage areas, and drainage
facilities. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour or a
statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain must be provided by the
development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within the
floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either the duties and responsibilities of the
Local Floodplain Administrator of §
5-6-23(K) or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
5-6-31(L) and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations
and floodways of §
5-6-32. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by it. The plot
plan must show the floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the floodway identified pursuant to either the duties or
responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator of §
5-6-23(K) or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
5-6-31(L) and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations
and floodway of §
5-6-32.
      (2)   Where base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §
5-6-4 or the duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator
of §
5-6-23(K) the application for a development permit within the flood hazard area
shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure will be floodproofed in accordance with the
non-residential construction requirements of §
5-6-31(B), the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure
will be floodproofed.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation data is not provided as set forth in §
5-6-4 or the duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator
of §
5-6-23(K), then the provisions in the standards for streams without estimated
base flood elevations and floodways of §
5-6-32 must be met.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourse. Where any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development, the application for a
development permit shall include a description of the extent of watercourse
alteration or relocation, an engineering study to demonstrate that the flood-
carrying capacity of the altered or relocated watercourse is maintained and a
map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Certifications.
      (1)   Floodproofing certification. When a structure is floodproofed, the
applicant shall provide certification from a registered, professional engineer
or architect that the non-residential, floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in the non-residential construction requirements of §§
5-6-31(B) and
5-6-34(B)(2).
      (2)   Certification during construction. A lowest floor elevation or
floodproofing certification is required after the lowest floor is completed. As
soon as possible after completion of the lowest floor and before any further
vertical construction commences, or floodproofing by whatever construction
means, whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Local Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation
of the lowest floor, or floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable, as
built, in relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by it. Any work done prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder's risk. The Local Floodplain
Administrator shall review the floor elevation survey data submitted. The
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed shall correct deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to
submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   V-Zone certification. When a structure is located in Zones V, VE,
or V1-V30, certification shall be provided from a registered professional
engineer or architect, separate from submitted plans, that new construction and
substantial improvement meets the criteria for the coastal high hazard areas
outlined in §
5-6-35.
      (4)   As-built certification. Upon completion of the development a
registered professional engineer, land surveyor or architect, in accordance
with South Carolina law, shall certify according to the requirements of
divisions (B)(1), (2) and (3) above that the development is built in accordance
with the submitted plans and previous pre-development certifications.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-23 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following.
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Requirement of federal and/or state permits. Review proposed
development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C 1334.
   (C)   Watercourse alterations.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources, Land, Water, and Conservation Division, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   In addition to the notifications required watercourse alterations
per division (C)(1) above, written reports of maintenance records must be
maintained to show that maintenance has been provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained. This maintenance must consist of a comprehensive program of
periodic inspections, and routine channel clearing and dredging, or other
related functions. The assurance shall consist of a description of maintenance
activities, frequency of performance, and the local official responsible for
maintenance performance. Records shall be kept on file for FEMA inspection.
      (3)   If the proposed project will modify the configuration of the
watercourse, floodway, or base flood elevation for which a detailed Flood
insurance Study has been developed, the applicant shall apply for and must
receive approval for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency prior to the start of construction.
      (4)   Within sixty (60) days of completion of an alteration of a
watercourse, referenced in the certification requirements of §
5-6-22(B)(4), the applicant shall submit as-built certification, by a
registered professional engineer, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Floodway encroachments. Prevent encroachments within floodways unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
5-6-31(E) are met.
   (E)   Adjoining floodplains. Cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to the management of adjoining floodplains and/or flood-related erosion
areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.
   (F)   Notifying adjacent communities. Notify adjacent communities prior to
permitting substantial commercial developments and large subdivisions to be
undertaken in areas of special flood hazard and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.
   (G)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Obtain and review actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with administrative procedures outlined in §
5-6-22(B)(2) or the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined in §
5-6-35(E).
      (2)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the floodproofing certification outlined in §
5-6-22(B)(1).
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the non-residential construction requirements outlined in §
5-6-31(B).
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined
in §§
5-6-35(D), (F) and (H).
   (H)   Map interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this chapter.
   (I)   Prevailing authority. Where a map boundary showing an area of special
flood hazard and field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations for flood
protection elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table,
etc.) shall prevail. The correct information should be submitted to FEMA as per
the map maintenance activity requirements outlined in §
5-6-31(G)(2).
   (J)   Use of best available data. When base flood elevation data and
floodway data has not been provided in accordance with §
5-6-4, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize best available base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, including data developed pursuant to the standards for subdivision
proposals outlined in §
5-6-31(L), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. Data from
preliminary, draft, and final Flood Insurance Studies constitutes best
available data from a federal, state, or other source. Data must be developed
using hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirement of NFIP approved model.
If an appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 CFR Ch. 1, Part 67.5
and 67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (K)   Special flood hazard area/topographic boundaries conflict. When the
exact location of boundaries of the areas special flood hazards conflict with
the current, natural topography information at the site; the site information
takes precedence when the lowest adjacent grade is at or above the BFE, the
property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA)
by FEMA. The Local Floodplain Administrator in the permit file will maintain a
copy of the Letter of Map Amendment issued from FEMA.
   (L)   On-site inspections. Make on-site inspections of projects in
accordance with the administrative procedures outlined in §
5-6-24(A).
   (M)   Administrative notices. Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work
orders, revoke permits and take corrective actions in accordance with the
administrative procedures in §
5-6-24.
   (N)   Records maintenance. Maintain all records pertaining to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection.
   (O)   Annexations and detachments. Notify the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for
the National Flood Insurance Program within six (6) months, of any annexations
or detachments that include special flood hazard areas.
   (P)   Federally funded development. The President issued Executive Order
11988, Floodplain Management May 1977. Executive Order 11988 directs federal
agencies to assert a leadership role in reducing flood losses and losses to
environmental values served by floodplains. Proposed developments must go
through an eight (8)-step review process. Evidence of compliance with the
Executive Order must be submitted as part of the permit review process.
   (Q)   Substantial damage determination. Perform an assessment of damage from
any origin to the structure using FEMA's Residential Substantial Damage
Estimator (RSDE) software to determine if the damage equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   (R)   Substantial improvement determinations.
      (1)   Perform an assessment of permit applications for improvements or
repairs to be made to a building or structure that equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction. Cost of work
counted for determining if and when substantial improvement to a structure
occurs shall be cumulative for a period of five (5) years. If the improvement
project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated with each
phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be utilized to
determine whether substantial improvement will occur.
      (2)   The market values shall be determined by one (1) of the following
methods:
         (a)   The current assessed building value as determined by the
County's Assessor's office or the value of an appraisal performed by a licensed
appraiser at the expense of the owner within the past six (6) months.
         (b)   One (1) or more certified appraisals from a registered
professional licensed appraiser in accordance with the laws of South Carolina.
The appraisal shall indicate actual replacement value of the building or
structure in its pre-improvement condition, less the cost of site Improvements
and depreciation for functionality and obsolescence.
         (c)   Real estate purchase contract within six (6) months prior to the
date of the application for a permit.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-24 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Local Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections
of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according
to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In
exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The
stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.
The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits. The Local Floodplain Administrator may revoke
and require the return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder
in writing, stating the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections. The Local Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his/her inspections department shall have a right, upon presentation
of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial
jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected. When the Local Floodplain Administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his/her duty
to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law on the property
he owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give him written notice, by certified or
registered mail to his last known address or by personal service, that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Local Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Local Floodplain Administrator may issue
such order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he/she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within such period, not less than sixty (60)
days, the Floodplain Administrator may prescribe; provided that where the
Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, he may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as
may be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten
(10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal,
the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing
body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in the discretion of the court.
   (J)   Denial of flood insurance under the nfip. If a structure is declared
in violation of this chapter and after all other penalties are exhausted to
achieve compliance with this ordinance then the Local Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to initiate a
Section 1316 of the National Flood insurance Act of 1968 action against the
structure upon the finding that the violator refuses to bring the violation
into compliance with this chapter. Once a violation has been remedied the local
Floodplain Administrator shall notify FEMA of the remedy and ask that the
Section 1316 be rescinded.
   (K)   The following documents are incorporated by reference and may be used
by the Local Floodplain Administrator to provide further guidance and
interpretation of this chapter as found on FEMA's website at www.fema.gov:
      (1)   FEMA 55 Coastal Construction Manual;
      (2)   All FEMA Technical Bulletins;
      (3)   All FEMA Floodplain Management Bulletins;
      (4)   FEMA 348 Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damage;
      (5)   FEMA 499 Home Builder's Guide to Coastal Construction Technical
Fact Sheets.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
ARTICLE IV: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 5-6-30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Development may not occur in the special flood hazard area (SFHA) where
alternative locations exist due to the inherent hazards and risks involved.
Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new structures
cannot be located out of the SFHA and that encroachments onto the SFHA are
minimized. In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   Reasonably safe from flooding. Review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.
   (C)   Flood-resistant materials and equipment. All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with flood resistant materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance with Technical
Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 2008,
and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Minimize flood damage. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages.
   (E)   Critical development. Shall be elevated to the 500-year flood
elevation or be elevated to the highest known historical flood elevation (where
records are available), whichever is greater. If no data exists establishing
the 500-year flood elevation or the highest known historical flood elevation,
the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis
that generates 500-year flood elevation data.
   (F)   Utilities. Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall
be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of the base flood plus one (1) foot
(freeboard).
   (G)   Water supply systems. All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system.
   (H)   Sanitary sewage systems. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters. On-site waste
disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them
or contamination from them during flooding,
   (I)   Gas or liquid storage tanks. All gas or liquid storage tanks, either
located above ground or buried, shall be anchored to prevent floatation and
lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (J)   Alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements. Any alteration,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement to a structure that is in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the requirements of new
construction as contained in this chapter. This includes post-FIRM development
and structures.
   (K)   Non-conforming buildings or uses. Non-conforming buildings or uses may
not be enlarged, replaced, or rebuilt unless such enlargement or reconstruction
is accomplished in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Provided,
however, nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of an existing building or structure located totally or partially
within the floodway, provided that the bulk of the building or structure below
base flood elevation in the floodway is not increased and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (L)   American with Disabilities Act (ADA). A building must meet the
specific standards for floodplain construction outlined in §
5-6-31 as well as any applicable ADA requirements. The ADA is not justification
for issuing a variance or otherwise waiving these requirements. Also, the cost
of improvements required to meet the ADA provisions shall be included in the
costs of the improvements for calculating substantial improvement.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard ( Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-A30, V, and
VE) where base flood elevation data has been provided, as set forth in §
5-6-4 or outlined in the duties and responsibilities of the Local Floodplain
Administrator in §
5-6-23, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor elevated no lower than one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation. No basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls
be used to elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces, shall be provided in accordance with the
elevated buildings requirements in division (D) below.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than one (1) foot above the level of
the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces, shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in division (D) below. No basements are permitted.
Structures located in A-Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure below the required elevation are watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered, professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in the floodproofing certification
requirements in §
5-6-22. A variance may be considered for wet-floodproofing agricultural
structures in accordance with the criteria outlined in §
5-6-44. Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of §
5-6-44 must meet the nonresidential construction standards and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Structures that are floodproofed are
required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual exercise. The
Local Floodplain Administrator must approve the maintenance plan and
notification of the annual exercise shall be provided to it.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than one (1) foot above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions for residential construction in division (A) above
must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated
no lower one (1) foot than above the base flood elevation, and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement in accordance with Section 40-29-10 of the South Carolina Manufactured
Housing Board Regulations, as amended. Additionally, when the elevation
requirement would be met by an elevation of the chassis thirty-six (36) inches
or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above thirty-six (36) inches in height an engineering certification is
required.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Local Floodplain Administrator and
the local Emergency Preparedness Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building access, or limited
storage in an area other than a basement, and which are subject to flooding
shall be designed to preclude finished space and be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed all of the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings on different walls having
a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of each opening must be no more than one (1) foot
above the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the
opening;
         (c)   Only the portions of openings that are below the base flood
elevation (BFE) can be counted towards the required net open area;
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      (2)   Hazardous velocities. Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in
the design of any foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for
debris flow exists, if flood velocities are excessive (greater than five (5)
feet per second), foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should
be considered so that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      (3)   Enclosures below lowest floor.
         (a)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (b)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms, must be void of utilities except for
essential lighting as required for safety, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
         (c)   One (1) wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground
fault interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions (A), (B)
and (C) above.
         (d)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions (A), (B),
(C) and (D) should be of flood- resistant materials.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
5-6-4 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and potential
projectiles and has erosion potential. The following provisions shall apply
within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood. Such certification and technical data
shall be presented to the Local Floodplain Administrator.
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision must be obtained upon completion of the
proposed development.
      (2)   If division (E)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
5-6-30 through
5-6-35.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of division (C) above and the
encroachment standards of division (E)(1) above are met.
      (4)   Permissible uses within floodways may include: general farming,
pasture, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry, wildlife sanctuary,
game farm, and other similar agricultural, wildlife, and related uses. Also,
lawns, gardens, play areas, picnic grounds, and hiking and horseback riding
trails are acceptable uses, provided that they do not employ structures or
fill. Substantial development of a permissible use may require a no-impact
certification. The uses listed in this division are permissible only if and to
the extent that they do not cause any increase in base flood elevations or
changes to the floodway configuration.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is:
         (a)   On wheels or jacking system;
         (b)   Attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and
security devices; and
         (c)   Has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either be:
         (a)   On site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         (c)   Meet the development permit and certification requirements of §
5-6-22, general standards outlined in §
5-6-30 and manufactured homes standards in divisions (C) and (D) of this
section.
   (G)   Map maintenance activities. The National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) requires flood data to be reviewed and approved by FEMA. This ensures
that flood maps, studies and other data identified in §
5-6-4 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data. The following map maintenance
activities are identified.
      (1)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
         (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations
or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical or
scientific data reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA as soon as
practicable, but no later than six (6) months of the date such information
becomes available. These development proposals include; but not limited to:
            1.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            2.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
            3.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
            4.   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
5-6-32(A).
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical
data, required in accordance with this division (G), prepared in a format
required for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map Revision,
and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions
shall also be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (c)   The Local Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional
Letter of Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit
for:
            1.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
            2.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation
by more than one (1) foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
         (d)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Local Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this division (G).
      (2)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator
may request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that
does not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations,
such as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the local jurisdiction
and may be submitted at any time.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   A detached accessory structure or garage, the cost of which is
greater than three thousand dollars ($3,000), must comply with the requirements
as outlined in FEMA's Technical Bulletin 7-93 Wet Floodproofing Requirements or
be elevated in accordance with divisions (A) and (D) above or dry floodproofed
In accordance with division (B) above.
      (2)   If accessory structures of three thousand dollars ($3,000) or less
are to be placed in the floodplain, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for any uses other than
the parking of vehicles and storage;
         (b)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be installed in accordance with §
5-6-30(E);
         (f)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below base flood elevation in conformance with division (D)(1) above;
and
         (g)   Accessory structures shall be built with flood resistance
materials in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, dated August 2008, and available from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are
acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   (I)   Swimming pool utility equipment rooms. If the building cannot be built
at or above the BFE, because of functionality of the equipment then a structure
to house the utilities for the pool may be built below the BFE with the
following provisions:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for accessory structures in division (H)
above;
      (2)   The utilities must be anchored to prevent flotation and shall be
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   (J)   Elevators.
      (1)   Install a float switch system or another system that provides the
same level of safety necessary for all elevators where there is a potential for
the elevator cab to descend below the BFE during a flood per FEMA's Technical
Bulletin 4-93 Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood
Hazard Areas.
      (2)   All equipment that may have to be installed below the BFE such as
counter weight roller guides, compensation cable and pulleys, and oil buffers
for traction elevators and the jack assembly for a hydraulic elevator must be
constructed using flood-resistant materials where possible per FEMA's Technical
Bulletin 4-93 Elevator installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood
Hazard Areas.
   (K)   Fill. An applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative
to raising the building to meet the residential and non-residential
construction requirements of divisions (A) and (B) above, and that the amount
of fill used will not affect the flood storage capacity or adversely affect
adjacent properties. The following provisions shall apply to all fill placed in
the special flood hazard area:
      (1)   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance
with the requirements in division (E)(1) above.
      (2)   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits.
      (3)   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. A registered
professional geotechnical engineer may use dredged material as fill only upon
certification of suitability. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps, and sanitary
fills are not permitted in the floodplain.
      (4)   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-
698, and its suitability to support structures certified by a registered,
professional engineer.
      (5)   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two horizontal to one
vertical. Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in
erosion.
      (6)   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage
problems on neighboring properties.
      (7)   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high
hazard areas.
      (8)   Will meet the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01,
Ensuring That Structures Built On Fill in or Near Special Flood Hazard Areas
Are Reasonable Safe from Flooding.
   (L)   Standards for subdivision proposals and other development.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in division (G) above when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is
completed that generates base flood elevations.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-32 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard (Zones A and V) established
in §
5-6-4 are small streams where no base flood data has been provided and where no
floodways have been identified. The following provisions apply within such
areas.
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is less.
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and new development shall be permitted within one hundred (100)
feet of the stream bank unless certification with supporting technical data by
a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (C)   If division (A) above is satisfied and base flood elevation data is
available from other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements
within such areas shall comply with all applicable flood hazard ordinance
provisions of §§
5-6-30 through
5-6-35 and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with elevations
established in accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   Data from preliminary, draft, and final Flood Insurance Studies
constitutes best available data. Refer to FEMA Floodplain Management Technical
Bulletin 1-98 Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available Data. If an
appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 CFR Ch. 1, Part 67.5 and
67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (E)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source one (1) of the following methods may be used to
determine a BFE For further information regarding the methods for determining
BFEs listed below, refer to FEMA's manual Managing Floodplain Development in
Approximate Zone A Areas:
      (1)   Contour interpolation.
         (a)   Superimpose approximate Zone A boundaries onto a topographic map
and estimate a BFE.
         (b)   Add one-half of the contour interval of the topographic map that
is used to the BFE.
      (2)   Data extrapolation. A BFE can be determined if a site within five
hundred (500) feet upstream of a reach of a stream reach for which a 100-year
profile has been computed by detailed methods, and the floodplain and channel
bottom slope characteristics are relatively similar to the downstream reaches.
No hydraulic structures shall be present.
      (3)   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations. Perform hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine BFEs using FEMA approved methods and
software.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-33 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
provided but no floodway is identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS.
   (B)   No encroachments including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development shall be permitted unless certification with
supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one (1) foot at any
point within the community.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-34 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
5-6-4 are areas designated as shallow flooding. The following provisions shall
apply within such areas.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the
depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall
be elevated at least three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade, if no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be
elevated at least three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Be completely flood-proofed together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities to or above that level so that any space below that level
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as stated
in §
5-6-23.
   (C)   All structures on slopes must have drainage paths around them to guide
water away from the structures.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-35 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (V-ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
5-6-4 or §
5-6-23(K) are areas designated as coastal high hazard areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with wave wash. The following provisions shall
apply within such areas.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be located
landward of the reach of mean high tide, first line of stable natural
vegetation and comply with all applicable Department of Heath and Environmental
Control (DHEC) Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM) setback
requirements.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest supporting horizontal structural member
(excluding pilings or columns) of the lowest floor is located no lower than
       feet above the base flood elevation.
   (C)   All buildings or structures shall be securely anchored on pilings or
columns, extending vertically below a grade of sufficient depth and the zone of
potential scour, and securely anchored to the subsoil strata.
   (D)   All pilings and columns and the attached structures shall be anchored
to resist flotation, collapse, lateral movement and scour due to the effect of
wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components.
   (E)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions contained in divisions (C), (D), (F) and (I) of this section.
   (F)   There shall be no fill used as structural support. Non-compacted fill
may be used around the perimeter of a building for landscaping/aesthetic
purposes provided the fill will wash out from storm surge, thereby rendering
the building free of obstruction prior to generating excessive loading forces,
ramping effects, or wave deflection. Only beach compatible sand may be used.
The Local Floodplain Administrator shall approve design plans for landscaping/
aesthetic fill only after the applicant has provided an analysis by an
engineer, architect, and/or soil scientist that demonstrates that the following
factors have been fully considered:
      (1)   Particle composition of fill material does not have a tendency for
excessive natural compaction;
      (2)   Volume and distribution of fill will not cause wave deflection to
adjacent properties; and
      (3)   Slope of fill will not cause wave run-up or ramping.
   (G)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes that would increase
potential flood damage.
   (H)   (1)   All new construction and substantia! improvements have the space
below the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed with non-
supporting breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work, or insect screening
intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system. For the purpose of this section, a
breakaway wall shall have a design safe loading resistance of not less than ten
(10) and no more than twenty (20) pounds per square foot. Breakaway wall
enclosures shall not exceed two hundred ninety-nine (299) square feet. Only
flood-resistant materials shall be used below the required flood elevation
specified in §
5-6-31 . One (1) wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground fault
interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in §
5-6-31 .
      (2)   Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe loading
resistance of twenty (20) pounds per square foot may be permitted only if a
registered professional engineer or architect certifies that the designs
proposed meet the following conditions:
         (a)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood;
         (b)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components (structural and nonstructural). The water loading shall be
those values associated with the base flood. The wind loading values shall be
those required by applicable IBC International Building Code.
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be useable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage. Such space shall not be used for human
habitation, finished or partitioned into multiple rooms, or temperature-
controlled.
   (I)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of §
5-6-31 (C).
   (J)   Recreational vehicles shall be permitted in coastal high hazard areas
provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
5-6-31 (F) and the temporary structure provisions of division (L) below.
   (K)   Accessory structures, below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in division (B) above are prohibited except for the following:
      (1)   Swimming pools.
         (a)   They are installed at-grade or elevated so long as the pool will
not act as an obstruction;
         (b)   They must be structurally independent of the building and its
foundation;
         (c)   They may be placed beneath a coastal building only if the top of
the pool and any accompanying decking or walkway are flush with the existing
grade and only if the lower area remains unenclosed;
         (d)   As part of the certification process for V-Zone buildings the
design professional must consider the effects that any of these elements will
have on the building in question and any nearby buildings.
      (2)   Access stairs attached to or beneath an elevated building.
         (a)   Must be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
         (b)   Must be constructed as open staircases so they do not block flow
under the structure in accordance with division (B) above.
      (3)   Decks.
         (a)   If the deck is structurally attached to a building then the
bottom of the lowest horizontal member must be at or above the elevation of the
buildings lowest horizontal member;
         (b)   If the deck is to be built below the BFE then it must be
structurally independent of the main building and must not cause an
obstruction;
         (c)   If an at-grade, structurally independent deck is proposed then a
design professional must evaluate the design to determine if it will adversely
affect the building and nearby buildings.
   (L)   Parking areas should be located on a stable grade under or landward of
a structure. Any parking surface shall consist of gravel or aggregate.
   (M)   Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of base flood event plus one (1) foot. This
requirement does not exclude the installation of outdoor faucets for shower
heads, sinks, hoses, etc., as long as cut off devices and back flow prevention
devices are installed to prevent contamination to the service components and
thereby minimize any flood damages to the building. No utilities or components
shall be attached to breakaway walls.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
ARTICLE V: VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 5-6-40 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the city, shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-41 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any taxpayer may
appeal such decision to the Court.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-42 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-43 FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USES.
   Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided the criteria of this subchapter are met,
no reasonable alternatives exist, and the development is protected by methods
that minimize flood damage and create no additional threat to public safety.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-44 AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued to wet floodproof an agricultural structure provided
it is used solely for agricultural purposes, in order to minimize flood damages
during the base flood and the threat to public health and safety, the structure
must meet all of the conditions and considerations of §
5-6-47 , this section, and the following standards:
   (A)   Use of the structure must be limited to agricultural purposes as
listed below:
      (1)   Pole frame buildings with open or closed sides used exclusively for
the storage of farm machinery and equipment;
      (2)   Steel grain bins and steel frame corncribs;
      (3)   General-purpose barns for the temporary feeding of livestock that
are open on at least one (1) side;
      (4)   For livestock confinement buildings, poultry houses, dairy
operations, and similar livestock operations, variances may not be issued for
structures that were substantially damaged. New construction or substantial
improvement of such structures must meet the elevation requirements of §
5-6-31 ; and
   (B)   The agricultural structure must be built or rebuilt, in the case of an
existing building that is substantially damaged, with flood-resistant materials
for the exterior and interior building components and elements below the base
flood elevation.
   (C)   The agricultural structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. All of the structure's components
must be capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including
hydrostatic, buoyancy, hydrodynamic, and debris impact forces. Where flood
velocities exceed five (5) feet per second, fast-flowing floodwaters can exert
considerable pressure on the building's enclosure walls or foundation walls.
   (D)   The agricultural structure must meet the venting requirement of §
5-6-31 (D).
   (E)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be located
above the base flood elevation (BFE), plus any required freeboard, or be
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
5-6-30 (E).
   (F)   The agricultural structure must comply with the floodway encroachment
provisions of §
5-6-31 (E).
   (G)   Major equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected. Such
protection may include protective watertight floodproofed areas within the
building, the use of equipment hoists for readily elevating contents,
permanently elevating contents on pedestals or shelves above the base flood
elevation, or determining that property owners can safely remove contents
without risk to lives and that the contents will be located to a specified site
out of the floodplain.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-45 CONSIDERATIONS.
    In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage, and
the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development, and, the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   (I)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges; and
   (J)   Agricultural structures must be located in wide, expansive floodplain
areas, where no other alternative location for the agricultural structure
exists. The applicant must demonstrate that the entire farm acreage, consisting
of a contiguous parcel of land on which the structure is to be located, must be
in the special flood hazard area and no other alternative locations for the
structure are available.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-46 FINDINGS.
   Findings listed above shall be submitted to the Appeal Board, in writing,
and included in the application for a variance. Additionally, comments from the
Department of Natural Resources, Land, Water and Conservation Division, State
Coordinator's Office, must be taken into account and included in the permit
file.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-47 FLOODWAYS.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result unless a CLOMR is
obtained prior to issuance of the variance. In order to ensure the project is
built in compliance with the CLOMR for which the variance is granted the
applicant must provide a bond for 100% of the cost to perform the development.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-48 CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter. The
following conditions shall apply to all variances:
   (A)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the structure
in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk. Such
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
   (E)   The Local Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request.
   (F)   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or other
development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Violations must be corrected in accordance with §
5-6-24 (E).
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
ARTICLE VI: LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 5-6-50 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted February 14, 2011 and it is
not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued there under are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the City of Dillon enacted February 14, 2011, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein, are repealed.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-51 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building Inspector or
his authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter; provided,
however, that when start of construction has not occurred under such
outstanding permit within a period of sixty (60) days subsequent to passage of
this chapter, construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 5-6-52 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption on June 11, 2018.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 6-11-2018)
CHAPTER 7: ROAD NAMING AND PROPERTY ADDRESSING
Section
5-7-1   Title
5-7-2   Jurisdiction
5-7-3   Purpose
5-7-4   Establishment of Uniform Name and Numbering System
5-7-5   Duplication of Road Names
5-7-6   Provisions of Addresses
5-7-7   Location and Installation of Road Name Signs
5-7-8   Number Placement and Size and Composition of Numbers
5-7-9   Naming of New Roads
5-7-10   Naming of Existing Roads
5-7-11   Assignment of Addresses to New Principal Buildings
5-7-12   Posting of Addresses on New Principal Buildings
5-7-13   Posting of Addresses on Existing Principal Buildings
5-7-14   Posting of Addresses on Existing Collective Developments
5-7-15   Penalties
§ 5-7-1 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the Road Naming and Addressing Properties
Ordinance for the City of Dillon, South Carolina.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-2 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations set forth herein shall apply only to those roads, both
public and private, which are located within the incorporated area of the City
of Dillon, South Carolina.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-3 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a system of unique road names and
unique addressing, which is essential to the successful implementation of the
Enhanced 911 Emergency Services System, and is, therefore essential to the
efficient and effective provision of such services as police, fire, and
emergency medical services.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-4 ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIFORM NAME AND NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   The Dillon City Council shall develop and maintain a uniform system of
naming roads and numbering properties which shall be known as "Guidelines for
Naming Roads and Addressing Properties in the City of Dillon." These guidelines
which may be changed from time to time shall be used by the designated
authority naming roads and numbering properties as required by this ordinance.
All guidelines shall be approved by vote of Dillon City Council and shall be
enforced in the same manner as an ordinance.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-5 DUPLICATION OF ROAD NAMES.
   New road names shall not be allowed if they duplicate existing approved
municipal or county road names, including road names within zip code areas that
cross county boundaries into neighboring counties. This includes duplicates of
words, phonetics, homonyms, or homophones.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-6 PROVISIONS OF ADDRESSES.
   An address shall be assigned for all principal dwellings, buildings, and
vacant lots by sequential numerical order whenever possible within the
incorporated area of the city. All eligible streets and roads shall be assigned
addresses accordingly so as to use the fifty (50) foot grid interval as the
normal guideline rather than being used as an absolute factor in 100 percent
(100%) of the cases of addresses. When in doubt the City Manager or his
designee will make the final determining judgment as to what address will be
applied.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-7 LOCATION AND INSTALLATION OF ROAD NAME SIGNS.
   Sign locations and installation shall be in accord with the Department of
Public Works specifications for road name signs. A road name sign shall be
provided for all streets or roads that meet the provisions of the "Guidelines
for Naming Roads and Addressing Properties in the City of Dillon."
§ 5-7-8 NUMBER PLACEMENT AND SIZE AND COMPOSITION OF NUMBERS.
   When each dwelling or building has been assigned its respective number or
numbers, the owner, occupant or agent shall be required to display the assigned
number or numbers in accordance with the following positions. The cost of the
numbers shall be paid for by the property owner.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
   (A)   Numbers shall not be less than three (3) inches in height, and shall
be made of a durable and clearly visible material which is in contrasting color
to the building.
   (B)   The numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on or at
the side of the proper door of each building so that the number can be seen
clearly from the street line. Whenever the building is more than fifty (50)
feet from the street line, or when the numbers at the door are not clearly
visible from the street line, the number must be placed near the walk,
driveway, or common entrance to the building, and upon a mailbox, gate post,
fence, or other appropriate place so as to be easily read from the street line.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-9 NAMING OF NEW ROADS.
   Whenever any new road is planned for construction in the City of Dillon, it
will be the duty of the owner or owners to obtain the correct road name from
the designated authority and to erect the proper sign when the road is
constructed.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-10 NAMING OF EXISTING ROADS.
   All roads maintained by the City of Dillon and the South Carolina Department
of Transportation will be named. Private roads will be named if they provide
access to three (3) or more properties. All street names will appear as they
are noted in the 2005-2006 Dillon phone directory and any name changes shall be
approved by action of the City Council.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-11 ASSIGNMENT OF ADDRESSES TO NEW PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   Whenever, any principal dwelling or building is erected or located in the
City of Dillon subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance, it will be
the duty of the owner or owners to obtain the correct address from the
designated authority for the property, and to immediately attach the number or
numbers to the building as provided by this ordinance. No building permit shall
be issued for any dwelling or building until the owner has obtained the
official address from the designated authority.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-12 POSTING OF ADDRESSES ON NEW PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   Final approval of any major structure erected, altered, repaired, or
modified after the effective date of this ordinance shall be withheld until
proper address numbers have been assigned by the designated authority and
affixed on said structure as outlined in this ordinance.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-13 POSTING OF ADDRESSES ON EXISTING PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   Owners of existing principal dwellings or buildings, by adoption of this
ordinance are required to post the assigned address numbers in the manner
outlined in this ordinance within six (6) months subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance. Community clubs and the City Fire Department will be
encouraged to assist in the implementation of this task.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 5-7-14 POSTING OF ADDRESSES ON EXISTING COLLECTIVE DEVELOPMENTS.
   All mobile home parks, apartment developments, office parks and condominium
developments shall post the assigned address numbers in the manner outlined in
this ordinance within six (6) months subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance.
§ 5-7-15 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars
($200) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding thirty (30) days. Each day
such a violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 7-10-1995)
CHAPTER 8: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
Section
5-8-1   Purpose and Intent
5-8-2   Definitions
5-8-3   Classification
5-8-4   Permit and/or License Required
5-8-5   Issuance of Permit and/or License
5-8-6   Fees
5-8-7   Inspection
5-8-8   Expiration of Permit and/or License
5-8-9   Suspension
5-8-10   Revocation
5-8-11   Transfer of Permit and/or License
5-8-12   Location of Sexually Oriented Business
5-8-13   Additional Regulations for Adult Motels
5-8-14   Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit Films or
Videos
5-8-15   Exemptions
5-8-16   Injunction and Violations
Note: The following sections adopted by Ordinance 98-16, passed October 12,
1998.
§ 5-8-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of
the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
continued deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of
this ordinance to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-2 DEFINITIONS.
5-8-2-1
   ADULT ARCADE means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
5-8-2-2
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO means a commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one (1) or more of the following:
      (A)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
      (B)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with "specified sexual activities." A commercial establishment
may have other principal business purposes that do not involve the offering for
sale or rental of material depicting or describing "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and still be categorized as adult
bookstore or adult video store. Such other business purposes will not serve to
exempt such commercial establishment from being categorized as an adult
bookstore or adult video store so long as one (1) of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials or devices which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
5-8-2-3
   ADULT CABARET means a nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (A)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; or
      (B)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      (C)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or to specified anatomical areas."
5-8-2-4
   ADULT MOTEL means a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (A)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slide, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas," and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
      (B)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten (10) hours; or
      (C)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
5-8-2-5
   ADULT MOTION THEATER  means a commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
5-8-2-6
   ADULT THEATER means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
5-8-2-7
   ESCORT means a person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
5-8-2-8
   ESCORT AGENCY means a person or business association who furnishes, offers
to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one (1) of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
5-8-2-9
   ESTABLISHMENT means and includes any of the following:
      (A)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (B)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (C)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or;
      (D)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
5-8-2-10
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE means a person in whose name a permit and/or
license to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or
license.
5-8-2-11
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO  means any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
5-8-2-12
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY means the appearance of a human bare buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals, or female breast.
5-8-2-13
   PERSON means an individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
5-8-2-14
   SEMI-NUDE means a state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic regions, and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
5-8-2-15
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER  means a business or commercial enterprise that, as
one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (A)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (B)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one (1) or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nude.
5-8-2-16
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS  means an adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
5-8-2-17
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS  means less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks and female breasts below a point
immediately above the areola, or the covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
5-8-2-18
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES  means and includes any of the following:
      (A)   The fondling or other erotic touching of the human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (B)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (C)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (D)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in(A) through (C) above.
5-8-2-19
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS means the increase
in floor areas occupied by the business by more than twenty-five percent (25%).
5-8-2-20
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS means and
includes any of the following:
      (A)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (B)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (C)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-3 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
      (A)   Adult arcades;
      (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
      (C)   Adult cabarets;
      (D)   Adult motels;
      (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
      (F)   Adult theaters;
      (G)   Escort agencies;
      (H)   Nude model studios; and
      (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-4 PERMIT AND/OR LICENSE REQUIRED.
5-8-4-1
   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates a sexually oriented business
without a valid permit and/or license, issued by the city for the particular
type of business.
5-8-4-2
   An application for a zoning permit and business license must be made on a
form provided by the Zoning Department and Business License Department. The
application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises; including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
(6) inches.
5-8-4-3
   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this chapter
and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with the law
by the Health Department, Fire Department, and building official. The Health
Department, Fire Department, and building official shall complete their
inspections and certify same to the deputy administrator/license inspector
within twenty-one (21) days of receipt of the application by said deputy
administrator/license inspector.
5-8-4-4
   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he must sign the application for a permit and/or license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or
greater interest in the business must sign the application for a permit and/or
license as applicant. If a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually
oriented business or as the entity which wishes to operate such a business,
each individual having a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the
corporation must sign the application for a permit and/or license as applicant.
5-8-4-5
   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city or county
permits and/or licenses does not exempt him from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit and/or license.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-5 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT AND/OR LICENSE.
   The Zoning Administrator shall approve the issuance of a zoning permit and
the deputy administrator/license inspector shall approve the issuance of a
license to an applicant within thirty (30) days after receipt of an application
unless he finds one (1) or more of the following to be true:
      (A)   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
      (B)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in his payment to
the county or city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or
imposed upon him in relation to a sexually oriented business.
      (C)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the permit and/or license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the applicant form.
      (D)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a permit
and/or license by the city or county to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose
license to operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
      (E)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      (F)   The permit and/or license fee required by this ordinance has not
been paid.
      (G)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this ordinance.
      (H)   The permit and/or license, if granted, shall state on its face the
name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and
the address of the sexually oriented business. The permit and/or license shall
be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to a sexually oriented
business so that it may be easily read at any time.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-6 FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit and/or license is as
set forth in the Business and Professional License Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-7 INSPECTION.
5-8-7-1
   An applicant or permittee and/or licensee shall permit representatives of
the City Police Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning
[Planning Management] Department, or other city or county departments or
agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
5-8-7-2
   A person who operated a sexually oriented business or his agent or employee
commits a misdemeanor if he refuses to permit such lawful inspection of the
premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-8 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT AND/OR LICENSE.
5-8-8-1
   Each permit and/or license shall expire July 30 of the year in which it is
issued and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
5-8-5.
5-8-8-2
   When the deputy administrator/license inspector denies renewal of a license,
the applicant shall not be issued a permit and/or license for one (1) year from
the date of denial. If, subsequent to denial, the deputy administrator/license
inspector finds that the basis for denial of the renewal permit and/or license
has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a permit and/or
license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became
final.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-9 SUSPENSION.
   The deputy administrator/license inspector shall suspend a permit and/or
license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days if he determines that a
permittee and/or licensee or an employee of a permittee and/or licensee has:
      (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
ordinance;
      (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the
sexually oriented business premises;
      (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (D)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises;
      (E)   Violated any city or state nudity/indecency statute or ordinance.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-10 REVOCATION.
5-8-10-1
   The deputy administrator/license inspector shall revoke a permit and/or
license if a cause of suspension in §
5-8-9 occurs and the permit and/or license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
5-8-10-2
   The deputy administrator/license inspector shall revoke a permit and/or
license if he determines that:
      (A)   A permittee and/or licensee gave false or misleading information in
the material submitted to the Zoning [Planning Management] Department during
the application process;
      (B)   A permittee and/or licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (C)   A permittee and/or licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (D)   A permittee and/or licensee or an employee knowingly operated the
sexually oriented business during a period of time when the permitted's and/or
licensee's permit and/or license was suspended;
      (E)   A permitted and/or licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed
any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other
sexual conduct to occur in or on the permitted and/or licensed premises;
      (F)   A permitted and/or licensee is delinquent in payment to the city,
county or state for any taxes for fees past due.
5-8-10-3
   When the deputy administrator/license inspector revokes a permit and/or
license, the revocation shall continue for one (1) year, and the permitted and/
or licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented permit and/or license for
one (1) year from the date revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation the deputy administrator/license inspector finds that the basis for
the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
permit and/or license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date
the revocation became effective.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-11 TRANSFER OF PERMIT AND/OR LICENSE.
   A permitted and/or licensee shall not transfer his permit and/or license to
another, nor shall a permitted and/or licensee operate a sexually oriented
business under the authority of a permit and/or license at any place other than
the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-12 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
5-8-12-1
   Reserved.
5-8-12-2
   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business outside a designated B3 District. All sexually
oriented businesses shall be located within a B3 District.
5-8-12-3
A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business within one thousand (1,000) feet of:
      (A)   A church;
      (B)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (C)   A public or private nursery school or day-care;
      (D)   A boundary of any residential district;
      (E)   A public park adjacent to any residential district;
      (F)   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use.
5-8-12-4
   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the operation,
establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or control of
a sexually oriented business within one thousand (1,000) feet of another
sexually oriented business.
5-8-12-5
   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the operation,
establishment, or maintenance of more than one (1) sexually oriented business
in the same building, structure, or portion thereof or the increase of floor
areas of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or portion
thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
5-8-12-6
   For the purpose of this ordinance, measurement shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises where a
sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of a church or public or private elementary or secondary school, or
nursery school or day care or to the nearest boundary of an affected public
park, residential district, or residential lot.
5-8-12-7
   For purposes of §
5-8-2-9(D) of this section, the distance between any two (2) sexually oriented
businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without regards to intervening
structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which
each business is located.
5-8-12-8
   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating at the time of adoption of
this ordinance that is in violation of Subsection
5-8-12-1 through
5-8-12-7 of this section shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming
use will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two (2) years,
unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a
period of thirty (30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be
increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed to
a conforming use. If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within
one thousand (1,000) feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location, the sexually oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the
later-established businesses is nonconforming.
5-8-12-9
   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not
rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential
district, or a residential lot within one thousand (1,000) feet of the sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit
and/or license, and does not apply when an application for a permit and/or
license is submitted after a permit and/or license has expired or has been
revoked.
5-8-12-10
   A sexually oriented business is subject to any and all city and state
nudity/indecency statutes or ordinances, existing now or in the future; nothing
contained herein shall be interpreted to the contrary.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
5-8-13-1
   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a period of
time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
5-8-13-2
   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually oriented permit and/or license, he rents or sub-rents a sleeping
room to a person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented,
he rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
5-8-13-3
   For purposes of §
5-8-2-15(B) of this section, the terms for rent or subrent mean the act of
permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-14 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
5-8-14-1
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (A)   Upon application for a sexually oriented permit and/or license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one (1) or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches. The Zoning Administrator may waive
the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of
the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning Administrator or
his designee.
      (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one (1) employee is on duty and situated in each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      (F)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in Subsection (E) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to Subsection (A) of this section.
      (G)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one (1) person at any
time.
      (H)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one (1) foot candle as measured at
the floor level.
      (I)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above, is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
5-8-14-2
   A person having a duty under Subsection
5-8-14-1 above commits a misdemeanor if he knowingly fails to fulfil that duty.
(Ord. 98-16, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 5-8-15 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
5-8-5 and
5-8-12 that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
      (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of South Carolina; a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
      (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (C)   In a structure:
         (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         (3)   Where no more than one (1) nude model is on the premises at any
one time.
§ 5-8-16 INJUNCTION AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business without a valid permit and/or license or in violation of §
5-8-12 of this ordinance is subject to a suit for injunction as well as
prosecution for criminal violations. Such violations shall be punishable by a
fine of two hundred dollars ($200) or thirty (30) days imprisonment.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business is subject to any and all city and state
nudity/indecency statutes or ordinances, existing now or in the future; nothing
contained herein shall be intended to allow any activities contrary to the
statutes or the ordinances.
CHAPTER 9: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   The Comprehensive Plan was adopted by the City of Dillon pursuant to the
South Carolina Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994, being S.C. Code §§
6-29-310 et seq., and is incorporated in the Code of Ordinances by reference. A
complete copy can be obtained from the City of Dillon Planning and Zoning
Department.
CHAPTER 10: COMMUNITY APPEARANCE STANDARDS
Section
5-10-1   Community Appearance Standards
5-10-2   The Presence, Accumulation, Storage, or Placement of
5-10-3   Site Clearing
Cross Reference:
   Slum or blighted areas, Sec. 6-3-12
§ 5-10-1 COMMUNITY APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Conditions unlawful.  The existence of any of the following conditions
on any lot or parcel of land within the zoning jurisdiction of the city is
hereby declared to be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this
section:
      (1)   All fences, retaining walls or similar landscape features that are
not firmly anchored to the ground, maintained in good structural condition and
appearance, or free of deterioration. Wooden or other fence features subject to
deterioration or weathering shall be properly maintained to retard
deterioration or provide protection from the weather. Deteriorated features
shall be replaced or repaired, or if not otherwise required to be maintained by
the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances, shall be completely removed.
      (2)   Any of the following conditions in open places (for purposes of
this section, "open places" are defined as areas of properties or portions
thereof that are open to the exterior, including building openings of
residential dwelling units, such as carports or porches, and any other exterior
portions of properties ordinarily exposed to the outside and/or public view,
including front, side and rear yards).
         (a)   Any litter consisting of man-made and used materials which are
scattered, cast, thrown, blown, placed, swept, or deposited anywhere on a
persistent, continuous or ongoing basis so as to accumulate on any property in
open places. The owner and occupant of any dwelling unit shall exercise
reasonable diligence at all times to keep exterior premises clean of litter,
including glass, bottles, waste paper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons,
package containers, and other used or waste materials intentionally or
unintentionally scattered, discarded, thrown, or haphazardly left on such
premises on a continuous basis, and to prevent same from drifting or blowing to
adjoining premises by removing such waste or ensuring that same is placed in
approved refuse containers and/or locations for collection by the city as
specified in
Title 6,
Chapter 2 of the City Code.
         (b)   Any concentration of unusable building materials, including
concrete, steel or masonry, which due to deterioration or age are no longer
suitable for building construction, alterations or repair, and which are in
open places.
         (c)   Any new and/or worn-out, deteriorated or abandoned household or
office furniture, appliances or other similar products of any kind which are
kept in open places.
         (d)   Any products with jagged edges of metal or glass which are kept
in open places.
         (e)   Any junk, waste materials, unusable building material, trash,
garbage, oily rags, barrels, cans, papers, bricks or brickbats and other
litter, refuse, rubbish or combustible materials which is scattered, cast,
placed or deposited in a yard or yards, so as to constitute an accumulation in
an open area.
(Am. Ord. 99-15, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 5-10-2 THE PRESENCE, ACCUMULATION, STORAGE, OR PLACEMENT OF:.
   (A)   Junk, including but not limited to, deteriorated, unusable or
inoperative furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building materials,
worn out and disused automobiles or parts, tires, or any other man-made items
which are either in whole, or in part, wrecked, junked, disused, worn out,
dismantled or inoperative.
      (1)   Storage of junk shall only be allowed on any properties used for
nonresidential purposes if in compliance with all other city codes, or if not
addressed by a city code, completely enclosed within a building or otherwise
evenly placed or neatly stacked and concealed by a solid fence, cover or other
means so as to not be visible at the property line from abutting properties or
a public street.
      (2)   Storage of junk shall only be allowed on any property used for
residential purposes if completely stored in an enclosed building or limited to
one hundred (100) square feet in area and completely concealed by a solid
fence, cover or other means so as not to be visible at the property line from
abutting properties or a public street, concentrated in one (1) area within the
rear yard and neatly arranged or stacked so as not to exceed six (6) feet in
height.
      (3)   Whether stored on a residential or nonresidential property such
storage of junk shall be maintained in such a manner as to prevent overgrown
grass or weeds or an infestation of wild animals, reptiles and rodents.
   (B)   Usable building materials, unless (I) permitted as an authorized
storage in the Code of Ordinances of the City of Dillon, or (ii) stored on any
nonresidential lot, or (iii) if stored on any nonresidential lot where
construction has stopped or never commenced for a period of one (1) year and
there is not a current, valid outstanding building permit issued for
construction on the residential lot, such storage is inside a completely
enclosed building (if otherwise permitted on the lot) or placed in the rear of
the lot and stored in accordance with §
5-10-2 as set forth above.
   (C)   Construction fill materials, unless such materials are: 1) stored in a
level, safe manner, 2) placed in gently sloped mounds, for a period of time not
to exceed twelve (12) months, or 3) approved by the Code Enforcement Director
as a reasonable landscape feature evidenced by a comprehensive landscape plan
showing such features for legitimate landscape purposes as part of the total
development of the lot.
   (D)   Firewood, except when such storage is neither in excess of a total
area of one hundred (100) square feet nor stacked to a height more than six (6)
feet above the ground.
(Am. Ord. 99-15, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 5-10-3 SITE CLEARING.
   (A)   Intention. This section is intended to regulate the clearing or
removal of woody vegetation of land within the city for the purpose of
preserving the aesthetic appeal of the cityscape, prevent the creation of
potential fire hazards, and to define the responsibility for removing cleared
vegetation and woody debris. This section is not intended to prohibit
agricultural, silviculture, horticulture or nursery operations within the city.
   (B)   Exemptions. The regulations set forth herein shall apply to all real
property within the city limits of Dillon, subject to the following exemptions
as noted below. Application for exception must be made to the Office of Code
Enforcement for the city prior to the commencement of operations.
      (1)   Residential Exemption. Lots equal to or less than one (1) acre that
are zoned Single-Family Residential or Single and Two-Family Residential or
used exclusively for single-family detached or duplex dwelling, shall be
exempt.
      (2)   Agricultural Exemption. Bona fide agricultural operations to clear
land for the purpose of conversion to agricultural operations are exempt,
provided such activity is included in a Conservation Plan written by the
National Resource and Conservation Service (NRCS).
      (3)   Silvicultural Exemption.  Bona fide forest management operations to
harvest trees and to subsequently prepare the site fore reforestation are
exempt, provided:
         (a)   Such activity is in compliance with current Best Management
Practices (BMP’s) for the activity.
         (b)   Such activity is included in a Forest Management Plan written by
a S.C. Registered Forester or a Woodland Conservation Plan written by the NRCS.
In the case of clear-cut timbering operations, the Forest Management Plan shall
also include provisions for reforestation to acceptable forest management
standards by planting or natural regeneration methods within three (3) years
following the clear-cutting operation.
         (c)   The land on which the activity is conducted is currently
classified for agricultural use valuation by Office of the Tax Assessor for
Dillon County and has been so classified for the previous two years.
         (d)   All dead or dying trees over four (4) inches DBH within the
property shall be felled in place or safely removed.
         (e)   Where clear cutting is involved, a fifty (50) foot border of
undisturbed live vegetation and trees is maintained along public right-of-way.
Dead or dying trees are to be pulled, felled or otherwise removed to the tract
or parcel interior, away from the fifty (50) foot border area.
      (4)   Wetlands Mitigation.  The mitigation of wetlands pursuant to a
development order or approved plan from, and the requirement of, the Army Corps
of Engineers and/or any other S.C. government body administering the regulation
of wetlands shall be exempt from this section.
      (5)   Commercial Nursery Operations. Clearing land related to operations
to grow, maintain, and produce plants and trees for commerce are exempt from
this provision provided such operation meets the current zoning requirements.
      (6)   Airports. Clearing land for the purposes of providing safe
clearance for aircraft as required by federal law or the establishment of
facilities exclusively dedicated to safety of aviation operations are excluded
from this section.
      (7)   Utilities.  Land clearing for the purpose of constructing and
maintaining easements or facilities for water, sewer, electricity, gas,
drainage, telephone or television transmissions or right-of- way shall be
exempt from the provisions of this section.
      (8)   Other Considerations. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the cutting, trimming, maintenance and removal of trees or woody
vegetation for the purpose of eliminating, reducing, or mitigating hazards to
public safety.
   (C)   Site Clearing Restrictions.
      (1)   Any property of greater than one (1) acre in size that is cleared
of all vegetation must be approved by the Department of Code Enforcement for
the city prior to the commencement of land clearing operations.
      (2)   All cleared vegetation must be removed from the site or mulched in
place within six (6) months following the site clearing operation. The
Department of Code Enforcement may grant an extension of no more than three (3)
additional months at its discretion.
      (3)   The expense of removal, disposal, or mulching of cleared material
shall be the responsibility of the clearing contractor.
      (4)   No piling or windrowing of cleared debris shall be permitted.
      (5)   Removal or demolition of structures shall be made in compliance
with existing ordinances.
      (6)   Any residual trees in unhealthy or difficult to maintain condition
that would likely constitute a hazard to the public are to be felled, mulched
or removed.
      (7)   Heritage trees with the tract or parcel and trees growing within
the vegetation areas of bordering public right-of-way are subject to the City
Tree Ordinance.
(Ord. 08-17, passed 7-14-2008)
TITLE 6: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Chapter
   
1.   RESERVED
   
2.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL
   
3.   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
   
4.   ANIMALS
   
5.   DANGEROUS ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1: RESERVED
CHAPTER 2: GARBAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL
Section
6-2-1   Collection of Garbage
6-2-2   Bulky Refuse
6-2-3   Accumulation of Refuse
6-2-4   Interference with Containers
6-2-5   Trash Burning
6-2-6   Front Loading Dumpsters; Required
6-2-7   Same; Responsibility for Securing Dumpster
6-2-8   Same; Violations
6-2-9   Same; Collection; Fees
6-2-10   Residential Garbage Pick-up
6-2-11   Maintenance of Mobile Containers; Replacement
6-2-12   Responsibility to Place Garbage for Collection
6-2-13   Excess Solid Waste
6-2-14   Availability and Extension of Service
6-2-15   Collectors to Exercise Reasonable Care
6-2-16   Building Materials, Etc.
6-2-17   Interfering with Collection Practices
6-2-18   Removal of Small Dead Animals
6-2-19   Penalty for Violation
6-2-20   Businesses Located in Residential Zones
6-2-21   Special One-time Garbage Pick-up
6-2-22   Fees; Procedures
6-2-23   Limb Removal
6-2-24   Tires
6-2-25   Billing
6-2-26   Schedule of Fees
§ 6-2-1 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, "garbage" shall mean all putrescible
wastes, including animal and vegetable matter and recognizable industrial by-
products, but excluding sewage, human wastes, dirt and rocks.
   (B)   The city shall provide garbage collection service. Charges for the
service shall be established by the Council. Administration rules and
regulations may be promulgated by the Council as required.
   (C)   Commercial garbage shall be collected from retail and commercial
establishments as scheduled by Council. Garbage and litter shall be placed in
containers provided by the city, and limbs and leaves in neat stacks at pick-up
points as established.
   (D)   Residential garbage shall be collected as scheduled by the Council.
Garbage and litter shall be placed in containers provided by the city, and
limbs and leaves in neat stacks at the pick-up point on the property nearest to
the route of the garbage truck.
   (E)   All dumpsters shall be placed in rear yard areas, side yard areas or
in alleys. No dumpster shall occupy space in a street right-of-way or in an
area so as to be an eyesore or aesthetic blight to the area. Where practical,
dumpsters shall be landscaped. The size of dumpster, number of pickups weekly
and the location of receptacle shall be determined by the Service Director and
confirmed by the City Manager. Should the customer disagree with these
decisions, he may appeal directly to the Council which shall be the final
arbiter in making these necessary determinations.
   (F)   The painting, repair and replacement of these boxes shall be the
responsibility of the city. The cleaning of the box, when necessary, shall be
the responsibility of the user.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-2 BULKY REFUSE.
   Under rules as may be established, bulky items or refuse, such as household
appliances and furniture, may be picked up at additional charge.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-3 ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE.
   (A)   No person shall permit the accumulation of refuse on any premises for
an unreasonable period of time.
(1977 Code, § 6-2003)
   (B)   Placement of materials at the curb side shall be presumed to be
garbage or trash and subject to removal as such with the appropriate
application of a fee, where necessary, without further request of the owner or
notice from the city.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-4 INTERFERENCE WITH CONTAINERS.
   No person shall interfere with garbage cans, bags, recyclables, or other
containers, or their contents, except the owner or with the owner's permission.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-5 TRASH BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn trash, garbage, leaves, grass,
or other refuse within the fire limits of the city without prior approval of
the Fire Chief. Such trash may be placed at the curb side for pick-up by the
city forces on a rotation basis, but generally once a week.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-6 FRONT LOADING DUMPSTERS; REQUIRED.
   (A)   All commercial establishments within city limits (any establishment
requiring a city business license to operate) and any place, office,
establishment and any governmental agency or office, or place, which is located
within a business zoned district, regardless whether the place, office or
establishment is required to have a city business license to operate, shall
obtain a front loading dumpster from the city for rental.
   (B)   All hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, elementary schools, junior and
senior high schools, churches and profit or non-profit service organizations
within the city limits are required to obtain and use a garbage dumpster as in
conformance with (A) above, for each office, place or establishment located in
the city.
   (C)   All apartment houses within the city limits are required to use a
front loading garbage dumpster container for their garbage disposal and pick-up
needs. The container must be large enough to serve its garbage disposal needs
for a minimum pick-up once a week. An "apartment house" is hereby defined as
any structure housing more than three (3) rental units and whereby all of the
families involved are renters.
   (D)   All dumpsters must be placed at a location readily accessible to
garbage trucks and must be located on concrete pads or other hard surface
suitable for any cleaning maintenance. Such concrete pads and pick-up area
shall be provided by the property owner.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-7 SAME; RESPONSIBILITY FOR SECURING DUMPSTER.
   Each separate establishment shall be responsible for renting a front loading
garbage dumpster from the city; and this container shall be large enough to
serve the establishment's garbage needs for a minimum garbage pick-up of once a
week and each establishment shall use this container.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-8 SAME; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In all cases, any establishment found in violation of this chapter
shall be refused the right of garbage pick-up service.
   (B)   The manager, supervisor and/or owner of any establishment found in
violation of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200) or
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days or both. Each day of violation
shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment shall not relieve the offender of
liability for delinquent penalties and costs provided for herein.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998; Am. Ord. 06-18, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 6-2-9 SAME; COLLECTION; FEES.
   (A)   The city shall charge such costs that are necessary and proper to
implement the garbage collection services. Charges for garbage services shall
include collection, disposal, recycling, transportation, transfer station fees,
and rental. The charges for these fees shall be established by Council.
   (B)   All boxes placed inside of the dumpster container must be broken down
(torn apart) and no boxes placed on top of or beside of the containers will be
picked up. The city may refuse to empty any containers which contain boxes
which are not broken down; anyone placing boxes beside of or on top of a
container shall be subject to conviction for violation of the littering
ordinance, and the city may refuse to empty any container which has boxes
placed around or on top of it.
   (C)   Tires may not be placed in any front loading garbage container.
   (D)   The city may refuse to pick up trash at any location if it finds:
      (1)   Tires or other large, foreign matter in the container which may
cause mechanical problems during pick-up or damage to vehicles.
      (2)   A garbage box that is improperly maintained causing refuse to spill
out during loading.
      (3)   Proper concrete pads are not provided or access maintained.
      (4)   The garbage box is improperly sized for the amount of refuse to be
handled on a weekly basis; or
      (5)   The container is not designed to be picked up by a front loading
truck or the container is unauthorized by the Service Department for any
reason.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
Cross Reference:
   Littering, Sec.
6-3-3 et seq.
§ 6-2-10 RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE PICK-UP.
   (A)   The city will furnish initially at no charge one (1) mobile container
toter to each single and duplex family dwelling within the city limits. If an
additional mobile container is required, it may be purchased from the city by
the person ordering the additional container. Each mobile container delivered
to the single or duplex family dwelling is required to remain at that assigned
address until otherwise designated by the Service Department.
   (B)   Apartment buildings of two (2) rental families or a rental family unit
shall receive and use a mobile toter with one (1) for each family to be
delivered, in order to receive garbage and trash pick-up.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-11 MAINTENANCE OF MOBILE CONTAINERS; REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of each household to handle the
maintenance of mobile containers to the degree of which they are capable.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the occupant/user to keep their
individual mobile and bulk containers reasonably clean and free of water.
   (C)   Mobile containers furnished by the city shall remain the property of
the city and are provided and assigned to residences for the health, safety,
convenience and general welfare of the occupants. Containers which are damaged,
destroyed, or stolen through abuse, neglect, or improper use of the occupant/
user shall be replaced by the city at the expense of the occupant or the owner
of the residence. Containers which are damaged, destroyed, or stolen through no
abuse, neglect, or improper use of the occupant/user or residence owner shall
be repaired or replaced by the city at no charge. The container shall not be
damaged, destroyed, defaced or removed from the premises by any person.
Markings and identification devices on the containers, except as placed or
specifically permitted by the city, are expressly prohibited and shall be
regarded as damage to the containers.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-12 RESPONSIBILITY TO PLACE GARBAGE FOR COLLECTION.
   It shall be the responsibility of each household to place their refuse for
collection at the proper time in the proper manner as provided for in this
chapter. No employees of the city shall assist any household in the performance
of its duty, except those residences approved for back door service. All
refuse, as it pertains to single or duplex family residences where mobile
containers are involved, shall be placed at the curb for collection no sooner
than 6:00 a.m. of the day of collection. All mobile containers shall be removed
from the curb no later than 7:00 p.m. the day of collection.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-13 EXCESS SOLID WASTE.
   It is recognized that at certain times excess solid waste will be generated
by the occupant/user above the containerized capability of the mobile
container. This excess shall be bagged or boxed in a throw-away container and
placed neatly beside the mobile container. Occupant/user may be required to
purchase a second container at their expense at the discretion of the Service
Department Director.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-14 AVAILABILITY AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Mobile containers shall be serviced no less than once weekly. No
household shall be entitled to service on more than two (2) mobile toters per
pick-up. Any household which generates more solid waste than can be serviced by
two (2) mobile ninety (90) gallon containers weekly, shall be required to
furnish a bulk container, size to be determined by volume, of the type approved
by the Director of Service Department, provided that such container can be
installed and serviced.
   (B)   Households in which there is no one physically able to roll the mobile
carts to the street for collection will be extended back door service by the
city on a once per week basis. Applications for back door service will be
available from the Service Department, and back door service will be subject to
the approval of the Department Director, City Manager and City Council.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-15 COLLECTORS TO EXERCISE REASONABLE CARE.
   Collectors for the city shall exercise reasonable care in the handling of
mobile and/or bulk containers and shall not wilfully break, deface or injure
the same. Failure to comply with this section will be grounds for dismissal.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-16 BUILDING MATERIALS, ETC.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall use mobile or bulk containers as
a depository for brick, blocks, rocks, hot ashes, acids or any item destructive
to the container from a weight or corrosive standpoint along with residue from
residential or commercial construction. Every contractor, carpenter, or builder
or the property owner, after completing or during the construction or
alteration of a building, must remove all trash incident to such construction
or alteration at his own expense.
(Ord. passed 8/10/81)
   (B)   In the event such material is not properly removed the city reserves
the right to remove all such material at a rate of twice the collection and
disposal fees.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-17 INTERFERING WITH COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   No person shall interfere or otherwise deter the normal refuse collection
process by tampering with the mobile toters or their contents unless by
permission of the Director of the Service Department.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-18 REMOVAL OF SMALL DEAD ANIMALS.
   Small dead animals shall be picked up at the curb on a call basis and shall
not be placed in or adjacent to mobile containers. Owners of large dead animals
shall be responsible for their removal and disposal.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-19 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any household head or individual charged with a violation of any section or
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not
more than two hundred dollars ($200) or imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30)
days or both. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment
shall not relieve the offender of liability for delinquent penalties and costs
provided for herein.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998; Am. Ord. 06-18, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 6-2-20 BUSINESSES LOCATED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   All small businesses, businesses in residentially zoned areas and all
churches, shall purchase, at their own expense, and use a mobile garbage toter
if their garbage and trash needs are not more than one (1) mobile garbage toter
full for weekly pick-up. Cardboard boxes shall be broken down and placed in the
mobile toter and not on top of it or not beside it. Such establishments shall
be subject to the basic garbage charges as contained herein.
   (B)   Any small businesses, business in a residentially zoned area or
church, wanting garbage service, and which would use more garbage than could be
handled by weekly servicing of a ninety (90) gallon mobile garbage toter, must
obtain a metal bulk front loading garbage dumpster. All cardboard boxes must be
placed within the container and not on top of it or beside it. The Service
Director shall determine whether a church, small business, or business in a
residentially zoned area needs a metal front loading dumpster or a mobile
toter, based on his knowledge and information obtained from the sanitation
route workers of previous garbage and trash use. If the city services a metal
dumpster container to such business the charges will be based on the rates
contained herein.
   (C)   The city will not pick up any irregular garbage cans at the places
listed within this section.
   (D)   The owner, operator or legal owner of any property referred to in this
section which at any given time has visible garbage or trash stored outside of
an enclosed structure which is emitting a detectable odor or which is causing
or having a common fly health related problem, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100) or
imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-21 SPECIAL ONE-TIME GARBAGE PICK-UP.
   Special one (1) time garbage pick up will be charged a rate no less than
fifteen dollars ($15) based on the volume of garbage to be removed. This fee
shall be negotiated by the Director of the Service Department of the city.
(Ord. CM-67, passed- -; Am. Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-22 FEES; PROCEDURES.
   Fees determined to be applicable in this chapter shall be billed monthly.
The date due, penalties, and all other procedures shall be subject to such
procedures currently applying to other city utilities. All rates herein are the
discounted rates.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-23 LIMB REMOVAL.
   (A)   Residents shall be entitled to one thousand (1,000) pounds of trash
removal weekly, (limb, branch, leaf, shrub, etc.) when such yard work is
performed by the property owner. Such trash and debris shall be placed at the
curb for pick-up by truck crews of the knunkleboom loader.
   (B)   Professional lawn care and tree removal experts shall obtain a
business license before operating within the city limits. Such individuals
shall remove all limbs, leaves, branches, shrubs, etc. from the property for
proper disposal as a requirement of their job. Such materials are not the
responsibility of the city to remove. In the event such material is not
properly removed the city reserves the right to remove all such materials at a
rate two (2) times the current landfill tonnage charges to cover the handling
and landfill costs.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-24 TIRES.
   Persons or businesses disposing of tires shall pay the city one and one-half
(1-1/2) times the current landfill charges to cover these fees and tire
handling.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-25 BILLING.
   All fees, charges, and rates herein stated or applied from sections of this
chapter may be billed either independently or along with the other utility
charges, at the discretion of the city. Such fees when applied to utility bills
shall be on the first priority and shall be collected before the other charges
contained on that utility bill.
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-2-26 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   
Title 6, Chapter 2, Section 26 of the City of Dillon Code of Ordinances is
hereby amended and that the attached rates will become effective with the July
2025 billing cycle.
   (B)   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption.
   (C)   All ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
City of Dillon
Ordinance # 25-05
Sanitation Rates
Increase 5%
Effective July 2025 Billing
City of Dillon
Ordinance # 25-05
Sanitation Rates
Increase 5%
Effective July 2025 Billing
Dumpster 1 X Week 2 X Week              3 X Week 4 X Week  5 X Week
2YD      $117.40  $117.39               $247.90  $346.97   $412.26
4YD      $172.30  $302.42               $433.15  $694.13   $845.40
6YD      $227.06  $412.38               $618.54  $955.17   $1,174.48
8YD      $281.82  $521.91               $763.64  $1,242.41 $1,482.05
Roll cart residential                   $37.47
Roll cart commercial                    $39.67
Base cost 30YD rental                   $270.74
McLeods base cost per haul to landfill  $291.90
Wal-Mart base cost per haul to landfill $431.83
 
(Ord. 98-15, passed 10-12-1998; Am. Ord. 00-12, passed 6-12-2000; Am. Ord. 01-
11, passed 6-21-2001; Am. Ord. 02-17, passed 7-8-2002; Am. Ord. 03-13, passed
7-14-2003; Am. Ord. 04-09, passed 6-30-2004; Am. Ord. 05-10, passed 7-11-2005;
Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 6-12-2006; Am. Ord. 07-13, passed 6-11-2007; Am. Ord.
08-07, passed 6-9-2008; Am. Ord. 10-08, passed 7-1-2010; Am. Ord. 14-08, passed
7-14-2014; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 6-29-2015; Am. Ord. 16-11, passed 6-30-2016;
Am. Ord. 17-06, passed 6-12-17; Am. Ord. 18-09, passed 6-11-2018; Am. Ord. 19-
03, passed 7-1-2019; Am. Ord. 21-10, passed 6-28-2021; Am. Ord. 22-06, passed
6-30-2022; Am. Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023; Am. Ord. 24-11, passed 6-24-2024;
Am. Ord. 25-05, passed 6-9-2025)
CHAPTER 3: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Section
Article A: Offensive Conditions and Nuisances Generally
6-3-1   Premises to be Kept Clean
6-3-2   City may Clean Premises; Assessment Against Property
6-3-3   Litter Defined
6-3-4   Litter to be Deposited in Proper Receptacles
6-3-5   Litter Not to Be Thrown from Vehicles
6-3-6   Litter on Property
6-3-7   Enforcement
6-3-8   through 6-3-9 Reserved
6-3-10   Posting Property in Which City Has Interest or Regulatory Power
6-3-11   Violation, Penalty
6-3-12   Slum and Blighted Area
6-3-13 through 6-3-20 Reserved
Article B: Offensive Conditions and Nuisances Involving Motor Vehicles
6-3-21   Definition of Terms
6-3-22   Abandonment Unlawful
6-3-23   Removal
6-3-24   Disposition of Vehicles
6-3-25   Junk Motor Vehicles
6-3-26   Disposition with Owner’s Consent
ARTICLE A: OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS AND NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 6-3-1 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   (A)   Periodic Cutting.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or to permit to be
maintained on any premises, including vacant lots or land, upon which grass,
weeds, and undergrowth are permitted or caused to accumulate in any manner
which is or may become a nuisance causing injury to the health or welfare of
residents or to the public in the vicinity or causing injury to neighboring
property.
      (2)   No person owning or being in possession of land within the city
shall fail to keep such property free and clear of all noxious weeds and rank
vegetation on land owned or in his possession whenever such weeds and
vegetation have grown to a height of more than eight (8) inches.
   (B)   Notice To Cut: Action Of Owner Or Tenant.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Manager, or his designate, to
forward a written notice to the owner or other person having possession of or
control over such lands to the effect that such weeds or vegetation may not
exist at present, or in the future, which are in violation of this section.
      (2)   Such notice shall be delivered once annually, and thereafter no
additional notice shall be necessary for such subsequent and repeated
violations of this code section during the calendar year.
      (3)   After initial notification, the city shall wait fourteen (14) days
before such weeds and vegetation may be cut and destroyed, to allow the weeds
and vegetation to be removed privately.
   (C)   Noxious Weeds, Rank Vegetation and Grass Clippings.
      (1)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to place or
allow noxious weeds, rank vegetation and grass clippings to be deposited or
blown onto any streets, roadways, avenues or highways within the jurisdiction
of the city limits.
      (2)   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person to cut their
grass or lawn in such a manner as to allow noxious weeds, rank vegetation and
grass clippings to be deposited onto any streets, roadways, avenues or highways
within the jurisdiction of the city limits.
      (3)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to two hundred
dollars ($200) or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon
conviction. Each day shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for
violation shall not relieve the offender of liability for delinquent penalties
and costs provided for herein.
(1977 Code, § 6-3001) (Am. Ord. 02-07, passed 5-13-2002; Am. Ord. 18-07, passed
6-11-2018)
§ 6-3-2 CITY MAY CLEAN PREMISES; ASSESSMENT AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (A)   Should any property owner fail to keep his property cleared, the city
may cause the property to be kept cleared and in a sanitary condition for
health purposes or cleared for fire prevention, and the expense of cutting,
clearing or cleaning and maintaining this lot shall be an assessment against
the property owner, as provided herein.
   (B)   When the city cuts, clears, maintains or cleans a lot, the charge by
the city shall be seventy-five dollars ($75) minimum, plus charges for
equipment, labor, postage fees, administrative costs and other ancillary fees.
   (C)   When the city contracts with another party to have a lot cut, cleared,
maintained, or cleaned, the city shall charge a fee sufficient to cover the
cost the city pays to the contracted party, and also to cover the city's
expenses for advertising, administrative time and work involved in having the
lot cleaned.
   (D)   Any amount charged for work authorized and completed pursuant to this
section which is not paid within thirty (30) days from proper billing shall be
added to the property owner's annual property tax as a "lot charge," shall
become a part of the property tax due for that year, and shall be collected and
executed upon the same manner as the ad valorem property tax.
(1977 Code, § 6-3001, as amended by Ord. passed 2-8-1982; Am. Ord. 07-19,
passed 9-10-2007)
§ 6-3-3 LITTER DEFINED.
   Litter, as used herein, is garbage, refuse, rubbish or other waste material,
which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to
public health, safety and welfare.
(1977 Code, § 6-4001)
§ 6-3-4 LITTER TO BE DEPOSITED IN PROPER RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street;
sidewalk or other public place within the city except in public receptacles or
in authorized private receptacles for collection or in official city dumps.
   (B)   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or
upon private property.
(1977 Code, § 6-4002)
Cross reference:
   Garbage and refuse disposal, Sec.
6-2-1 et seq.
§ 6-3-5 LITTER NOT TO BE THROWN FROM VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property.
(1977 Code, § 6-4003)
§ 6-3-6 LITTER ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by the person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public
place or upon any private property.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter. Provided, however, that this
section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
   (C)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by the person or not.
§ 6-3-7 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Director is hereby authorized and empowered to notify
the owner of any open or vacant private property within the city or the agent
of the owner to properly dispose of litter located on the owner's property
which is dangerous to public health, safety, or welfare. The notice may be
given in person or by certified mail addressed to the owner at his last known
address. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so notified
to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the public health, safety, or
welfare within ten (10) days after notice given as required herein, the Code
Enforcement Director is hereby authorized and empowered to order the disposal
of the litter by the city.
(1977 Code, § 6-4004) (Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
§§ 6-3-8 and 6-3-9   Reserved
§ 6-3-10 POSTING PROPERTY IN WHICH CITY HAS INTEREST OR REGULATORY POWER.
   It is unlawful to place any advertisement, notice or sign of any nature
excluding political signs on property in which the town has no interest or the
right to regulate, such as telephone poles, telegraph poles, electric poles or
towers, and the like thereof, all political signs must be removed no later than
two (2) weeks after elections.
(Ord.98-17, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-3-11 VIOLATION, PENALTY.
   Any violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and
anyone convicted of violating any of the provisions thereof shall be punished
at the direction of the court as limited by state statutes.
(Ord.98-17, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 6-3-12 SLUM AND BLIGHTED AREA.
   (A)   The following definition of a “slum and blighted area” is adopted for
purposes of designating areas, making applications for funds, and expenditure
of funds for the improvement, preservation, conservation, or redevelopment of
such areas as may be identified by resolution of Council describing the area
and identifying the conditions which meet the standards in the definition.
   (B)   In accordance with state law, a SLUM and BLIGHTED AREA means any
improved or vacant area within identified boundaries located within the
territorial limits of the municipality, which meets state law and the following
CDBG definition: A substantial number of deteriorated or deteriorating building
are present or public improvements are in a general state of deterioration in
the designated area. At least 33% of properties in the area must have one (1)
or more of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Physical deterioration of buildings or improvements;
      (2)   Abandonment of properties;
      (3)   Chronic high turnover or vacancy rates in commercial/industrial
buildings;
      (4)   Significant decline in property values or abnormally low property
values in relation to other areas in the community; or
      (5)   Known or suspected environmental contamination.
(Ord. 08-20, passed 8-11-2008)
§§ 6-3-13 through 6-3-20 Reserved.
ARTICLE B: OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS AND NUISANCES INVOLVING MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 6-3-21 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   (A)   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. For the purpose of this article, a vehicle
shall be determined to have been abandoned under any one (1) or more of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   It has been left unattended or inoperable on public property other
than a public street for more than seventy-two (72) hours, or has remained
illegally on private or public property including a public street for a period
of more than seven (7) days without the consent of the owner or person in
control of the property.
      (2)   Its certificate of registration has expired and the registered and
legal owner no longer resides at the address listed on the last certificate of
registration on record with the department and such owner cannot be found after
a reasonable search.
      (3)   It is incapable of self-propulsion or being moved in the manner for
which it was originally intended and left out of doors in an unenclosed
structure or so located upon the premises as to be readily visible from any
public place or from any surrounding private property.
      (4)   The manufacturer's serial plates, motor vehicle identification
numbers, license number plates and any other means of identification have been
removed so as to nullify efforts to locate or identify the registered and legal
owner.
      (5)   It has been left unattended or inoperable upon a street or highway
in violation of a law or ordinance controlling traffic or prohibiting parking
and constituting a hazard to life or property.
      (6)   Its registered and legal owner of record disclaims ownership or
releases his rights thereto.
   (B)   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is dismantled, partially
dismantled, inoperative, or discarded shall be deemed a junk motor vehicle.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 6-3-22 ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any motor vehicle, including
junk motor vehicles, on any private street, right-of-way or public grounds or
upon any privately owned property; and it shall be unlawful for any person,
including an owner or occupant, controlling privately owned property to abandon
or to permit the abandonment thereupon of any motor vehicle.
State Law Reference:
   Authority of police to remove illegally parked vehicles, S.C. Code § 56-5-
2520
   Removal of abandoned vehicles from highway, S.C. Code §§ 56-5-5810 et seq.
§ 6-3-23 REMOVAL.
   The person responsible, or the registered owner of any such vehicle if such
can be determined after a reasonable search, or the owner of the premises on
which such vehicle is located, or all, shall be given notice as prescribed in
this article to remove and dispose of an abandoned vehicle at his own expense,
or he shall be in violation of this article.
   (A)   Public Property. If such person or owner cannot be determined or has
not complied with the time prescribed by the notice, such vehicle, if located
on public property, at the discretion of the city, may be removed to a storage
area for safekeeping at the direction of the city. Written notice of such
removal shall be promptly given to the registered owner of the vehicle and to
any holders of any lien on record in the office of the State Department of
Motor Vehicles, if such can be determined after a reasonable search. The city
may remove such vehicles without prior notice when such vehicles constitute a
safety hazard or other public nuisance.
   (B)   Private Property. If located on private property, no such vehicle
shall be so removed from such premises by the city without the written
authorization of the owner of the vehicle, if known, or the owner, lessee or
occupant of the premises, unless the vehicle has been declared by order of the
environmental administrator, after due notice and hearing before the municipal
court, to be a safety hazard or other public nuisance. Such order may be
appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within ten (10) days by an
aggrieved party. Upon the issuance of such order, the costs or removal and
disposal may be assessed against the person responsible for the nuisance, and
such costs may be placed as a lien against his property.
§ 6-3-24 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner of any removed vehicle, before obtaining possession thereof,
shall pay to the city all reasonable costs incidental to its removal, storage
or the locating of the owner.
   (B)   Should such owner fail or refuse to pay the costs within twenty (20)
days after receipt of the notice, or should his identity or whereabouts be
unknown and unascertainable after a reasonable search and after notice as
prescribed in §
6-3-23, the stored vehicle may be sold after twenty (20) days' notice has been
given to the Department of Motor Vehicles before the date of the sale and after
the vehicle has been held for not less than thirty (30) days; provided,
further, that §
6-3-25 shall govern disposition of any junk motor vehicles.
   (C)   The vehicle may be sold by public sale, after one (1) public notice
published in a newspaper of general circulation, but no vehicle may be sold or
disposed of until its value has been determined in writing by at least two (2)
disinterested dealers or garage men.
   (D)   A vehicle of an appraised value of less than fifty dollars ($50) may
be disposed of by any means in the discretion of the storing agent of the city.
   (E)   The proceeds of any sale shall be forwarded to the City Finance
Director, who shall pay from the proceeds the costs of removal, storage,
investigation as to ownership and sale and other liens, in that order. If after
the sale the ownership at the time of removal if established satisfactorily to
the City Manager, the owner shall be paid so much of the proceeds as remains
after payment of the foregoing costs and liens; otherwise, any remaining
proceeds shall be deposited after ninety (90) days in the general fund of the
city.
§ 6-3-25 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The person responsible, or the owner of the premises on which such
vehicle is located, or the registered owner of any such vehicle if such can be
determined after reasonable search, or all, shall be given notice as prescribed
in this article to remove and dispose of the vehicle at his own expense, or he
shall be in violation of this article. If such person or owner cannot be
determined or has not complied within the time prescribed by the notice, any
such vehicle at the discretion of the city may be removed from public property
to a storage area for safekeeping at the direction of the city. No such vehicle
shall be so removed from privately owned premises without the written
authorization of the registered owner of the vehicle, if known, or the owner,
lessee or occupant of the premises, unless the vehicle has been declared by
order of the judge, after due notice and hearing before the municipal court, to
be a safety hazard or other public nuisance. Such order may be appealed to a
court of competent jurisdiction within ten days by an aggrieved party. Upon the
issuance of such order, the costs of its removal and disposal may be assessed
against the person responsible for the nuisance, and such costs may be placed
as a lien against his property.
   (B)   A junk motor vehicle may be posted in place, and its owner may reclaim
it by exhibiting reasonable proof of ownership and paying all reasonable costs
incident to its removal, storage and administrative expenses. An unclaimed junk
motor vehicle may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of in summary manner after
twenty (20) days following possession of such vehicle under the provisions of
this article. Notice shall be promptly given after final disposition to the
state department of motor vehicles on such forms as it provides that it was
deemed a junk motor vehicle and disposed of as such. This notice shall fully
and accurately describe said vehicle. Any proceeds derived from such
disposition of junk motor vehicles shall be deposited in the general fund of
the city.
State Law Reference:
   Removal and disposition of abandoned or derelict motor vehicles, S.C. Code
§§ 56-5-5810 et seq.
§ 6-3-26 DISPOSITION WITH OWNER'S CONSENT.
   With a vehicle owner's written consent, the city at its own discretion may
remove and immediately dispose of any vehicle as a junk motor vehicle
regardless of value or condition of the vehicle and without waiting the
aforesaid periods. Costs may be assessed to the vehicle owner.
CHAPTER 4: ANIMALS
Section
Article A: General Provisions
6-4-1   Domestic Animals and Fowl at Large
6-4-2   Keeping Cows and Hogs
6-4-3   Killing or Molesting Birds
6-4-4   Vicious Animals
6-4-5   Cruelty to Animals
6-4-6   Animals Constituting a Nuisance
6-4-7   Raising and Keeping Farm Animals Prohibited
6-4-8   Raising and Keeping Chickens and Fowl within Residential Districts of
the City Limits
Article B: Dogs
6-4-9   Definitions
6-4-10   Limitation on number of dogs
6-4-11   Rabies Inoculation Required
6-4-12   Tag Indicating Inoculation; to be Fastened to Dog Collar
6-4-13   Duty of Owner When Dog Develops Symptoms of Rabies
6-4-14   Leash Law
6-4-15   Vicious or Diseased Dogs
6-4-16   Bitches in Heat
6-4-17   Impoundment
6-4-18   Biting Dog
6-4-19   Records to be Kept
6-4-20   Violations
Article C: Cats
6-4-23   Definitions
6-4-24   Limitation on Number of Cats
6-4-25   Rabies Inoculation Required
6-4-26   Tag Indicating an Inoculation; to Be Fastened to Cat Collar
6-4-27   Duty of Owner When Cat Develops Symptoms of Rabies
6-4-28   Allowing Cats to Run at Large; Penalty
6-4-29   Vicious Cats
6-4-30   Notices of Violations
6-4-31   Violations
ARTICLE A: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-4-1 DOMESTIC ANIMALS AND FOWL AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any domestic animal or fowl to
run at large on the streets or in public places of the city. This section shall
not be construed to apply to dogs.
(1977 Code, § 5-1)
State Law Reference:
   Domestic animals at large, S.C. Code § 47-4-110
§ 6-4-2 KEEPING COWS AND HOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or have in his
possession upon his premises within the city any hogs or cows; provided,
however, that any person may apply to the Police Department for a permit to
maintain and keep upon his premises hogs or cows, and may be permitted upon
application to keep or maintain hogs or cows; provided further, that in no case
may any person keep, have or maintain any hogs upon his premises within three
hundred (300) feet of the home or living quarters of any other person within
the city, nor any cows upon his premises within one hundred and twenty-five
(125) feet of the home or living quarters of any other person within the city.
(1977 Code, § 6-5002)
§ 6-4-3 KILLING OR MOLESTING BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or shoot or to attempt to shoot
or molest birds in the city in any manner.
(1977 Code, § 6-5003)
§ 6-4-4 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to allow
any vicious or dangerous animal of any kind to run at large, within the city.
(1977 Code, § 6-5004)
§ 6-4-5 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor, or person having the charge,
custody or control of any animal, to cruelly drive, beat, ill-treat, wound,
torture or mutilate, or to cruelly kill or abandon any animal or work the
animal when unfit for labor, or to overload, or to deprive the animal of proper
and necessary food and shelter, or otherwise to cruelly abuse, maltreat or fail
to protect or feed the animal within the city.
(1977 Code, § 6-5005)
State Law Reference:
   Cruelty to animals, S.C. Code §§ 47-1-10 et seq.
§ 6-4-6 ANIMALS CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   No person living within the city limits shall keep any animal or animals
which constitute a nuisance. A nuisance shall hereby be defined as any of the
following: continuous barking by an animal, the presence of odors and/or
unsanitary conditions of animals, animal pens or houses, the endangering or
molesting of passersby by an animal. A nuisance is not to be limited just to
the above listed items.
(1977 Code, § 6-5006)
Cross reference:
   Noise created by animals, Sec.
9-2-6(A)(3)
§ 6-4-7 RAISING AND KEEPING FARM ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and prohibited for any person to raise, keep,
maintain or have in his or her possession any farm animals such as, but not
limited to chickens, turkeys, hogs, pigs, cows, horses, donkeys, mules, goats,
and sheep upon any premises within the jurisdiction of the city limits.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to five hundred
dollars ($500) or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon
conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for
violation shall not relieve the offender of liability for delinquent penalties
and costs provided for herein.
(Ord. 18-11, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 6-4-8 RAISING AND KEEPING CHICKENS AND FOWL WITHIN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS OF
THE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person
within residential districts of the city limits to keep, or allow or permit the
keeping of, or possession of any chicken, poultry, birds, peacocks, pea fowl,
guineas, ducks, geese, goose, gander, or other fowl, except as provided and
specified in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The following shall be accepted and exempt from the provisions of
division (A).
      (1)   Zoos, fairs, shows, and like exhibits issued permits by the city
for the showing and keeping of such fowl.
      (2)   Parrots, parakeets, cockatoos, cockatiels, lovebirds, and similar
indoor pet birds actually kept in a residence in confinement, if in compliance
with local, state, and federal laws and regulations.
      (3)   Water fowl on any public lake or pond, or other lake or pond used
by the public, such as a subdivision lake or pond.
      (4)   No more than four (4) domesticated female chickens (hens) shall be
kept, maintained, or raised on lots with single-family dwellings only. In no
event shall the number of hens on any single premises or lot exceed more than
four (4). No roosters whatsoever shall be allowed. The following are additional
requirements regarding the maintenance of domesticated female chickens.
         (a)   Domesticated female chickens must be confined in a coop not more
than thirty-six (36) inches in height and with a square footage or floor area
not to exceed eight (8) square feet, connected to a run of not more than twenty
(20) square feet. The total area for the coop and run area shall not exceed one
hundred (100) square feet. Coops must be completely enclosed and constructed in
a uniform manner of a sturdy material that provides protection from potential
predators and the elements, and properly ventilated. Runs must be constructed
of a fencing material that prevents potential predators from getting in, and
hens from escaping.
         (b)   Runs and coops must be well drained so that there is no
accumulation of chicken excrement, and shall be cleaned on a regular basis with
all droppings and excretion disposed of in a manner so as not to attract flies
or varmints, unless otherwise disposed of in accordance with any federal,
state, or health regulation.
         (c)   Chickens, coops, runs, or other structures for housing chickens
shall only be located or permitted between the rear of the principal structure
and the rear lot line of the premises; must be screened from the side and rear
lot lines by shrubbery or a privacy fence at least five (5) feet tall; and
shall not be located within fifteen (15) feet of any property line and sixty
(60) feet of the nearest residence or commercial building.
         (d)   No person shall slaughter any chickens on the premises. It shall
be unlawful to raise chickens for commercial purposes within the city limits,
or to sell eggs laid by chickens kept in the city limits. All eggs laid by the
chickens must be utilized on the premises.
         (e)   Chicken coops, runs, or other structures for housing chickens
shall not constitute an accessory structure.
         (f)   No person shall keep chickens on his premises within the city
without first obtaining a completed and approved application (renewable
annually) on June 30 of each year, along with an initial and annual compliance
inspection, and payment of a five dollars ($5) registration fee as set by the
City Council.
         (g)   No person shall keep chickens on his premises within the city
without first obtaining written permission from abutting property owners in the
initial application process.
         (h)   A permit to keep hens may be suspended, revoked, or not issued
by the city where there is a risk to public health or safety, or for any
violation of, or failure to comply with, any provision of other applicable
ordinances or laws, including local subdivision covenants.
   (C)   Every person keeping, maintaining, or raising chickens and/or fowls
within the corporate limits of the city on a lot, area, plot, parcel, or tract
of land prior to or on the effective date of this section shall conform to and
be in full compliance with the regulations of this section within ninety (90)
days after its passage.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to five hundred
dollars ($500) or imprisonment for not more than thirty (30) days upon
conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability for
delinquent penalties and costs provided herein.
(Ord. 18-13, passed 10-8-2018)
ARTICLE B: DOGS
§ 6-4-9 DEFINITIONS.
   Except when definitions are specifically included in the text of this
ordinance, words used in this ordinance shall have their customary meaning as
defined in a standard dictionary, unless they are specifically defined in this
ordinance.
   DOG. Any member of the canine species, male or female, neutered or
unneutered.
(Ord. 07-16,passed 9-10-2007)
§ 6-4-10 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor more than three (3)
dogs over the age of six (6) months on any lot, premises, dwelling, building,
or structure within residential districts or areas of the city limits.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 6-4-11 RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or have in his possession any dog
which does not have a current valid rabies inoculation administered by a
licensed veterinarian.
(1977 Code, § 6-5011)
State Law Reference:
   Rabies control, S.C. Code §§ 47-5-10 et seq.
§ 6-4-12 TAG INDICATING INOCULATION; TO BE FASTENED TO DOG COLLAR.
   Any veterinarian inoculating a dog in §
6-4-11 shall deliver to the owner or person in possession of the dog a metal
tag, serially numbered, which tag shall indicate inoculation against rabies and
the year of the inoculation. This tag shall at all times be kept fastened to
the collar of the dog and it shall be unlawful for the owner of the dog to
permit the dog to be at large without the tag.
(1977 Code, § 6-5012)
State Law Reference:
   Tags indicating inoculation, S.C. Code §§ 47-5-60
§ 6-4-13 DUTY OF OWNER WHEN DOG DEVELOPS SYMPTOMS OF RABIES.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning, or having in his possession, any
dog which develops any symptoms of rabies to immediately notify the county
health officer of the condition, to immediately confine the dog securely in a
manner that there will be no opportunity for it to come in contact with any
other animals, and to keep the dog so confined and segregated until the person
is notified by the health officer that it can be again set at liberty, or until
some other disposition is made of the dog by the health officer.
(1977 Code, § 6-5013)
State Law Reference:
   Confinement, S.C. Code § 47-5-100
   Notice of animal affected or suspected of rabies, S.C. Code § 47-5-80
§ 6-4-14 LEASH LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog to allow
the dog to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tag or not, within the
city. Any and all such dogs found running at large, whether wearing a collar
and tag or not, shall be immediately impounded by officers of the city.
   (B)   Any dog is considered running at large and not under immediate control
if it is not on a leash restrained by a competent person. A dog is under
control when it is in a vehicle driven or parked, or confined within the
property limits of his or her owner.
   (C)   Whenever any dog is adjudged to be vicious by the municipal court and
is subsequently found at large, it shall be the duty of the Police Department
to kill the dog.
(Am. Ord. 24-01, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 6-4-15 VICIOUS OR DISEASED DOGS.
   (A)   Any dog that has attacked and bitten a person or other animal without
provocation or has attempted to bite a person or other animal without
provocation shall be deemed a vicious dog.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany or be
responsible for the presence of any vicious or diseased dog on the streets or
public places of the city or allow the dog to run on the premises of another,
at any time; unless in addition to other requirements of this chapter the dog
shall be securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from biting any person or
other animal.
§ 6-4-16 BITCHES IN HEAT.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or any person having the control of any
bitch to securely confine her and keep her concealed from view while she is in
heat. It shall be the duty of any police officer to kill any bitch in heat
found running at large on any street or public place in the city.
(1977 Code, § 6-5015)
§ 6-4-17 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The dog catcher or any police officer of the city shall have power
within his discretion to take up and confine or destroy any dog which he may
have reason to believe is rabid, badly maimed or is in violation of other
sections of this article.
   (B)   Any dog seized or impounded under any provision of this section shall
be detained in the city or county animal shelter. The officers, agents, and
employees of the city shall notify the owner of such dog, if known or if they
can be reasonably ascertained, that the dog has been impounded.
      (1)   The owner of any dog impounded one (1) or more times may within a
six (6) month period and within three (3) days after notification reclaim such
dog upon the payment of a twenty-five dollar ($25) fine; plus payment of five
dollars ($5) for each day of impoundment; and payment for the cost of a rabies
inoculation and tag, if such is needed.
   (C)   In the event the dog is not claimed in the time provided herein, the
city may offer for the adoption by any person any dog unredeemed or unclaimed
by the owner upon payment of the costs as provided herein, and the cost of a
rabies inoculation and tag, if such is needed.
   (D)   If the dog is not claimed by the owner within the time prescribed
herein, then the city shall be authorized to dispose of the dog in as humane
and painless a manner as possible.
(Ord. CM-90-2, passed 3-13-1990; Am. Ord. 06-08, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 6-4-18 BITING DOG.
   Whenever a case of dog bite occurs to person or dog, the dog involved shall
be confined and quarantine for ten (10) days observation within the Dillon
County Animal Shelter or shall be confined and quarantine for ten (10) days
observation to the owner property limits (i.e., fenced yard, pen, pet shelter),
in such a way so that there will be no opportunity for the dog to reach persons
on land not controlled by the owner to include public street and road rights-of
way. In the event any owner of any dog shall fail or refuse to comply with this
regulation the animal control officer shall cause the dog to be euthanize.
(Am. Ord. 23-21, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 6-4-19 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   The city shall obtain from the local veterinarians a record of all dogs
inoculated by the veterinarians and keep the record on file.
§ 6-4-20 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever in this ordinance, any person violating any provision of this
chapter where not specific penalty is provided therefore, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment not to exceed thirty
(30) days or both. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues
constitutes a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability and costs provided for herein.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 9-10-2007)
ARTICLE C: CATS
§ 6-4-23 DEFINITIONS.
   Except when definitions are specifically included in the text of this
article, words used in this article shall have their customary meaning as
defined in a standard dictionary, unless they are specifically defined in this
section.
   CAT. Any member of the feline species, male or female, neutered or
unneutered.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-24 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor more than three (3)
cats over the age of six (6) months or more than one (1) litter of kittens
under the age of six (6) months on any lot, premises, dwelling, building, or
structure within residential districts of the city limits.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-25 RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or have in his possession any cat
which does not have a current valid rabies inoculation administered by a
licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-26 TAG INDICATING AN INOCULATION; TO BE FASTENED TO CAT COLLAR.
   Any veterinarian inoculating a cat in §
6-4-25 shall deliver to the owner or person in possession of the cat a metal
tag, serially numbered, which tag shall indicate inoculation against rabies and
the year of the inoculation. This tag shall at all times be kept fastened to
the collar of the cat and it shall be unlawful for the owner of the cat to
permit the cat to be at large without the tag.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-27 DUTY OF OWNER WHEN CAT DEVELOPS SYMPTOMS OF RABIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person owning, or having in his
possession, any cat which develops any symptoms of rabies to immediately notify
the county health officer of the condition, to immediately confine the cat
securely in a manner that there will be no opportunity for it to come in
contact with any other animals, and to keep the cat so confined and segregated
until the person is notified by the health officer that it can be again set at
liberty, or until some other disposition is made of the cat by the health
officer.
   (B)   The animal control officer or any police officer of the city shall
have power within his discretion to take up and confine or euthanize any cat
running at large which he may have reason to believe is rabid or badly maimed.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-28 ALLOWING CATS TO RUN AT LARGE; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any cat to allow
the cat to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tag or not, within the
city limits.
   (B)   Any cat is considered running at large and not under immediate control
if it is not on a leash, cord or similar restraint beside a competent person or
within six (6) feet of a competent person and obedient to that person’s
commands. A cat is under control when it is in a vehicle driven or parked, or
confined within the property limits of his or her owner.
   (C)   The owner or possessor of any and all such cats found running at
large, whether wearing a collar and tag or not, shall be upon conviction,
punished by a fine of up to fifty dollars ($50) for first offense and not more
than one hundred dollars ($100) for each subsequent offense. Each day upon
which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability and costs
provided for herein.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-29 VICIOUS CATS.
   (A)   Any cat that has attacked and bitten a person or other animal without
provocation or has attempted to bite a person or other animal without
provocation shall be deemed a vicious cat.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany, or be
responsible for the presence of any vicious or diseased cat on the streets or
public places of the city or allow the cat to run on the premises of another,
at any time.
   (C)   Whenever any cat is adjudged to be vicious by the municipal court and
is subsequently found at large, it shall be the duty of the police department
to euthanize the cat.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-30 NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   When the owner or possessor of any cat shall have failed to comply
with the provisions of this article, the animal control officer shall mail or
have hand delivered a certified letter to the person responsible and in control
of the premises where the violation has occurred containing a brief statement
of the reasons for violation of this article and a copy of the applicable
provisions.
   (B)   Failure to comply by abatement of the violation within fourteen (14)
days after receipt of the certified letter shall result in a municipal
ordinance summons to be issued upon any person owning, or having in his
possession, any cat which is in violation of this article.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 6-4-31 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever in this article, any person violating any provision of this chapter
where no specific penalty is provided therefor, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction must be punished up to the maximum fines and
penalties as allowed by the South Carolina Code of Laws that may be imposed in
a municipal or magistrate’s court for each subsequent offense. Each day upon
which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability and costs
provided for herein.
(Ord. 06-17, passed 9-11-2006)
CHAPTER 5: DANGEROUS ANIMALS
Section
6-5-1   Prohibited; Exceptions
6-5-2   Impoundment
6-5-3   Signage, Fence and Leash Requirement for Guard Dogs or Attack Dogs
6-5-4   Insurance Requirements for Guard Dogs or Attack Dogs
6-5-5   Pitt Bull Dog Presumed Dangerous
6-5-6   Pit Bull Dog Must be Registered
6-5-7   Registration Fee
6-5-8   Fence Required
6-5-9   Pit Bull Dogs Prohibited on the Streets, Public Rights-of-Way, Public
Places of the City or on the Premises of Another; Exceptions
6-5-10   Pit Bull Dog Impoundment
6-5-11   Fines
§ 6-5-1 PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or act as custodian
of a dangerous animal within the corporate limits of the city. This section
shall not be applicable to guard dogs.
§ 6-5-2 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Determination of Dangerous Animals.  The animal control officer shall
have the authority to determine if an animal is a dangerous animal. In making
such determination the animal control officer shall take into consideration the
following factors, which are listed by way of illustration and not limitation:
the animal's behavior, its size, its temperament, its breed, and its capacity
for inflicting serious injury; the adequacy of the enclosure or confinement of
the animal, if any; the likelihood that the conditions pertaining to the animal
and the animal's confinement are detrimental to the safety or welfare of
citizens, or peace and tranquility of citizens, in the immediate surrounding
area; that there is a child under the age of twelve (12) who lives in close
proximity or walks by or is otherwise in close proximity to the property
occupied by the animal; that the animal has bitten a human being or domestic
animal without provocation or a trespass or has approached a person in an
apparent attitude of attack; that the animal has a known propensity,
reputation, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to
otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals; or other
similar factors which would be relevant to a determination of whether or not
the animal is dangerous.
   (B)   Impoundment and Notice to Owner. After making a determination that an
animal is a dangerous animal, the animal control officer or his designee shall
have the authority to immediately impound the animal. Upon impounding, the
animal control officer shall immediately notify the owner in writing that he
has determined that the animal is a dangerous animal and that the animal has
been impounded and will be humanely destroyed unless the owner appeals his
determination to the City Manager, in writing, within five (5) days from the
date of notice. If the owner is not known, the animal control officer shall
impound the dangerous animal for fifteen (15) days and shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner. If the owner cannot be located, the dangerous
animal shall be humanely destroyed after the impoundment for a fifteen (15) day
period.
   (C)   Appeals; Redemption. If any person shall inform the animal control
officer of the existence of an allegedly dangerous animal, the animal control
officer shall investigate to determine if the animal is a dangerous animal as
defined in this chapter. The person alleging that the animal is dangerous shall
provide supporting information within five (5) days of making such allegation.
Any owner of an animal that has been declared by the animal control officer to
be a dangerous animal shall have the right to appeal this decision to the City
Manager by requesting a hearing by the City Manager or his designee. The
request for hearing must be in writing and delivered to the City Manager's
office within five (5) days after notice from the animal control officer as
provided for in this section. If, after hearing, the City Manager or his
designee determines that the animal is a dangerous animal, the aggrieved owner
shall have five (5) days to appeal the City Manager's adverse decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction. If the City Manager or his designee determines
that the animal is not a dangerous animal, the animal shall be immediately
returned to the owner without cost, except that the owner must comply with the
other provisions of this chapter relating to his animal. If an appeal is made
to a court of competent jurisdiction, the owner shall have the right to redeem
the animal, unless the animal has attacked or bitten a human being or domestic
animal, in which case no redemption shall be had by the owner. In order to
redeem a dangerous animal as provided in this section, the owner must prove to
the satisfaction of the animal control officer that the dangerous animal will
be securely confined, must make payment of all costs incurred by the city in
impounding and caring for the animal, must comply with or provide proof of
compliance with all other provisions of this chapter, and must have in effect a
general liability insurance policy insuring against liability resulting from
acts of the animal, naming the owner as insured and also naming the city as an
additional insured in an amount not less than five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000) per occurrence and one million dollars ($1,000,000) aggregate
combined single limit for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as Insurance Service Office Form CG-00-01-
85. Any insurance policy provided to the city in satisfaction of the
requirements of this section shall specifically provide that the insurers shall
provide written notice to the city at least thirty (30) days prior to
cancellation, termination or modification of the coverage provided to the city.
Upon expiration of the right of the owner or of the city to appeal the
determination of an animal as being dangerous, the animal shall immediately be
returned to the owner, without cost, if the animal has been determined not to
be a dangerous animal, and if previously redeemed, the redemption requirements
of this section shall be terminated. Upon termination of the right of the owner
or of the city to appeal the determination of an animal as being dangerous, the
animal shall be immediately and humanely destroyed by the animal control
officer, if the animal has been determined to be a dangerous animal. The owner
shall then be liable to the city for all costs incurred by the city in
impounding and caring for the animal, if the animal has been determined to be a
dangerous animal.
(Am. Ord. 07-04, passed 5-14-2007)
§ 6-5-3 SIGNAGE, FENCE AND LEASH REQUIREMENT FOR GUARD DOGS OR ATTACK DOGS.
   (A)   All owners, keepers, harborers, lessees or custodians of any guard dog
or attack dog shall display in a prominent place on their premises, and at each
entrance or exit to the area in which such dog is confined, a sign, easily
readable by the public, using the words "Beware of Dog" or wording of similar
import in letters at least two (2) inches in height.
   (B)   All owners, keepers, harborers, lessees or custodians of any guard dog
or attack dog shall securely contain, enfence, restrain and confine said animal
at all times as follows:
      (1)   While enclosed in the dwelling of its owner, it shall be secured so
that it cannot run outside freely; and
      (2)   While located outdoors on the property of its owner, it shall be
enclosed in an above ground fence of no less than six (6) feet in height above
the ground's surface and below the ground's surface as needed to prevent dig
outs; and
      (3)   While located off the property of its owner or keeper, it shall be
unlawful for said dog to run at large and the dog shall be on a leash not
exceeding seven (7) feet in length and shall at all times remain under the
control of the person accompanying the dog.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any guard dog or attack dog owned or
used by law enforcement agencies.
(Am. Ord. 22-04, passed 5-9-2022)
§ 6-5-4 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR GUARD DOGS OR ATTACK DOGS.
   The owner of any guard dog which protects property in the city shall
maintain a general liability insurance policy insuring against liability
resulting from acts of the dog while performing as guardian of the property
upon which the dog is located in an amount not less than three hundred thousand
($300,000) aggregate combined single limit for bodily injury, personal injury
and property damage.
§ 6-5-5 PIT BULL DOG PRESUMED DANGEROUS.
   There shall be an irrefutable presumption that any dog that is Pit Bull is a
dangerous dog and is therefore subject to the requirements of this ordinance.
Pit Bull dog means and includes any of the following dogs:
   (A)   The Staffordshire Bull Terrier breed of dogs.
   (B)   The American Staffordshire Terrier breed of dogs.
   (C)   The American Pit Bull Terrier breed of dogs.
   (D)   Dogs that have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominantly of the breed of dogs known as Staffordshire Bull terrier,
American Pit Bull Terrier, or American Staffordshire Terrier.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 5-14-2007; Am. Ord. 08-05, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 6-5-6 PIT BULL DOG MUST BE REGISTERED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or have in their possession any
pit bull dog within the city limits of Dillon which does not have a current
registration tag from the city Police Department. It shall be the duty of any
person within the city limits of Dillon owning or having in his possession any
pit bull dog, to immediately register their dog with the city Police Department
within six (6) months after adoption of this section.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 6-5-7 REGISTRATION FEE.
   The owner shall pay a registration fee of five dollars ($5) for a metal tag
per each dog. this metal tag shall at all times be kept fastened to the collar
of the pit bull dog and shall display the serial number and the year of
registration. Each registration tag shall expire on June 30 of each year.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 6-5-8 FENCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or have in his possession any pit
bull dog within the city limits of Dillon that is not confined to the owner
property limits by a fence in the height of six (6) foot which cannot be
buckled or moved by the pit bull dog running into the fence. Such fence shall
be of brick, masonry, or other material with a minimum total area of not less
than one hundred (100) square feet and having a life expectancy of not less
than ten (10) years constructed in such a way to prevent the pit bull dog from
easily climbing over or going under the fence so that there will be no
opportunity for the pit bull dog to reach persons on land not controlled by the
owner.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 6-5-9 PIT BULL DOGS PROHIBITED ON THE STREETS, PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY, PUBLIC
PLACES OF THE CITY OR ON THE PREMISES OF ANOTHER; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be prohibited and unlawful for any person within the city limits of
Dillon to have in his possession any pit bull dog on the streets, public
rights-of-way, public places of the city or on the premises of another, at any
time, whether wearing a collar and registration tag or not; unless the pit bull
dog is on a leash and is under immediate control of a competent person and is
obedient to that person’s commands.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 6-5-10 PIT BULL DOG IMPOUNDMENT.
   Pit bull dogs found to be in violation of this chapter or pit bull dogs not
confined to the premises of the owner in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be presumed dangerous and shall be immediately impounded by the
Animal Control Officer or any police officer in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-05, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 6-5-11 FINES.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction must be punished up to the maximum fines and
penalties as allowed by the South Carolina Code of Laws that may be imposed in
a municipal or magistrate’s court for each subsequent offense. Each day upon
which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability and costs
provided for herein.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 5-14-2007; Am. Ord. 08-05, passed 5-12-2008)
TITLE 7: LICENSING AND REGULATION
Chapter
   
1.   BUSINESS LICENSES
   
2.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
   
3.   SOLICITORS
   
4.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
   
5.   TAXICABS
   
6.   FRANCHISES
   
7.   YARD SALES
   
8.   LOCAL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
   
9.   LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX
CHAPTER 1: BUSINESS LICENSES
State Law Reference:
   Authority to establish business license tax based on gross receipts, S.C.
Code § 5-7-30
Section
7-1-1   License Required
7-1-2   Definitions
7-1-3   Purpose and Duration
7-1-4   Business License Tax, Refund
7-1-5   Registration Required
7-1-6   Deductions, Exemptions and Charitable Organizations
7-1-7   False Application Unlawful
7-1-8   Display and Transfer
7-1-9   Administration of Chapter
7-1-10   Inspection and Audits
7-1-11   Assessments, Payment Under Protest, Appeal
7-1-12   Delinquent License Taxes, Partial Payment
7-1-13   Notices
7-1-14   Denial of License
7-1-15   Suspension or Revocation of License
7-1-16   Appeals to City Council
7-1-17   Consent, Franchise or License Required for Use of Streets
7-1-18   Confidentiality
7-1-19   Violations
7-1-20   Severability
7-1-21   Classification and Rates
7-1-22   Business License Tax on Telecommunications
7-1-23   Gross Income From Interstate Commerce Taxed
7-1-24   Telecommunication Tax and Fees
7-1-25   Rate for Business License
7-1-26   Exemptions Repealed
7-1-27   Agreement with Municipal Association
7-1-28   Insurance Companies
§ 7-1-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession, or activity, engaged in with the object of gain,
benefit, or advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of the City of
Dillon, South Carolina, is required to pay an annual license tax for the
privilege of doing business, and obtain a business license as herein provided.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-2 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed herein:
   BUSINESS means any business, calling, occupation, profession, or activity
engaged in with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION means an organization that is determined by the
Internal Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C.
Section 501(c)(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE means a benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
eleemosynary purpose that does not result in personal gain to a sponsor,
organizer, officer, director, trustee, or person with ultimate control of the
organization.
   CLASSIFICATION means that division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to
the same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay
based on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships
of services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL means the City Council of the City of Dillon.
   DOMICILE means a principal place from which the trade or business of a
licensee is conducted, directed, or managed. For purposes of this chapter, a
licensee may be deemed to have more than one domicile.
   GROSS INCOME means the gross receipts or gross revenue of a business,
received or accrued, for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be
collected from business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a
domicile within the municipality, business done within the municipality shall
include all gross receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If
the licensee does not have a domicile within the municipality, business done
within the municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received
or accrued within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a
business license tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee's
gross income for the purpose of computing the tax within the municipality must
be reduced by the amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or
municipality and fully reported to the municipality. Gross income for business
license tax purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental
entity, escrow funds, or funds that are the property of a third party. The
value of bartered goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in gross
income. The gross receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may
be verified by inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal
Revenue Service, the South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina
Department of Insurance, or other government agencies. In calculating gross
income for certain businesses, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Gross income for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered gross income.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code § 38-7-20, gross
income for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   Gross income for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of: (i) gross
revenues or receipts received or accrued from business done at the location;
(ii) the amount of income allocated and apportioned to that location by the
business for purposes of the business's state income tax return; or (iii) the
amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost center of the
business. Licensees reporting gross income under this provision shall have the
burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by satisfactory
records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting a
manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   GROSS PREMIUMS. Except as to fire insurance, means gross premiums written
for policies for property or a risk located within the municipality. In
addition, gross premiums shall include premiums written for policies that are
sold, solicited, negotiated, taken, transmitted, received, delivered, applied
for, produced or serviced by (1) the insurance company’s office located in the
municipality, (2) the insurance company’s employees conducting business within
the municipality, or (3) the office of the insurance company’s licensed or
appointed producer (agent) conducting business within the municipality
regardless of where the property or risk is located, provided no tax has been
paid to another municipality in which the property or risk is located based on
the same premium. As to fire insurance, GROSS PREMIUMS means gross premiums (1)
collected in the municipality and/or (2) realized from risks located within the
limits of the municipality.
   LICENSEE means the business, the person applying for the license on behalf
of the business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL means the business license administrator or other person
designated to administer this chapter. The work shall be carried out and
supervised through the direct control of the Code Enforcement Department.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary license official, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate license officials to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under S.C. Code Title
58, Chapter 9, Article 20, and S.C. Code Title 38, Chapters 7 and 45.
   MUNICIPALITY means the City of Dillon, South Carolina.
   NAICS means the North American Industry Classification System for the United
States, published under the auspices of the Federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON means any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability
partnership, limited liability company, cooperative non-profit membership,
corporation, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, syndicate, holding company, or other group or combination acting as a
unit, in the singular or plural, and the agent or employee having charge or
control of a business in the absence of the principal.
   PERSONAL GARDEN means any area of land within Dillon County, South Carolina
not to exceed one (1) acre in size where an individual engages in the growing
of produce for personal consumption. Individual immediate family members may
pool acreage for the purpose of enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 12-19, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-3 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this chapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege
tax. Except as set forth below for business licenses issued to contractors with
respect to specific construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued
for the twelve-month period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for
a construction contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to
expire at the completion of the construction project; provided, any such
business license may require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during
the continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance,
including but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract.
If any revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount
for which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to
pay a license fee at the then prevailing rate on the excess amount. The
provisions of this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from
year to year as amended by the Council.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-4 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX, REFUND.
   (A)   The required business license tax shall be paid for each business
subject hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
due date of the 30th day of April in each year, except for those businesses in
Rate Class 8 for which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall
be subject to penalties as set forth in §
7-1-12 hereof, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1
without penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee's gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee's twelve (12)-month fiscal year preceding the due date, or on a
twelve (12)-month projected income based on the monthly average for a business
in operation for less than one (1) year. The business license tax for a new
business must be computed on the estimated probable gross income for the
balance of the license year. A business license related to construction
contract projects may be issued on a per project basis, at the option of the
taxpayer. No refund shall be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before the June 1 immediately following the April
30 on which the payment was due and must be supported by adequate documentation
supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or deny the
refund request, and if approved shall issue the refund to the business, within
thirty (30) days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-5 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent, or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within thirty (30) days
of the annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the
name of the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol,
beer, or wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of
the business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office, and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this chapter by the license official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property, and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation, and
payment of business license taxes through the business license tax portal
hosted and managed by the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office,
subject to the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal
availability or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from
existing business license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-6  DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the chapter by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The license official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this chapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if: (1) any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization as
defined in this chapter; or (2) any net proceeds of operation, after necessary
expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose
as defined in this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond
fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee, or
person with ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a
necessary expense of operation.
   (F)   Individual gardeners engaged in the selling of produce grown in and
harvested from his or her personal garden is hereby exempt from the
requirements of this chapter. However, selling such produce on public or
private property located within one thousand (1,000) feet of a retail produce
vendor shall waive such exemption.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-7 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-8 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the license official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his person or in a vehicle used in the business
readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the license official within
ten (10) days after removal of the business to a new location and the license
will be valid at the new address upon written notification by the license
official and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the
approval of the license official for a change of address shall invalidate the
license and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a
license. A business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of
controlling interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and
the establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on
old business income.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-9 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The license official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect business license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations
and audits to ensure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the Municipal Attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-10 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
license official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections and to examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful
for any such person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
business license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided
herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of business license tax
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The license official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with the chapter. Financial
information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed public
records, and the license official shall not release the amount of business
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-11 ASSESSMENTS, PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST, APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest, and appeals of assessment shall
be allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing an assessment, the license official
may examine such records of the business or any other available records as may
be appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical surveys as the
license official may deem appropriate to assess a business license tax and
penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The license official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for adjustment
of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided that for
particular types of business licenses, including without limitation for
business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under
S.C. Code. Title 58, Chapter 9, Article 20 and S.C. Code Title 38, Chapters 7
and 45, the municipality, by separate ordinance, may establish a different
procedure and may delegate one or more rights, duties, and functions hereunder
to the Municipal Association of South Carolina.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-12 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES, PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct business license
tax, the license official shall impose and collect a late penalty of five (5%)
percent of the unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date
until paid. Penalties shall not be waived. If any business license tax remains
unpaid for sixty (60) days after its due date, the license official shall
report it to the Municipal Attorney for appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the license official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-13 NOTICES.
   The license official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three (3) times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-14 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   The license official may deny a license to an applicant when the license
official determines:
   (A)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation, false
or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact;
   (B)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or constitutes
a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
   (C)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control of
the business has been convicted within the previous ten (10) years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
   (D)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control of
the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
   (E)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control of
the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
   (F)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
   (G)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the licensee
in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied, suspended, or
revoked in the previous license year. A decision of the license official shall
be subject to appeal as herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons
stated.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   When the license official determines:
   (A)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued contrary
to law;
   (B)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud, misrepresentation,
a false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact
in the license application;
   (D)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten (10) years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
   (E)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to
the business; or
   (F)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax
or fee, the license official may give written notice to the licensee or the
person in control of the business within the municipality by personal service
or mail that the license is suspended pending a single hearing before Council
or its designee for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should be
upheld and the license should be revoked.
   The written notice of suspension and proposed revocation shall state the
time and place at which the hearing is to be held, and shall contain a brief
statement of the reasons for the suspension and proposed revocation and a copy
of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-16 APPEALS TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
7-1-11 hereof, which are governed by S.C. Code § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved
by a determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the license official may appeal the decision to the Council by
written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the license official
within ten (10) days after service by mail or personal service of the notice of
determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation.
   (B)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial or other determination of
the license official and a hearing on a suspension and proposed revocation
shall be held by the Council within ten (10) business days after receipt of a
request for appeal or service of a notice of suspension and proposed
revocation. The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular or
special meeting of the Council, at a hearing to be scheduled by the designee.
The hearing may be continued to another date by agreement of all parties. At
the hearing, all parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
present testimony and evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings
shall be recorded and transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting.
The rules of evidence and procedure prescribed by Council shall govern the
hearing. Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members
present, shall render a written decision based on findings of fact and
conclusions on application of the standards herein. The written decision shall
be served, by personal service or by mail, upon all parties or their
representatives and shall constitute the final decision of the municipality.
   (C)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council does not effectuate a stay of
that decision. The decision of the Council shall be binding and enforceable
unless overturned by an applicable appellate court after a due and timely
appeal.
   (D)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under S.C. Code Title 58, Chapter 9, Article 20 and S.C. Code Title 38,
Chapters 7 and 45, the municipality may establish a different procedure by
ordinance.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-17 CONSENT, FRANCHISE, OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain,
or operate in, on, above, or under any street or public place under control of
the municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure, or facility for
utilities, communications, cablevision, or other purposes without a consent
agreement or franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that
prescribes the term, fees, and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-18 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-19 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not
more than thirty (30) days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation
shall be considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not
relieve the offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs
provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-20 SEVERABILITY.
   A determination that any portion of this chapter is invalid or unenforceable
shall not affect the remaining portions. To the extent of any conflict between
the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the South Carolina
Business License Tax Standardization Act, as codified at S.C. Code §§ 6-1-400
et seq., the Standardization Act shall control.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-21 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
chapter shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule, designated as Appendix A to Ord. 21-15, which may be amended from
time to time by the Council.
   (B)   The current business license class schedule is attached to Ord. 21-15
as Appendix B. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd year, the
municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized business
license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of South
Carolina and adopted by the Director of the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal
Affairs Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised business license
class schedule shall then be appended to Ord. 21-15 as a replacement Appendix
B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, sub sector, group, or industry. The business license class
schedule (Appendix B) is a tool for classification and not a limitation on
businesses subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most
recent version of the business license class schedule adopted by the Council
that most specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the
business. The license official shall have the authority to make the
determination of the classification most specifically applicable to a subject
business.
   (D)   A copy of the class schedule and rate schedule shall be filed in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 21-15, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 7-1-22 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, license taxes
for telecommunications as described in Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)
481 and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) 5133, including
voice and data communications, radiotelephone services, cellular telephone
services, paging and beeper services, leasing lines, fiber optic cables,
microwave or satellite facilities, selling access and reselling use of
facilities or methods to others shall pay an annual business license tax of
three percent (3%) of gross receipts from all communication activities
conducted in the municipality and for communication services billed to
customers located in the municipality on which a business license tax has not
been paid to another municipality. The tax shall be payable on or before
December 31 in each calendar year without penalty. Declining rates shall not
apply. The penalty for delinquent payments shall be five percent (5%) of the
tax due each month, or portion thereof, after the due date until paid.
   (B)   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-7-300, the Agreement with the Municipal
Association of South Carolina for collection of current and delinquent license
taxes from telecommunications in the form attached hereto is approved, and the
Mayor is authorized to execute it.
(Ord. 98-10, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 7-1-23 GROSS INCOME FROM INTERSTATE COMMERCE TAXED.
   Exemptions in the business license ordinance for income from business in
interstate commerce are hereby repealed. Gross income from interstate commerce
shall be included in the gross income for every business subject to a business
license tax.
(Ord. 12-19, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 7-1-24 TELECOMMUNICATION TAX AND FEES.
   (A)   Section 1.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Business License
Ordinance, the business license tax for “retail telecommunications services”,
as defined in S.C. Code § 58-9-2200, shall be at the maximum rate authorized by
S.C. Code § 58-9-2220, as it now provides or as provided by its amendment. The
business license tax year shall begin on January 1 of each year. The rate for
the 2005 business license tax year shall be the maximum rate allowed by state
law as in effect on February 1, 2005. Declining rates shall not apply.
      (2)   In conformity with S.C. Code § 58-9-2220, the business license tax
for “retail telecommunications services” shall apply to the gross income
derived from the sale of retail telecommunications services for the preceding
calendar or fiscal year which either originate or terminate in the municipality
and which are charged to a service address within the municipality regardless
of where these amounts are billed or paid and on which a business license tax
has not been paid to another municipality. The measurement of the amounts
derived from the retail sale of mobile telecommunications services shall
include only revenues from the fixed monthly recurring charge of customers
whose service address is within the boundaries of the municipality. For a
business in operation for less than one (1) year, the amount of business
license tax shall be computed on a twelve (12) month projected income.
   (B)   Section 2.
      (1)   For the year 2005, the business license tax for “retail
telecommunications services” shall be due on February 1, 2005, and payable by
February 28, 2005, without penalty. For years after 2005, the business license
tax for “retail telecommunications services” shall be due on January 1 of each
year and payable by January 31 of that year, without penalty.
      (2)   The delinquent penalty shall be five percent (5%) of the tax due
for each month, or portion thereof, after the due date until paid.
   (C)   Section 3. Exemptions in the business license ordinance for income
from business in interstate commerce are hereby repealed. Properly apportioned
gross income from interstate commerce shall be included in the gross income for
every business subject to a business license tax.
   (D)   Section 4.
      (1)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be interpreted to interfere with
continuing obligations of any franchise agreement or contractual agreement in
the event that the franchise or contractual agreement should expire after
December 31, 2003.
      (2)   All fees collected under such a franchise or contractual agreement
expiring after December 31, 2003, shall be in lieu of fees or taxes which might
otherwise be authorized by this ordinance.
   (E)   Section 5. As authorized by S.C. Code § 5-7-300, the Agreement with
the Municipal Association of South Carolina for collection of current and
delinquent taxes from telecommunications companies pursuant to S.C. Code § 58-
9-2200 shall continue in effect. Notwithstanding the provisions of the
Agreement, for the year of 2005, the Municipal Association of South Carolina is
authorized to collect current and delinquent license taxes, in conformity with
the due date and delinquent date for 2005 as set out in this ordinance and is
further authorized, for the year 2005, to disburse business license taxes
collected, less the service charge agreed to, to this municipality on or before
April 1, 2005, and thereafter as remaining collections permit.
   (F)   Section 6. All previous ordinances, or portions of ordinances, in
conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
(Am. Ord. 99-17, passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. 99-23, passed 11-8-1999; Am. Ord.
04-11, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 7-1-25 RATE FOR BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   The rate for business licenses for retail telecommunications service
for 1999 shall be 0.03 percent (0.03%) of 1998 gross income, due on October 1,
1999, and payable by January 31, 2000, without penalty.
   (B)   The telecommunications business license tax shall be due on January 1
in each year, beginning in the year 2000. Declining rates shall not apply.
Taxes are payable without penalty by January 31 following the due date. After
January 31, the delinquent penalty shall be five percent (5%) of the tax due
each month, or portion thereof, after the due date until paid.
§ 7-1-26 EXEMPTIONS REPEALED.
   (A)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be interpreted to interfere with
continuing obligations of any franchise agreement or contractual agreement in
the event that the franchise or contractual agreement should expire after
December 31, 2003.
   (B)   Fees imposed by any franchise agreement or contractual agreement with
a telecommunications provider which expires prior to December 31, 2003, shall
continue in effect until December 31, 2003.
   (C)   All fees collected under such franchise agreement or contractual
agreement shall be in lieu of fees or taxes which might otherwise be authorized
by this ordinance.
   (D)   A business license tax ordinance, adopted prior to December 31, 1997,
which levied a business license tax paid by a telecommunications company higher
than that levied under this ordinance, shall remain in effect through December
31, 2003.
§ 7-1-27 AGREEMENT WITH MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATION.
   As authorized by S.C. Code § 5-7-300, the Agreement with the Municipal
Association of South Carolina for collection of current and delinquent license
taxes from telecommunications companies pursuant to S.C. Code § 58-9-2200 in
the form attached hereto is approved, and the Mayor is authorized to execute
it.
§ 7-1-28 INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, license taxes
for insurance companies shall be payable on or before May 31 in each year
without penalty. The penalty for delinquent payments shall be five percent (5%)
of the tax due per month, or portion thereof, after the due date until paid.
   (B)   Pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 38-45-10 and 38-45-60, the Municipal
Association of South Carolina is designated the municipal agent for purposes of
administration of the municipal broker’s premium tax. The agreement with the
Association for administration and collection of current and delinquent license
taxes from insurance companies as authorized by S.C. Code § 5-7-300 and
administration of the municipal brokers premium tax in the form attached to
Ord. 12-19, passed 12-10-2012, is approved, and the Mayor is authorized to
execute it.
(Ord. 12-19, passed 12-10-2012)
CHAPTER 2: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Cross Reference:
   Public intoxication, possession, Sec.
9-2-9 
Section
7-2-1   Adoption of State Law
§ 7-2-1 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   All the provisions and requirements of the general law of South Carolina in
regard to alcohol and alcoholic beverages, insofar as these provisions have
application within the city, are hereby accepted and adopted and made a part of
this chapter and Code as fully as though set out herein. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the sections so
adopted and any person so failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with such
sections so adopted shall be punished as provided in §
1-3-48 of this Code.
(1977 Code, § 7-2001)
Editorial Note:  The cited state law may be incorporated by reference in an
ordinance by municipalities, Op. Atty. Gen., No 2460, p.125 (1967-68)
CHAPTER 3: SOLICITORS
Section
7-3-1   Permit Required; Exceptions
7-3-2   Same; Application
7-3-3   Same; Investigation of Applicant
7-3-4   Same; Duration; Disapproval
7-3-5   Same; Revocation
7-3-6   Right of Chief of Police to Require Reports
§ 7-3-1 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, organization, society, association or
corporation, or for any agent, member or representative thereof, directly or
indirectly, to solicit property or financial assistance of any kind, to sell or
offer to sell any article, tag, service emblem, advertisement, subscription or
anything of value, on the plea of the representative that the sale or
solicitation, or the proceeds thereof is for a charitable, educational,
patriotic or philanthropic purpose, on the streets, in any office or business
building, by house to house canvass or in any other way or private place, by
telephone, personal solicitation, by mail, or in any other way, in the city,
unless the person, organization, society, association or corporation shall have
first been duly permitted as herein provided in this chapter; provided,
however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any society,
association, or corporation that is organized exclusively for religious,
educational, philanthropic, benevolent, fraternal, charitable or reformatory
purposes, not operated for pecuniary profit where no part of the net earnings
thereof inures to the benefit of any person, private shareholder or individual
and where the solicitation of the organization shall be conducted among the
members thereof by other members or officers thereof, voluntarily and without
remuneration for the solicitation or where the solicitation may be in the form
of collections or contributions at the regular exercises or services of any
church, religious society, lodge, benevolent order or fraternity or similar
organization.
State Law Reference:
   Control of charitable solicitation, S.C. Code §§ 33-55-10 et seq.
§ 7-3-2 SAME; APPLICATION.
   (A)   A written application for a permit to solicit for any cause as
provided in §
7-3-1, shall be sworn to and filed with the Chief of Police, and the
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of organization or individual applying for a
permit to solicit;
      (2)   Names and addresses of principal officers and management if
applicant is other than an individual;
      (3)   The purpose for which any receipts derived from the solicitation
are to be used;
      (4)   The name and address of the person by whom the receipts of the
solicitation shall be disbursed;
      (5)   The name and address of the person who will be in direct charge of
conducting the solicitation;
      (6)   An outline of the methods to be used in conducting the
solicitation;
      (7)   The time, giving the proposed beginning and ending dates when the
solicitation will be made;
      (8)   The amount of any wages, fee, commissions, expenses or emoluments
to be expended or paid to anyone in connection with the solicitation and how
expended or to whom paid;
      (9)   A financial statement for the last preceding year of any funds
collected for the purpose given above, the statement to show the amount
collected, cost of collection and the final distribution of the funds raised;
      (10)   A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable,
educational or philanthropic work being done in the city by the applicant;
      (11)   Other information as may be required to fully determine the kind,
character and worthiness of the proposed solicitation;
   (B)   The permit application shall be accompanied by such fee as fixed from
time to time for itinerant businesses.
Cross Reference:
   Itinerant business licenses, Sec.
7-1-18
§ 7-3-3 SAME; INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Upon receipt of the application, the Chief of Police shall make all
necessary investigation to determine if in fact the solicitation is for the
cause stated, and that the solicitation is not conducted primarily for the
private profit of the promoters.
§ 7-3-4 SAME; DURATION; DISAPPROVAL.
   Upon approval of the application, the permit required by this chapter shall
be issued for a period not to exceed three (3) calendar months. If the
application is disapproved the applicant shall be granted the right of appeal
to the Council.
(1977 Code, § 3004)
§ 7-3-5 SAME; REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police shall have the right to revoke a permit issued under the
provisions of this chapter for violations of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 3005)
§ 7-3-6 RIGHT OF CHIEF OF POLICE TO REQUIRE REPORTS.
   The Chief of Police shall have the right to require reports at his
discretion to determine that the solicitation is carried on in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 3-6)
CHAPTER 4: PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
Article A: Poolrooms and Bowling Alleys
7-4-1   Playing When Place is Closed
7-4-2   Minors
7-4-3   Playing or Loitering by Intoxicated Persons
7-4-4   Betting Pools
7-4-5   Loud or Profane Language
7-4-6   Operation on Ground Floor; Plate Glass Windows
7-4-7   Screens, Curtains and Partitions
7-4-8   Connection with Gambling or Immoral Establishment
7-4-9   Operating Time
7-4-10 through 7-4-20 Reserved
Article B: Miscellaneous Regulations
7-4-21   Traveling Shows
ARTICLE A: POOLROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 7-4-1 PLAYING WHEN PLACE IS CLOSED.
   No person operating a pocket billiard room, poolroom or bowling alley in the
city shall allow play on any table or at any alley when the place is closed.
(1977 Code, § 7-4001)
§ 7-4-2 MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or operator of a pocket
billiard room or poolroom in the city to allow any person under eighteen (18)
years of age to loiter in the pocket billiard room or poolroom or to play
pocket billiard or pool, unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   The burden of proof shall rest with the operator or owner of the
pocket billiard room or poolroom, that the person is so desiring to participate
shall come within the required age limits of this section.
State Law Reference:
   Minors on poolroom premises, S.C. Code § 20-7-8910
§ 7-4-3 PLAYING OR LOITERING BY INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No person operating a pocket billiard room, poolroom, or bowling alley in
the city shall allow any person who is intoxicated to play or loiter in or on
the premises.
(1977 Code, § 7-4003)
§ 7-4-4 BETTING POOLS.
   No racing, football parley or other betting pool shall be allowed, promoted
or sold in a pocket billiard room, poolroom or bowling alley.
(1977 Code, § 7-4004)
"Cross Reference:
   Gambling prohibited generally, Sec.
9-4-1,
9-4-2
State Law Reference:
   Gambling and lotteries, S.C. Code §§ 16-19-10 et seq.
§ 7-4-5 LOUD OR PROFANE LANGUAGE.
   No loud, profane, obscene or indecent language shall be permitted in any
pocket billiard room, poolroom or bowling alley.
(1977 Code, § 7-4005)
§ 7-4-6 OPERATION ON GROUND FLOOR; PLATE GLASS WINDOWS.
   No pocket billiard room, poolroom or bowling alley shall be operated in the
city by any person except upon the ground floor of a building. Plate glass
windows shall be in the part of the building facing the street so that the
public shall at all times be able to see within the room.
(1977 Code, § 7-4006)
§ 7-4-7 SCREENS, CURTAINS AND PARTITIONS.
   No person operating a pocket billiard room, poolroom or bowling alley in the
city shall allow or permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other
obstructions to be placed between the entrance of the room where billiards or
pool are played and the back of the rear wall of the billiard room. A clear
view of the entire interior from the entrance to the rear of the room must be
maintained at all times. No partitions forming rooms, stalls, or other
enclosures where the public congregates shall be permitted. This section shall
not be construed to prohibit the maintenance of closets for storing purposes
exclusively or toilets.
(1977 Code, § 7-4007)
§ 7-4-8 CONNECTION WITH GAMBLING OR IMMORAL ESTABLISHMENT.
   No person operating a billiard room, poolroom or bowling alley in the city
shall maintain or permit to be maintained, any open or secret connections
through doors, windows or trap doors, panels, stairways or other devices with
any place where gambling is conducted or where persons congregate for immoral
purposes.
(1977 Code, § 7-4008)
§ 7-4-9 OPERATING TIME.
   (A)   All bowling alleys and skating rinks are required to close their doors
for business at 12 midnight each night.
   (B)   All poolrooms shall be closed at 11:00 p.m. each night and remain
closed until 6:00 a.m. the following morning, and shall not operate on Sundays.
ARTICLE B: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 7-4-21 TRAVELING SHOWS.
   All sponsors of shows, rides, concessions or amusements of any nature shall
make application to and receive permission to locate within the city limits at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of the location or operation.
(1977 Code, § 4010)
State Law Reference:
   Circuses, carnivals and other traveling shows, S.C. Code §§ 52-1-20 et seq.
CHAPTER 5: TAXICABS
Section
7-5-1   Insurance Policy or Bond
7-5-2   Filing of Schedule of Rates
7-5-3   Permit Required
7-5-4   Application
7-5-5   Revocation
§ 7-5-1 INSURANCE POLICY OR BOND.
   No taxicab operator's business license shall be issued unless the applicant
therefor shall have filed with the City Manager a general liability insurance
policy or a bond in such amounts as required by state law for each taxicab to
be operated under the license.
State Law Reference:
   Bodily injury and property damage limits, S.C. Code § 58-23-1220
§ 7-5-2 FILING OF SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   Each taxicab operator shall, upon request of the Council, file with the City
Manager a schedule of rates to be charged passengers.
§ 7-5-3 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Each driver of a taxicab shall be required to have a taxicab driver's permit
issued by the City Manager before driving any taxicab on the streets of the
city. The taxicab driver's permit shall be valid for one (1) calendar year,
beginning July 1, and shall expire on the same date as the business license.
The taxicab permit shall be purchased at the cost of twenty-five dollars ($25).
(Ord. 97-07, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 7-5-4 APPLICATION.
   Before a taxicab driver's permit is issued by the City Manager, an
application therefor must be filed with the City Manager, showing good
character on the part of the applicant and the application must be approved by
the City Manager.
§ 7-5-5 REVOCATION.
   A taxicab driver's permit issued under this chapter shall be automatically
revoked upon conviction of the holder thereof of the violation of any state,
federal, or municipal penal law or ordinance relating to traffic or parking.
CHAPTER 6: FRANCHISES
Editorial Note: The Council, by ordinance, has granted a CATV franchise to the
Border Broadcasting Company, Inc.
Section
7-6-1   Utilities to Secure Franchise
7-6-2   Franchise Fees
7-6-3   Notification to Utilities; Negotiation of Franchise Agreements
§ 7-6-1 UTILITIES TO SECURE FRANCHISE.
   All utility companies shall secure a franchise agreement from the city for
the use of public rights-of-way within the city for the purpose of erecting,
constructing, maintaining and operating facilities thereon and thereunder,
according to existing city codes and ordinances, and any other special
franchise agreements which may be separately negotiated.
(Ord. CM-30, passed 2-1985)
§ 7-6-2 FRANCHISE FEES.
   Except for companies with provisions in contracts in existence on the
effective date of this section, all utility companies, in return for the right
to use rights-of-way, shall pay a franchise fee of three percent (3%) of gross
subscriber revenues to the city. Upon the expiration of the current contracts,
however, the franchise business shall immediately fall under the provisions of
this article.
(Ord. CM-30, passed 2-1985)
§ 7-6-3 NOTIFICATION TO UTILITIES; NEGOTIATION OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS.
   The City Manager and Finance Director are hereby authorized and directed to
notify the respective utility companies of the provisions of this article and
to negotiate any and all other additional provisions of a franchise agreement
which will be necessary and proper for the implementation of this article.
(Ord. CM-30, passed 2-1985)
CHAPTER 7: YARD SALES
Section
7-7-1   Definition
7-7-2   Time Restrictions
7-7-3   Traffic and Parking
7-7-4   Signs; Advertising
7-7-5   Display of Merchandise
7-7-6   Commercial Promotion of Sale Activity
7-7-7   Inspection for Violation
7-7-8   Penalty
§ 7-7-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a "yard sale" is defined as the sale or
trading of clothing, furniture, household items, food dishes, antiques or
similar goods or merchandise, other than in the normal course of business, or
the sale or trading of such goods, as outlined above, by a person not regularly
engaged in such business. Such goods or merchandise do not need to be attended
for a sale to be deemed to be in existence. The term "yard sale" shall include
garage sales, carport sales and similar types of sales or events.
§ 7-7-2 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   Yard sales shall be allowed for not more than a total of three (3)
consecutive days and shall be limited to four (4) sales per location per year.
Sales shall be limited to the hours between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.. A yard
sale permit is required prior to each sale.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 7-7-3 TRAFFIC AND PARKING.
   The individual in charge of the premises upon which the sale is conducted
shall control the parking of vehicles of patrons so as to avoid congestion and
hazardous conditions. Failure to do so shall be sufficient cause for the sale
to be immediately terminated by officials of the city.
§ 7-7-4 SIGNS; ADVERTISING.
   Signs advertising or calling attention to or giving directions to a yard
sale shall be restricted to five (5) signs, non-illuminated, not to exceed two
(2) square feet. It shall be the responsibility of the holder of the sale to
remove the signs at the conclusion of the yard sale.
§ 7-7-5 DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   All displays of yard sale merchandise shall be limited to that portion of
the front yard area which is at least five (5) feet back from the property line
on all sides, and ten feet back from any curb or road edge.
§ 7-7-6 COMMERCIAL PROMOTION OF SALE ACTIVITY.
   No individual, firm, corporation, or partnership shall engage in the
business of promoting or conducting yard sales for others for a fee or other
consideration. No merchandise shall be purchased in anticipation of resale at a
yard sale. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent a person from
advertising in a newspaper concerning his yard sale.
§ 7-7-7 INSPECTION FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in
§
1-3-48 of this Code; each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
§ 7-7-8 PENALTY.
   Please refer to §
1-3-48.
CHAPTER 8: LOCAL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
Section
7-8-1   Tax Imposed
7-8-2   Payment
7-8-3   Failure to Remit
7-8-4   Local Accommodations Tax Account
7-8-5   Separability
7-8-6   Date passed
§ 7-8-1 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed a Local Accommodations Tax of three percent (3%) on
the gross proceeds derived from rental or charges for accommodations furnished
to transients for consideration, as described in S.C. Code § 12-36-920(A), by a
person within the City of Dillon (hereinafter "vendor").
(Ord. 99-13, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 7-8-2 PAYMENT.
   Payment of the accommodations tax established herein shall be remitted by
the vendor to the City of Dillon on a monthly basis, along with the return or
form established by the city for such purposes, not later than the 15th day of
the month and shall cover the tax due for the previous month. Any tax not
timely remitted shall be subject to a penalty of five percent (5%) of the sum
owed for each month or portion thereof until paid.
(Ord. 99-13, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 7-8-3 FAILURE TO REMIT.
   The failure of any vendor subject to this ordinance to remit to the city the
tax imposed by the provisions of this ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred ($500) or imprisonment or
both.
(Ord. 99-13, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 7-8-4 LOCAL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX ACCOUNT.
   There is hereby established a special account to be known as the Local
Accommodations Tax Account into which the taxes remitted shall be deposited by
the city and used solely for the purposes provided by law, which include the
following:
   (A)   Tourism related buildings;
   (B)   Cultural, recreational or historic facilities;
   (C)   Beach access and renourishment;
   (D)   Highways, roads, streets and bridges accessing tourist areas ;
   (E)   Advertisements and promotions related to tourism-related demand.
(Ord. 99-13, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 7-8-5 SEPARABILITY.
   This ordinance is subject to the constitution and laws of the State of South
Carolina. If any section, phrase, sentence or portion of this ordinance is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof.
(Ord. 99-13, passed 9-13-1999)
§ 7-8-6 DATE PASSED.
   This ordinance shall become effective October 1, 1999.
(Ord. 99-13, passed 9-13-1999)
CHAPTER 9: LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX
Section
7-9-1   Tax Imposed
7-9-2   Collection from Customer
7-9-3   Remittance by Vendor
7-9-4   Failure to Remit
7-9-5   Local Hospitality Tax Account
7-9-6   Separability
7-9-7   Date passed
§ 7-9-1 TAX IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed a Local Hospitality Tax of two percent (2%) on the
gross proceeds of the sale of prepared meals and beverages in establishments
within the City of Dillon, SC (hereinafter "vendor"). Payment of the
hospitality tax established hereby shall be the liability of the customer.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 7-9-2 COLLECTION FROM CUSTOMER.
   The tax imposed by this ordinance shall be collected from the customer when
payment for meals or beverages is tendered and shall be held in trust for the
benefit of the city until remitted as provided in §
7-9-3 below.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 7-9-3 REMITTANCE BY VENDOR.
   Payment of the hospitality tax established herein shall be remitted by the
vendor to the City of Dillon, SC on a monthly basis, along with such return or
form as may be established by the city for such purposes, not later than the
twentieth day of the month and shall cover the tax due for the previous month.
Any tax not timely remitted shall be subject to a penalty of five percent (5%)
of the sum owed for each month or portion thereof until paid. The failure to
collect from the customer the tax imposed by this ordinance shall not relieve
the vendor from making the required remittance.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 7-9-4 FAILURE TO REMIT.
   The failure of any vendor subject to this ordinance to remit to the city the
tax imposed by the provisions of this ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500) or
imprisonment for up to thirty (30) days, or both.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 7-9-5 LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX ACCOUNT.
   There is hereby established a special account to be known as the Local
Hospitality Tax Account into which the taxes remitted shall be deposited by the
city and used solely for the purposes provided by law.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 7-9-6 SEPARABILITY.
   This ordinance is subject to the constitution and the laws of the State of
South Carolina. If any section, phrase, sentence or portion of this ordinance
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 7-9-7 DATE PASSED.
   This ordinance shall become effective on January 1, 2004.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 9-8-2003)
TITLE 8: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Chapter
   
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Article A: Traffic Regulations
8-1-1   Adoption of State Law
8-1-2   Only Licensed Operators may Drive Vehicles
8-1-3   Speed Limit
8-1-4   Powers and Duties of City Manager
8-1-5   Blocking Traffic
8-1-6   Cruising Prohibited in Residential Areas; Penalties
8-1-7   Careless Operation of a Vehicle Prohibited; Penalties Established
8-1-8   Truck Routes
8-1-9 through 8-1-20 Reserved
Article B: Parking Regulations
8-1-21   Designation of "Handicapped Only" Parking Places, Penalties for
Violation
8-1-22   Designation of Two (2) Hour Parking Zones; Penalties for Violations
ARTICLE A: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Cross Reference:
   Offensive conditions and nuisances involving motor vehicles, Sec.
6-3-21 et seq.
State Law Reference:
   Duty of drivers of emergency vehicles to exercise due care, S.C. Code § 56-
5-760
   Duty of drivers to obey traffic laws, S.C. Code § 56-5-730
§ 8-1-1 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   There is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof as if set out in
full those provisions of state law known as the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic
on Highways as contained in S.C. Code, Title 56, Chapter 5.
(1977 Code, § 8-1001)
State Law Reference:
   Municipal court authority to try violations of state traffic laws, see S.C.
Code § 56-5-6150
Editorial Note: The cited state law may be incorporated by reference in an
ordinance by municipalities. Op. Atty. Gen., No. 2460, p. 125 (1967-68).
Municipalities may further regulate traffic provided the additional regulations
do not conflict with state law, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-30, 56-5-710.
§ 8-1-2 ONLY LICENSED OPERATORS MAY DRIVE VEHICLES.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated upon the streets of the city other than
by a properly licensed driver.
(1977 Code, § 8-1002)
State Law Reference:
   State license required, S.C. Code § 56-1-20
§ 8-1-3 SPEED LIMIT.
   The speed limits within the city shall be as posted.
(1977 Code, § 8-1004)
§ 8-1-4 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this article, the City Manager, or his
designate, upon approval of the Council, shall have the power and is hereby
authorized to regulate the operation and parking of vehicles within the
corporate limits of the city by the erection or placing of proper signs or
markers indicating prohibited or limited parking, restricted speed areas, one-
way streets, play streets, through or arterial streets, stop streets, parking
meter spaces in parking meter zones, "U" turns, school zones, hospital zones,
loading or unloading zones, quiet zones, and other signs, markers and official
traffic control devices indicating the place or manner of operating or parking
vehicles within the city.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the City Manager or his
designate, upon approval of the Council, shall have power and is hereby
authorized to regulate the movement of pedestrians upon the streets and
sidewalks of the city by the erection or placing of proper signs, markers, or
devices indicating the flow of pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the City Manager or his
designate, upon approval of the Council, shall have power and is hereby
authorized to designate bus stops and taxicab stands and to erect signs
prohibiting the parking of vehicles other than busses and taxicabs at their
respective stops and stands.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the City Manager, or his
designate, upon approval of the Council, shall have power and is hereby
authorized to designate truck routes and to regulate the parking of vehicles of
various sizes and weights.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the City Manager, or his
designate, upon approval of the Council, shall have power and is authorized to
mark off traffic lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and directing
the flow of traffic.
   (F)   The City Manager, or his designate, shall have power and is authorized
to secure all necessary signs, markers or official traffic control devices to
be erected or placed on any street or part of a street when the action is
deemed necessary.
   (G)   The existence of signs, markers or official traffic control devices at
any place within the city shall be prima facie evidence that the signs,
markers, or official traffic control devices were erected or placed by and at
the direction of the city and in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   (H)   All of the orders issued by the City Manager pursuant to this section
shall be in writing and filed with the Clerk and shall be approved by the
Council.
   (I)   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated
on any sign or marker, or with any official traffic control device, erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this section when so placed or
erected, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 8-1-5 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall by any show or other performance or act wilfully block the
traffic on any of the streets of the city; provided, that this section shall
not apply to authorized work on the streets, if a convenient detour is
provided.
(1977 Code, § 8-1006)
§ 8-1-6 CRUISING PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Cruising as defined herein is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.    A territory contiguous to and including a
street or highway within the city and which has been designated as R-12, R-7,
R-5, or MH Districts under the zoning laws of the city.
      (2)   POLICE CHECK POINT. Any place designated by a city police officer
for the purpose of regulating and controlling traffic, when a city police
officer is present at said place.
      (3)   STREET; HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of every
way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular traffic.
      (4)   CRUISING. Passing a police check point which has been established
on a street or highway located in a residential area in a motor vehicle more
than three (3) times within a two (2) hour period, after having been given
written notice after the third passing in the same direction, that passing the
police check point a fourth time in the same direction shall constitute a
violation of this section.
   (C)   The penalty for a first conviction of this section shall be a fine not
exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25). The penalty for a second or subsequent
conviction within a one (1) year period shall be a fine not exceeding fifty
dollars ($50).
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the following vehicles: emergency
vehicles on patrol, taxicabs for hire, and other business vehicles being driven
for business purposes.
(Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 9-10-2007)
Cross Reference:
   Zoning of residential areas, Sec.
5-4-55 et seq.
§ 8-1-7 CARELESS OPERATION OF A VEHICLE PROHIBITED; PENALTIES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle without
care and caution and full regard for safety of persons or property. Any person
failing to do so shall be guilty of careless driving or riding. The operation
of any vehicle when the same or any of its appliances is not in proper or safe
condition shall be prima facie evidence of careless driving or riding; careless
operation is unlawful and may be a lesser included offense of reckless driving.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this section.
   (C)   The fines for this offense are hereby established as follows:
 
Offense                                                                    Fine
Ten (10) miles per hour (MPH) or less above speed limit                    $43
More than ten (10) miles per hour (MPH) above speed limit but less than    $68
fifteen (15) MPH
More than fifteen (15) MPH above the speed limit but less than twenty-five $93
(25) MPH
More than twenty-five (25) MPH above speed limit                           $237
Such charges may be adjusted from time to time in line with other code
violations and as is permitted by law.
 
   (D)   It is the expressed and stated intent of Council that in plea
bargaining situations when this offense is employed, no part of the fine will
be suspended and no partial pay arrangements extended.
(Ord. 90-11, passed 6-1990)
§ 8-1-8 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   (a)   NO TRUCK ZONE - An area comprised of all roads within the
following perimeter:
 
No Truck Zone
East Main Street between U. S. Route 301- Highway 301 and MacArthur Avenue
West Main Street between Railroad Avenue and 11th Avenue
Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. between S. C. Route 9-Radford Blvd. and West Main
Street
 
         (b)   Trucks, as defined in this ordinance, are not allowed in the No
Truck Zone unless they are delivering to or taking on freight from a business
located within the No Truck Zone or engaged in public service along such
streets within the No Truck Zone.
         (c)   Further, such limitation shall not apply to trucks/drivers going
to and from home when their residence is on a street which intersects Martin
Luther King, Jr. Blvd; provided, however, a permit granting permission has been
obtained from the City of Dillon Code Enforcement Office. The permit shall be
valid only when in possession of the applicant to whom it was issued for such
truck.
      (2)   Truck - A vehicle in excess of two (2) tons in weight, having ten
(10) wheels or more.
      (3)   Truck Route - Designated roads which trucks shall use to travel
around the No Truck Zone.
   (B)   Thru Traffic.
      All trucks which are traveling thru the Dillon area to destinations
outside of the No Truck Zone are prohibited from entering the city limits
portion of the No Truck Zone. All such trucks shall instead use the Dillon
Truck Route which is comprised of S.C. Route 57, Lockemy Highway, U.S. Route
301-Highway 301, S.C. Route 9-Radford Blvd., and East Main Street between
Deerwood Avenue and U.S. Highway 301-Highway 301 of the city limits.
   (C)   Truck Making Deliveries or Pick-Ups Inside the No Truck Zone.
      Trucks are allowed to enter the No Truck Zone to deliver or to pick-up
freight from businesses located within the zone. Such trucks must have a bill
of lading which verifies the point of delivery or pick-up.
   (D)   Intra-City Conveyance.
      All trucks conducting Intra-City Conveyance shall use the most direct
route from their point of origin within the city limits to their destination
inside the city limits.
   (E)   Penalty Provision.
      Violators of any and all provision of this ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the following fines:
 
First (1st) Offense         One Hundred Dollars   ($100)
Second (2nd) Offense        Two Hundred Dollars   ($200)
Third (3rd) Offense         Three Hundred Dollars ($300)
Fourth (4th) Offense        Four Hundred Dollars  ($400)
Fifth (5th) Offense & above Five Hundred Dollars  ($500)
 
   (F)   Separability.
      If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
ordinance is for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion thereof.
   (G)   That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
the earliest date permitted by law.
   (H)   All ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 01-27, passed 12-10-2001)
ARTICLE B: PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 8-1-21 DESIGNATION OF "HANDICAPPED ONLY" PARKING PLACES, PENALTIES FOR
VIOLATION.
   (A)   At least one (1) "Handicapped Parking Only" space shall be designated
by a proper sign for the area near any federal building within the city.
   (B)   The City Council is hereby given the authority to designate from time
to time other “Handicapped Parking Only” spaces within the city by method of a
duly made and adopted motion at a regular Council meeting. Any space so
designated for handicapped parking only must be indicated by a proper sign.
   (C)   Any vehicle parking in a properly marked "Handicapped Parking Only"
space must have displayed in plain sight an authorized sticker, license plate
or decal which states that the driver or a passenger in the vehicle is
handicapped. An authorized sticker as referred to above means one which is
obtained through a properly licensed physician or a license or sticker which is
issued by the state.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle which is found parked in a properly marked
handicapped parking only space and which vehicle does not have displayed a duly
authorized handicapped sticker, license or decal shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction shall be subject up to the maximum fines and
penalties and/or imprisonment as allowed by the South Carolina Code of Laws
that may be imposed in a municipal or magistrate’s court for each subsequent
offense. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a
separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of
liability and costs provided for herein.
(Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 3-8-2010)
Cross reference:
   Policy of non-discrimination against handicapped, Sec.
1-4-7,
1-4-8.
State Law Reference:
   Municipal duty to designate spaces for handicapped, S.C. Code § 56-3-1965
§ 8-1-22 DESIGNATION OF TWO (2) HOUR PARKING ZONES; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   There is established two (2) hour parking zone on all marked parking
spaces on the public streets in the city, except the streets around the
courthouse and the city/county complex. The City Manager shall be responsible
for posting appropriate signs of at least three (3) per block.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle which is found parked in a two (2) hour
parking space in excess of the two (2) hour time limit, and/or move their
vehicles from one (1) space to another, shall be subject to a fine of twenty-
five dollars ($ 25) for the first and second offense. Third offense is subject
to towing.
   (C)   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption.
(Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 2-14-2000)
TITLE 9: OFFENSES
Chapter
   
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
2.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
   
3.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
4.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY
   
5.   DRUG OFFENSES
   
6.   UNLAWFUL LOITERING
Cross References:
   Accumulation of refuse, Sec.
6-2-3
   Animals, Sec.
6-4-1 et seq.
   Breaking or removing street lights, Sec.
3-1-19
   Carrying on business without license, Sec.
7-1-10
   Damaging parkways, Sec.
3-1-17
   Firefighting equipment and alarms, Sec.
2-2-2 et seq.
   Fire prevention Codes, Sec.
2-2-11
   Fireworks, Sec.
2-2-31
   Interference with garbage containers, Sec.
6-2-4
   Motor vehicles, Sec.
8-1-1 et seq.
   Nuisances, Sec.
6-3-1 et seq.
   Parking, Sec.
8-1-21 et seq.
   Public amusements, Sec.
7-4-1 et seq.
   Riding or driving on sidewalks, Sec.
3-1-14
   Tampering with water meter, Sec.
4-3-25
   Trash burning, Sec.
6-2-5
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
State Law Reference:
   Cruelty to animals, S.C. Code §§ 47-1-10 et seq.
   Desecration or mutilation of flags, S.C. Code § 16-17-220
   Fortunetelling for purpose of promoting business, S.C. Code § 16-17-690
   Giving or offering bribes to officers, S.C. Code § 16-9-210
   Swearing oaths falsely, S.C. Code § 16-9-30
   Tampering with or corrupting jurors, etc., S.C. Code § 16-9-260
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 2: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
Section
9-2-1   Assault and Battery; Breach of Peace
9-2-2   Weapons; Carrying when Concealed
9-2-3   Same; Discharging in or Near Streets, etc.
9-2-4   Same; Discharging Near Buildings
9-2-5   Loud and Boisterous Talking; Indecent Language
9-2-6   Noises Generally
9-2-7   Disorderly Houses
9-2-8   Disturbing Public Gatherings
9-2-9   Drunkenness; Indecent Conduct
9-2-10   Interference with Police
9-2-11   Prisoners
9-2-12   Trains; Speed
9-2-13   Indecent Exposure
9-2-14   Curfew for Minors
 
State Law Reference:
   Disturbing schools, S.C. Code § 16-17-420
   Offenses tending to breach the peace (wearing masks, placing burning crosses
on property slander
      and libel, stink bombs), S.C. Code §§ 16-7-110 et seq.
§ 9-2-1 ASSAULT AND BATTERY; BREACH OF PEACE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any assault and battery, or
assault, or engage in any breach of peace, within the corporate limits of the
city, or to engage in any riotous or disorderly conduct unbecoming a good
citizen. Disorderly conduct is hereby further defined as follows:
   (A)   Any person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another
whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb, or health;
   (B)   Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of
violence, angry threats, and abusive conduct;
   (C)   Any person who utters while in a state of anger in the presence of
another any lewd or obscene words or epithets;
   (D)   Any person who shall act in a dangerous manner towards others.
(Ord. CM-89-30, passed 10-10-1989)
State Law Reference:
   Public disorderly conduct, S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 9-2-2 WEAPONS; CARRYING WHEN CONCEALED.
   Any person carrying any pistol, dirk, slingshot, metal knucks, razor or
other deadly weapon usually used for the infliction of personal injury
concealed about his person within the corporate limits of the city shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall forfeit to the city
the weapon so carried concealed and be fined in the sum of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100) and not less than twenty dollars ($20) or imprisoned not
more than thirty (30) nor less than ten (10) days in the discretion of the
court. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to apply to persons carrying
concealed weapons upon their own premises or to peace officers in the actual
discharge of their duties.
(1977 Code, § 9-1027)
§ 9-2-3 SAME; DISCHARGING IN OR NEAR STREETS, ETC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully discharge any gun, pistol or
other firearm or use any slingshot, slungshot or other missile on or near any
of the streets, squares or avenues of the city.
(1977 Code, § 9-1028)
§ 9-2-4 SAME; DISCHARGING NEAR BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully discharge any gun, pistol or
other firearms, or to wilfully shoot or use any air rifle or other gun
discharging or emitting metal shots or to use any slingshot or other missile,
within three hundred (300) feet of any dwelling house or building occupied as a
place of business within the corporate limits of the city.
(1977 Code, § 9-1029)
§ 9-2-5 LOUD AND BOISTEROUS TALKING; INDECENT LANGUAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in loud and boisterous
talking, so as to become a nuisance, or to use any form of profanity or
indecent language on the streets or in a gathering, audience or assembly or in
any public place whatsoever, within the corporate limits of the city.
(1977 Code, § 9-1018)
§ 9-2-6 NOISES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The creation and continuation of any loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises in the city is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause, make or contribute to creating any loud or disturbing noise of a
character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual or so as to disturb the quiet and peace of any citizen of the
city. The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
annoying, and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
      (1)   Blowing Horns. The sounding or blowing of any horn or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, motor bus, or other vehicle, except as a danger
signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in
motion only as a danger signal; the creation by means of any signal device of
any loud or harsh noise; and the sounding of the device for any unnecessary
period of time.
      (2)   Radios and Phonographs. The playing of any radio, phonograph,
piccolo or any musical instrument in a manner or with a volume as to annoy or
disturb any person, or the playing of an instrument in a manner as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person of ordinary sensibilities in
any dwelling, hotel, or other residence.
      (3)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent
or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons of
ordinary sensibilities in the vicinity.
      (4)   Use of Vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded or used or repaired in a manner as to create loud or
unnecessary noises, particularly grating, grinding, rattling, riveting or other
disturbing noises.
      (5)   Blowing Whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or
as a warning of danger.
      (6)   Exhaust Discharge. To discharge into the open air the exhaust from
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
      (7)   Devices Using. The use of any mechanical device operated by
compressed air, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and
reduced.
      (8)   Building Operations. The erection (including excavations),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building in a residential or business
district other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on weekdays,
except in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety, and then
only with a permit from the Chief of Police.
      (9)   Noises near Schools, Hospitals and Churches. The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
library, sanatorium, hospital or court, while it is in session, or adjacent to
any church during church services, which interferes with the work or worship in
the place or institution; provided, that signs must be displayed in the streets
indicating that it is a school, hospital, church, library, sanatorium or court.
      (10)   Loading and Unloading Operations. The sounding of any bell or gong
attached to any building or premises which disturb the quiet or repose of any
person of ordinary sensibilities in the vicinity thereof.
      (11)   Bells or Gongs. The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any
building or premises which disturb the quiet or repose of any person of
ordinary sensibilities in the vicinity thereof.
      (12)   Hawking, Peddling or Soliciting.  Shouting, loud talking, crying
or soliciting by peddlers, hawkers, taxicab drivers, solicitors and vendors,
which disturb the quiet and peace of the neighborhood, or any person therein.
      (13)   Noises to Attract Attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any
performance or event, show, sale or the display or advertisement of merchandise
by the creation of noise.
      (14)   Loudspeakers or Amplifiers on Vehicles. The use of any mechanical
loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks, airplanes or other vehicles for
advertising or other purposes, except by special permission of the Mayor.
      (15)   Business Noises at Night near Residences.  The operation of any
garage, filling station, auto repair business, taxicab business, plant, store,
factory or other place of business between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
in a manner as to create loud and disturbing noises, of a frequency or volume
as to annoy or disturb the quiet and comfort of any citizen and particularly
the creating of disturbing noises of a frequency and volume as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort, peace or repose of any person of ordinary
sensibilities in any dwelling, hotel, boardinghouse or other type of residence.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 9-1019)
§ 9-2-7 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a disorderly house
or any premises within the corporate limits where card playing or games of
chance are permitted, or where people are allowed to congregate and talk loudly
to the annoyance of the neighborhood.
(1977 Code, § 9-1008)
§ 9-2-8 DISTURBING PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully disturb any public gathering
or audience of any kind by any loud talking, whispering, whistling or loud
noise of any kind or by giving a false alarm, or in any other way, within the
corporate limits.
(1977 Code, § 9-1009)
§ 9-2-9 DRUNKENNESS; INDECENT CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk or intoxicated,
or in any way conducting himself in an indecent manner on the streets of the
city or in any other public place within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to publicly engage
in the drinking of alcoholic liquors, beer, ale, porter, or wine or any other
similar malt or fermented beverage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to engage in the
drinking of alcoholic liquors, beer, ale, porter, wine or any other similar
malt or fermented beverage upon any premises which an athletic contest is being
conducted.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to drink alcoholic
liquors, beer, ale, porter, wine or any other similar malt or fermented
beverages on the premises of any retail, wholesale or manufacturing alcoholic
liquor business establishment.
(Ord. CM-90-14, passed 7-9-1990)
State Law Reference:
   Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages in vehicles. S.C. Code
§ 61-4-110
§ 9-2-10 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, obstruct, use abusive
language or oppose, resist, strike or threaten a police officer or other
officer of the city, while in the discharge of his duty. It shall also be
unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey the summons or command of any
police officer or other officer when summoned to aid and assist him in the
discharge of his duties.
(1977 Code, § 9-1021)
State Law Reference:
   Impersonating law enforcement officer, S.C. Code § 16-7-20
§ 9-2-11 PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under arrest by the city officials or
for any prisoner of the city to make or effect his escape or to endeavor to
attempt to do so, or for any person to aid, abet, encourage or procure any
person under arrest or prisoner to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person
except city officials to take anything to do or in any way communicate with any
prisoner confined in the guardhouse or at work upon the public works of the
city unless leave so to do shall have first been obtained from the City Manager
or Chief of Police.
(1977 Code, § 9-1022)
§ 9-2-12 TRAINS; SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any train or locomotive of any railroad, upon any
railway, passing through the city to pass through the city at a rate of speed
exceeding sixty (60) miles per hour.
(1977 Code, § 9-1026)
§ 9-2-13 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   Any person who shall be guilty of willful and malicious indecent exposure of
his person in any public place, on property of others, or in view of any person
on any street or highway shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine or imprisonment or both in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 96-20, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 9-2-14 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purpose of enforcing and interpreting this section,
the following definitions shall control:
      (1)   A "minor" shall mean any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
      (2)   A "parent" shall mean a person who is the natural or adoptive
parent of a minor. As used herein, "parent" shall also include a court
appointed guardian or other person who is eighteen (18) years of age or older,
authorized by the parent, by a court order, or by a court appointed guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
      (3)   A "guardian" shall mean any person to whom custody of a minor has
been given by court order.
      (4)   An emergency shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
fire, natural disaster, vehicular accident, or obtaining immediate medical care
for another person.
      (5)   A public "place" means any place to which the public or a
substantial group of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to,
streets, highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment
houses, office buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to purposefully remain, walk, run,
stand, drive or ride about in or upon any public place in the city, between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the parent having legal custody of a minor
to knowingly allow or permit the minor to be in violation of the curfew imposed
in subsection(B)(1) of this ordinance.
   (C)   Defenses. It is a defense to prosecution under §
9-2-14 of this ordinance if any of the following exist.
      (1)   The minor was accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   The minor was accompanied by another adult approved by the parent
or guardian of the minor;
      (3)   The minor was on an emergency errand;
      (4)   The minor was attending or going directly to or coming directly
from a school, community, government or religious activity;
      (5)   The minor was engaged in or going directly to or coming directly
from a lawful employment activity;
      (6)   The minor was on the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides
or on the sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his/her
parent or guardian to be or on the sidewalk of a next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to this activity by the minor to any police officer.
      (7)   The minor was upon an errand directed by his/her parent or
guardian;
      (8)   The minor was in a motor vehicle involved in intrastate or
interstate transportation for which passage through the curfew area is the most
direct route;
      (9)   The minor was legitimately exercising his or his First Amendment
rights protected by the United States Constitution, including but not limited
to the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the right of assembly.
   (D)   Enforcement Procedure.
      (1)   First Offense. Any police officer, upon finding a minor in
violation of section (B) of this ordinance, shall determine the name and
address of the minor, and the name and address of the minor's parent or
guardian. A warning notice shall be forwarded to the Juvenile Division of the
Dillon Police Department, which shall send a letter to the parent or guardian
of the minor advising of the fact that the minor was found in violation of this
ordinance, and soliciting cooperation from the parent or guardian to avoid any
subsequent violations of this ordinance by the offending minor.
      (2)   Second Offense. Any police officer, upon finding that a minor is in
violation of section (B)(1), and once previously warned as required in section
(D)(1) shall again determine the minor's name and address and the name and
address of the minor's parents or guardian. A second warning notice shall be
issued to and served upon the minor, who shall be ordered to immediately go
home by the most direct means and route. A copy of the second warning notice
shall be forwarded to the Juvenile Division of the Dillon Police Department
which shall schedule a personal conference with the minor's parent or guardian
and the minor concerning the necessity of the enforcement of this ordinance and
the city's expectations of parental control of minors.
      (3)   Third Offense. Any police officer, upon finding that a minor in
violation of section (B) and that the minor has twice previously been found in
violation of section (B) and twice previously warned as required in section (D)
(1) and section (D)(2) shall again determine the minor's name and address and
the name and address of the minor's parent/guardian. A complaint shall then be
filed against the minor's parents/guardians in municipal court for violation of
section (B)(2) hereof. The City Police Department shall be responsible for
filing all necessary legal papers pursuant to this ordinance, supply the
municipal court with all necessary documentation, and provide such testimony as
be required to pursue any prosecution under this ordinance against any minor or
parent/guardian.
   (E)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any minor violating the provisions of this ordinance shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor as defined in the South Carolina Code of Laws.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor violating this ordinance shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor as defined in the South Carolina Code of Laws.
      (3)   In assessing punishment for either a parent, guardian or minor, the
municipal court is encouraged to consider utilization of the community service
program.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 2-10-1997)
CHAPTER 3: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
9-3-1   Damaging Property; Generally
9-3-2   Same; Injuring City Property
9-3-3   Same; Posting Placards and Posters
9-3-4   Same; False Advertising
9-3-5   Drawing and Uttering Fraudulent Check, Draft or Other Written Order
9-3-6   Neighborhood Park Hours
9-3-7   Newspaper, Handbill, Advertisers, Circular Delivery Controlled,
Subscriptions Excluded
9-3-8   Distribution of Newspapers, Advertisers, Circulars, Handbills, from
Right-of-Way Prohibited
 
State Law Reference:
   Breach of trust with fraudulent intent, S.C. Code § 16-13-230
   Obtaining signature or property by false pretenses, S.C. Code § 16-13-240
   Obtaining property under false tokens or letters, S.C. Code § 16-13-260
   Petit larceny, S.C. Code § 16-13-30
   Receiving stolen goods, S.C. Code § 16-13-180
   Securing property by fraudulent impersonation of officer, S.C. Code § 16-13-
290
   Selling tickets to athletic or sporting events for more than prescribed
amount, S.C. Code § 16-17-710
   Shoplifting, S.C. Code § 16-13-110
   Swindling, S.C. Code § 16-13-320
   Trespass, S.C. Code §§ 16-11-600 et seq.
§ 9-3-1 DAMAGING PROPERTY; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play around or in any way romp over,
or damage or deface, or spoil in any way any property of any person, including
any and all kinds of buildings, or any kind of a building in the process of
construction, or any personal property, within the corporate limits.
(1977 Code, § 9-1006)
State Law Reference:
   Malicious injury to personal property, S.C. Code § 16-11-510
   Malicious injury to real property, S.C. Code § 16-11-520
§ 9-3-2 SAME; INJURING CITY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure any pump or electric light or
lamp, or bridge or any other property of the city.
(1977 Code, § 9-1007)
§ 9-3-3 SAME; POSTING PLACARDS AND POSTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any placards, posters or
advertisements of like kind on any public property in the city or upon any
private property in the city without the consent of the owner. (1977 Code, § 9-
1002)
§ 9-3-4 SAME; FALSE ADVERTISING.
   Any person advertising by newspapers, radio, posters or otherwise,
representing that he is operating, offering or maintaining "fire sales," wreck
sales," "closing or going out of business sales" and similar businesses,
whereby the public is led to believe that they are being offered merchandise at
reduced rates on account of "fires," "wrecks," "bankruptcy," "closing out or
discontinuance of business," when in fact the sales are not bona fide, but are
fakes and frauds, and the advertisements and representations are untrue and
false, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 9-1003)
State Law Reference:
   False advertising, S.C. Code § 39-1-20
§ 9-3-5 DRAWING AND UTTERING FRAUDULENT CHECK, DRAFT OR OTHER WRITTEN ORDER.
   (A)   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 34-11-90, the city hereby adopts and
incorporates into this Code, S.C. Code §§ 34-11-60 through 34-11-100. A
violation of any of these provisions shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in the statutes.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in paragraph (A), a charge of
twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be imposed on anyone issuing a bad check to the
city for the payment of any municipal bill or fee.
(Ord. CM-42, passed 9-19-1985; Am. Ord. 99-25, passed 1-18-2000)
Cross reference:
   Charges for bad checks received as payment for water and sewer charges, Sec.
4-4-14
§ 9-3-6 NEIGHBORHOOD PARK HOURS.
   (A)   The following City Neighborhood Parks shall be open for public use
beginning at sun up and ending at sundown due to not having adequate lighting
for activities. Anyone on the park property prior to sun up or after sundown
shall be guilty of the offense of trespass.
      (1)   Harmon Park (North 8th Avenue).
      (2)   Elizabeth Lane Park.
      (3)   West Calhoun Park.
      (4)   East Street Park.
   (B)   During the Neighborhood Park Hours, the City Neighborhood Parks shall
not be reserved for any special events or performances by any person or
organizations.
   (C)   The City Manager is hereby directed to place and maintain the
appropriate signage on all city parks in order to enforce the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 94-16, passed 7-12-1994; Am. Ord. 10-05, passed 5-10-2010; Am. Ord. 12-
15, passed 10-8-2012)
§ 9-3-7 NEWSPAPER, HANDBILL, ADVERTISER, CIRCULAR DELIVERY CONTROLLED,
SUBSCRIPTIONS EXCLUDED.
   (A)   No newspaper, advertiser, circular handbill or such materials shall be
permitted to be delivered, thrown or placed in any fashion upon the driveway or
yard of any residence within the city. Delivery of newspapers, advertisers,
circulars or handbills may be made only through the mail delivery, or by
placing the material in an elevated box designated for this purpose and placed
at the curbside. This section shall not apply to subscriptions which are
delivered to persons who have paid subscriptions.
   (B)   No newspaper, advertiser, circular handbill or such materials shall be
permitted to be delivered, thrown or placed in any fashion upon any motor
vehicle within the corporate city limits of Dillon.
(Ord. CM-90-27, passed- -; Am. Ord. 10-13, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 9-3-8 DISTRIBUTION OF NEWSPAPERS, ADVERTISERS, CIRCULARS, HANDBILLS, FROM
RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, purchase or distribute newspapers,
advertisers, circulars, handbills or other similar literature from or in the
roadway or highway (traveled portion of the street). Violation of this offense
is punishable by a fine of ten dollars ($10).
(Ord. CM-90-28, passed- -)
CHAPTER 4: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY
Section
9-4-1   Gambling; Generally
9-4-2   Same; Slot Machines and Punch Boards
§ 9-4-1 GAMBLING; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play at any game or do any act, the
result whereof is determined by chance. Nor shall it be lawful for any person
to bet or wager money or other articles or things upon any game, matter or
thing.
(1977 Code, § 9-1012)
Cross reference:
   Gambling in poolrooms and bowling alleys, Sec.
7-4-4
State Law Reference:
   Gambling and lotteries, S.C. Code §§ 16-19-10 et seq.
§ 9-4-2 SAME; SLOT MACHINES AND PUNCH BOARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on his premises, or
operate within the city any vending or slot machine, punchboard, pullboard or
other device pertaining to games of chance of whatever name or kind, except
automatic weighing, measuring, musical and vending machines, which are so
constructed as to give a certain uniform and fair return in value for each coin
deposited therein and in which there is no element of change; provided, that
this section is also intended to prohibit all vending, slot machines,
punchboards, pullboards or different pictures, words, or symbols at different
plays, or different numbers, whether in words or figures, or which deposit
tokens or coins at irregular intervals or in varying numbers to the player or
in the machine.
   (B)   Any vending or slot machine, punchboard, pullboard or other device
pertaining to games of chance, prohibited by this section, shall be seized by
any officer of the city and shall be held by the officer until the offending
owner or custodian thereof is tried under this section. If the owner is
convicted the machine or device shall be destroyed, otherwise it shall be
returned to the owner.
(1977 Code, § 9-1013)
State Law Reference:
   Minor playing pinball machines, S.C. Code § 20-7-8915
CHAPTER 5: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
Article A: Synthetic Methadone
   
9-5-1   Findings of Fact
   
9-5-2   Prohibitions
   
9-5-3   Penalties
Article B: Synthetic Marijuana
   
9-5-10   Findings and Determination
   
9-5-11   Definition
   
9-5-12   Advertisement, Sale, and Use Prohibited
   
9-5-13   Penalties
ARTICLE A: SYNTHETIC METHADONE
§ 9-5-1 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The City of Dillon (the "city"), is an incorporated municipality
located in Dillon County, South Carolina, and as such, possesses all powers
granted to municipalities by the Constitution and Laws of the State of South
Carolina, including S.C. § 5-7-30, relating to the regulation of streets,
markets, and public health.
   (B)   After a careful study of the issue, the City Council of the city
("Council") has determined that various preparations of the chemicals
Methylone, Mephedrone, Methoxymethcathinone, Methylenedioxypyrovalerone, and
Fluoromethcathinone are being created, manufactured, marketed, sold,
distributed, possessed, and used within the municipal limits of the city. Such
substances are well documented as dangerous "synthetic" or "designer" drugs and
pose real and present danger to public health in the city.
   (C)   None of Methylone, Mephedrone, Methoxymethcathinone,
Methylenedioxypyrovalerone, and Fluoromethcathinone is a scheduled substance or
is otherwise prohibited by state or federal law as to manufacture, sale,
possession, or use.
(Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 9-5-2 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, manufacture, market, sell,
distribute, possess, or use Methylone, Mephedrone, Methoxymethcathinone,
Methylenedioxypyrovalerone, and Fluoromethcathinone or any preparation or
compound containing such substances in any form within the municipal limits of
the city.
(Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 9-5-3 PENALTIES.
   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
9-5-2 shall be subject to a civil fine of not greater than five thousand
dollars ($5,000). Imposition of such fine shall not be deemed a criminal
penalty, and shall not give rise to any disability or legal disadvantage based
on conviction of a criminal offense.
(Ord. 11-14, passed 10-10-2011)
ARTICLE B: SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA
§ 9-5-10 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The City of Dillon (the "city"), is an incorporated municipality
located in Dillon County, South Carolina, and as such, possesses all powers
granted to municipalities by the Constitution and Laws of the State of South
Carolina, including the powers enumerated in S.C. § 5-7-30, relating to the
regulation of streets, markets, and public health.
   (B)   This article is added to promote, protect, and provide for the health,
safety and welfare of the City of Dillon and its citizens.
   (C)   This article is necessary and proper due to the following:
      (1)   The city currently lacks an ordinance prohibiting and restricting
the use of synthetic marijuana;
      (2)   The absence of such ordinance may allow for the increased
prevalence of synthetic marijuana usage and dangers associated therewith in the
city;
      (3)   The adoption of ordinances related to the prohibition of synthetic
marijuana shall provide law enforcement with the necessary ordinances to
prevent drug use and drug-related crimes in the city;
      (4)   The prevention of drug use and drug-related crimes shall promote
the public health, safety, order, appearance and general welfare of all
citizens by providing for a safer and healthier city.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 9-5-11 DEFINITION.
   As used in this article, the following term shall have the meaning indicated
in this section.
   SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA shall mean and refer to all chemical compounds intended
to replicate, mimic or cause a similar reaction to the effects of marijuana or
cannabis. Such compounds are known or marketed under such names as THC, HU-210,
Cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH-073, K2, spice herbal incense, herbal smoking
blends, and other names. Further, SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA shall be considered an
illegal narcotic as further provided in the City of Dillon Code.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 9-5-12 ADVERTISEMENT, SALE, AND USE PROHIBITED.
   The advertisement, sale and use of synthetic marijuana is prohibited within
the City of Dillon.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 9-5-13 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction must be punished up to the maximum fines and
penalties as allowed by the South Carolina Code of Laws that may be imposed in
a municipal or magistrate’s court for each subsequent offense. Each day upon
which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability and costs
provided for herein.
(Ord. 11-15, passed 10-10-2011)
CHAPTER 6: UNLAWFUL LOITERING
Section
9-6-1   Unlawful loitering, public property and rights-of-way
9-6-2   Police order to disperse
9-6-3   Penalty; continuing violations
9-6-4   Court order on jurisdictional limits
§ 9-6-1 UNLAWFUL LOITERING, PUBLIC PROPERTY AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter on the public property and
rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the city limits with no apparent
purpose other than to intimidate others from entering onto the subject property
and rights-of-way, to establish control over subject property and rights-of-
way, and/or to conceal illegal activities thereon in such a manner as to:
   (A)   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person;
   (B)   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
   (C)   Obstruct or hinder the free passage of vehicles or pedestrians;
   (D)   Obstruct or interfere with any person lawfully on the subject property
and rights of way;
   (E)   Engage in begging;
   (F)   Engage in gambling;
   (G)   Engage in prostitution;
   (H)   Solicit or engage in any business, trade or commercial transaction
unless specifically authorized or licensed to do so;
   (I)   Unlawfully use or possess an unlawful drug; or
   (J)   Unlawfully use or possess alcoholic beverages, beer, or wine.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 12-12-2016; Am. Ord. 23-19, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 9-6-2 POLICE ORDER TO DISPERSE.
   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in §
9-6-1 herein, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that
person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to move on or
disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty
of a violation of this chapter. Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to punishment as prescribed in §
9-6-3. Any such violation shall constitute a separate offense on each
successive day continued.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 9-6-3 PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who is convicted of any violation of this ordinance, the court
before whom an offender shall be tried may sentence him to pay a fine not
exceeding the maximum fine permitted by law or serve a term not exceeding
thirty (30) days in jail, or both. Each day any violation of this chapter shall
continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 12-12-2016)
§ 9-6-4 COURT ORDER ON JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS.
   In addition to the penalty that may be imposed pursuant to §
9-6-3 above, any person who is arrested for and/or convicted of violating any
provision of this chapter may be subject to an order of the court which shall
impose a jurisdictional limit on said person prohibiting his presence in a
specific geographic area of the city. Failure to comply with the court order
shall constitute a violation of the court order and shall result in the
following: (1) in the case of a bond where jurisdictional limits have been
imposed, the bond may be revoked and the person shall be incarcerated until
trial; and/or (2) in the case of a sentence where jurisdictional limits have
been imposed, the suspended sentence may be revoked and the person shall be
incarcerated until the person has served the original sentence imposed by the
court without any portion thereof suspended.
(Ord. 16-16, passed 12-12-2016)
APPENDICES
Table
   
I.   STREET NAME CHANGES
   
II.   ANNEXATIONS
   
III.   AGREEMENTS
   
IV.   ZONING
TABLE I: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
02-21    12-9-2002   Renaming Floyd Court to Blue Heron Cove.
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
99-  2-8-   Annexing Garris property located on Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-25).
01   1999
99-  2-8-   Annexing Bethea property located on Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-26).
02   1999
99-  2-8-   Annexing Stephens properties located on Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-28, #58-
03   1999   08-00-29, #58-08-00-30).
99-  3-8-   Annexing Elvington property located on Roberts Road (Tax Map # 49-16-08-01).
05   1999
99-  6-14-  Annexing Bright Dillon Associates property located on Radford Boulevard (Tax Map
07   1999   # 49-15-00-59).
99-  7-12-  Annexing Lane property located on Highway 301 South (Tax Map # 69-00-00-64).
12   1999
99-  8-9-   Annexing Grant property located on John Street (Tax Map # 59-08-07-05).
14   1999
99-  9-13-  Annexing City of Dillon property located on South Carolina Highway #9 East
18   1999   beside the Riverside Cemetery (Tax Map # 59-00-00-19).
99-  10-11- Annexing Bozard property located 250.59 feet north of Floyd Court (Tax Map # 59-
21   1999   12-11-21).
99-  10-11- Annexing Laurens W. Floyd Life Estate property located 150.00 feet north of
22   1999   Floyd Court (Tax Map # 59-12-11-22).
00-  3-13-  Annexing Ball property located on US Highway #301 North (Tax Map # 49-16-02-05).
02   2000
00-  5-8-   Annexing Jackson property located on Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-42).
06   2000
00-  5-8-   Annexing Jacobs property located on Roberts Road (Tax Map # 49-16-12-09).
07   2000
00-  6-12-  Annexing Cottingham property located on East Main Street (Tax Map # 69-04-01-
09   2000   19).
00-  7-10-  Annexing Coward property located on South MacArthur Avenue (Tax Map # 69-02-02-
13   2000   12).
00-  7-10-  Annexing Bethea property located on US Highway #301 North (Tax Map # 59-03-11-
14   2000   17).
00-  7-10-  Annexing Brown property located on US Highway #301 North (Tax Map # 49-16-02-
15   2000   03).
00-  8-14-  Annexing D. G. Holdings LLC property located on North 1st Avenue (Tax Map # 59-
16   2000   03-02-12).
00-  12-11- Annexing Woodle property located on Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-48).
18   2000
01-  6-11-  Annexing Palmetto Properties property located on Radford Boulevard (Tax Map #
09   2001   49-15-00-58).
01-  9-10-  Annexing Washington properties located on Highway 34 West (Tax Map # 58-12-00-
14   2001   05, #58-12-00-06).
01-  11-12- Annexing Robardi, Inc. property located on Radford Boulevard (Tax Map # 49-15-
16   2001   00-65).
01-  11-12- Annexing Robardi, Inc. property located on Radford Boulevard (Tax Map # 49-15-
17   2001   00-66).
01-  11-12- Annexing Robardi, Inc. property located on Radford Boulevard (Tax Map # 49-15-
18   2001   00-64).
01-  11-12- Annexing Samuel-Wade property located on East Dargan Street (Tax Map # 69-04-04-
21   2001   40).
01-  12-10- Annexing Watts property located on East Dargan Street (Tax Map # 69-04-11-06).
22   2001
01-  12-10- Annexing Watts property located on East Dargan Street (Tax Map # 69-04-11-07).
23   2001
01-  12-10- Annexing Watts property located on East Dargan Street (Tax Map # 69-04-11-08).
24   2001
01-  12-10- Annexing Watts property located on East Dargan Street (Tax Map # 69-04-11-09).
25   2001
01-  12-10- Annexing Watts property located on East Dargan Street (Tax Map # 69-04-11-10).
26   2001
02-  2-11-  Annexing Miller and Ivey property located onTyler Road with right-of-way on
01   2002   Highway #301 South (Tax Map # 69-00-00-65).
02-  2-11-  Annexing Wright property located on Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-40).
02   2002
02-  7-8-   Annexing Faulk property located on 502 Lockemy Highway (Tax Map # 69-03-18-36).
16   2002
03-  2-10-  Annexing Lynn property located on 528 Lakeside Court (Tax Map # 49-16-12-13).
01   2003
03-  5-12-  Annexing Ball property located on Highway #301 North (Tax Map # 49-16-02-06).
07   2003
03-  5-12-  Annexing Brewer property located at 1722 Lila Court (Tax Map # 49-16-11-13).
08   2003
03-  5-12-  Annexing East Dillon Baptist Church property located within the 800 block of
09   2003   South 16th Avenue (Tax Map # 69-03-03-12).
03-  7-14-  Annexing First Presbyterian Church property located at 1413 Commerce Drive (Tax
15   2003   Map #49-00-00-235).
03-  11-10- Annexing Faulk property located within the 500 block of Lockemy Highway (Tax Map
21   2003   #69-03-18-37).
03-  12-8-  Annexing Price property located at 512 Roberts Road (Tax Map # 49-16-09-03).
23   2003
03-  12-8-  Annexing Small property located at 713 Lila Court (Tax Map # 49-16-11-15).
24   2003
04-  2-16-  Annexing Open Door Community Church property located at 1502 Commerce Drive (Tax
01   2004   Map #49-00-00-236).
04-  12-13- Annexing Second Baptist Church of Dillon property located at 1016 Highway #301
18   2004   South (Tax Map #69-02-08-01).
04-  1-17-  Annexing Cousar properties located at 1218 Highway #34 West (Tax Map #58-12-00-
21   2005   12, #58-12-00-13).
06-  3-13-  Annexing Bethea property located at 1214 Highway 301 North (Tax Map # 59-03-11-
02   2006   01) and zoning such property B-2 (Highway Commercial).
06-  3-13-  Annexing Bethea property located at 1206 Highway 301 North (Tax Map # 59-03-11-
03   2006   16) and zoning such property B-2 (Highway Commercial).
06-  3-13-  Annexing Cheung property located at 1210 Highway 301 North (Tax Map # 59-03-11-
04   2006   02) and zoning such property B-2 (Highway Commercial).
06-  3-13-  Annexing Cheung property located on Julia Lane (Tax Map # 59-03-11-03) and
05   2006   zoning such property B-2 (Highway Commercial).
            Annexing Motley enterprises LLC properties located at the Northeast corner of
06-  3-13-  North Longstreet Road (Tax Map #s 58-08-00-05; 58-08-00-06; 58-08-00-07; 58-08-
06   2006   00-08; 58-08-00-09; 58-08-00-10; and 58-08-00-11) and zoning such properties R-
            7 (Medium Density Residential).
06-  3-13-  Annexing Bethea property consisting of a portion of land transferred from (Tax
07   2006   Map # 59-03-11-04) on Highway 301 North to within the boundary of Lot #2 and
            zoning such property B-2 (Highway Commercial).
            Annexing Helen Palmer property consisting of one lot located at Tax Map # 58-12-
06-  11-13- 00-15 into the city with the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-way on Highway 34
25   2006   West that bounds the parcel being annexed and zoning the property R-7 (Medium
            Density Residential District).
07-  3-12-  Annexing property located at 1726 Lila Court (Tax Map # 49-16-11-14) and zoning
01   2007   R-2 (Single-Family Residential District).
07-  5-14-  Annexing property located at 1243 Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-45) and zoning
06   2007   R-7 (Medium Density Residential District).
07-  5-14-  Annexing property located on Commerce Drive (Tax Map # 49-00-00-241) and zoning
07   2007   B-2 (Highway Commercial District.
07-  5-14-  Annexing property located on Commerce Drive (Tax Map # 49-00-00-157) and zoning
08   2007   B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
07-  5-14-  Annexing property located on Commerce Drive (Tax Map # 49-00-00-239) and zoning
09   2007   B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
07-  5-14-  Annexing property located on Commerce Drive (Tax Map # 49-00-00-154) and zoning
10   2007   B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
07-  10-8-  Annexing property located at 1311 Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-49) and zoning
20   2007   R-7 (Medium Density Residential District).
            Annexing property bounded on the north by Enterprise Road; and on the east and
07-  12-10- southeast by SC #9 (Radford Boulevard) and by Martin Luther King Boulevard; and
21   2007   on the west by property of the estate of Jacob R. Rogers (Tax Map # 49-51) and
            zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
07-  11-12- Annexing property located 50 feet southeast of South 28th Avenue and east
22   2007   Hampton Street (Tax Map # 69-04-03-02) and zoning R-5 (High Density Residential
            District).
07-  11-12- Annexing property located on the southeast corner of intersection South 28th
23   2007   Avenue and East Hampton Street (Tax Map # 69-04-03-01) and zoning R-5 (High
            Density Residential District).
07-  12-10- Annexing property located within the 1200 Block of Highway 301 South (Tax Map #
25   2007   69-2-6-6) and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
08-  2-11-  Annexing property located at the southwest corner of Lockemy Highway and Taylor
01   2008   Street (Tax Map# 69-03-18-23) and zoning M-H (Mobile Home District).
08-  2-11-  Annexing property located at 1306 Highway #34 West (Tax Map # 58-12-00-19) and
02   2008   zoning R-7 (Medium Density Residential District).
08-  2-11-  Annexing property located within the 1300 Block of Highway #34 West (Tax Map #
03   2008   58-12-00-18) and zoning R-7 (Medium Density Residential District).
08-  6-9-   Annexing property located on Highway 301 North (Tax Map # 59-03-11-04) and
11   2008   zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
08-  6-9-   Annexing property located at 546 Lakeside Court (Tax Map # 49-00-00-113) and
12   2008   zoning R-12 (Single-Family Residential District).
08-  6-9-   Annexing property located at 202 Poplar Street (Tax Map # 69-02-01-10) and
13   2008   zoning R-5 (High Density Residential District).
08-  6-9-   Annexing property located at 200 Poplar Street (Tax Map # 69-02-01-02) and
14   2008   zoning R-5 (High Density Residential District).
08-  8-11-  Annexing property located on Rabbit Place Road (Tax Map # 49-00-00-156) and
18   2008   zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
08-  8-11-  Annexing property located on Rabbit Place Road (Tax Map # 49-00-00-64) and
19   2008   zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
08-  10-13- Annexing property located on South 6th Avenue (Tax Map # 69-02-12-09) and zoning
22   08     M-H (Mobile Home District).
08-  11-10- Annexing property located within the 1600 Block of East Dargan Street (Tax Map #
23   2008   69-04-12-27) and zoning R-5 (High Density Residential District).
08-  11-10- Annexing property located within the 1600 Block of East Dargan Street (Tax Map #
24   2008   69-04-12-28) and zoning R-5 (High Density Residential District).
08-  12-8-  Annexing property located at 1230 Highway 34 West (Tax Map # 58-12-00-16) and
28   2008   zoning R-7 (Medium Density Residential District).
08-  12-8-  Annexing property located at 1149 Bass Lake Place (Tax Map # 40-00-00-128) and
29   2008   zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
09-  2-9-   Annexing property located at 1235 Tyler Road (Tax Map # 58-08-00-43) and zoning
01   2009   R-7 (Medium Density Residential District).
09-  4-13-  Annexing property located on Highway 301 South (Tax Map # 69-02-09-01) and
02   2009   zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
09-  4-13-  Annexing property located on Coates Street (Tax Map # 69-02-08-03) and zoning B-
03   2009   2 (Highway Commercial District).
09-  4-13-  Annexing property located on Coates Street (Tax Map # 69-02-08-04) and zoning B-
04   2009   2 (Highway Commercial District).
09-  5-11-  Annexing property located on Highway 301 North (Tax Map # 49-16-02-02) and
06   2009   zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
09-  6-8-   Annexing property located on Radford Boulevard (Tax Map # 49-15-00-38) and
13   2009   zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
09-  10-12- Annexing property located on East Dargan Street (Tax Map #69-04-04-39) and
18   2009   zoning R-5 (High Density Residential District).
10-  10-11- Annexing property located approximately 287.97 feet east of East Palmetto Street
11   2010   (Tax Map #69-02-15-27) and zoning M-H (Mobile Home District).
11-  6-13-  Annexing the Dillon County Board of Education property (Tax Map #49-16-02-26)
05   2011   and zoning R-12 (Residential District).
11-  6-13-  Annexing the Dillon County Board of Education property (Tax Map #49-16-02-27)
06   2011   and zoning R-12 (Residential District).
11-  6-13-  Annexing Hardikbhai M. Patel property (Tax Map #40-14-00-31) and zoning R-5
07   2011   (High Density Residential District).
11-  6-13-  Annexing Hardikbhai M. Patel property (Tax Map #40-14-00-62) and zoning B-2
08   2011   (Highway Commercial District).
11-  10-10- Annexing Dan & Alice Hamer property located approximately 100 feet east of East
13   2011   Palmetto Street (Tax Map #69-02-15-26) and zoning M-H (Mobile Home District).
11-  12-12- Annexing John Wayne Ellis II and Karen Hayes Ellis property located at 1401 East
18   2011   Jefferson Street (Tax Map #59-16-01-12 and 13) and zoning R-7 (Medium Density
            Residential District).
12-  3-12-  Annexing Joseph and Teresa Pernell property located at 1223 Tyler Road (Tax Map
02   2012   # 58-08-00-39 and 58-12-00-28) and zoning R-7 (Medium Density Residential
            District).
12-  7-9-   Annexing John L. Curtis L’Est, etal property, consisting of ten feet of frontage
07   2012   contiguous to the south side of Highway 34 West and located at Tax Map System
            #58-00-00-24, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
12-  7-9-   Annexing the Brandon Bethea Brown Trustee, etal property, consisting of ten feet
08   2012   of frontage contiguous to the south side of Highway 34 West and located at Tax
            Map System #58-00-00-18, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
12-  7-9-   Annexing the W.L. Bethea Farms, LTD property, consisting of ten feet of frontage
09   2012   contiguous to the south side of Highway 34 West and located at Tax Map System
            #58-00-00-05, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
12-  7-9-   Annexing the W.L. Bethea Farms, LTD property, consisting of ten feet of frontage
10   2012   contiguous to the south side of Highway 34 West and located at Tax Map System
            #58-00-00-06, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
12-  7-9-   Annexing the WL. Bethea Farms, LTD property, consisting of ten feet of frontage
11   2012   contiguous to the north side of Highway 34 West and located at Tax Map System
            #58-00-00-11, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
12-  7-9-   Annexing the Joe and Connie Johnson property, consisting of ten feet of frontage
12   2012   contiguous to the north side of Highway 34 West and located at Tax Map System
            #58-00-00-13, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
12-  7-9-   Annexing the Dan and Alice Hamer Property consisting of one lot located at Tax
13   2012   Map System #69-02-15-12, and zoning R-5 (High Density Residential District).
12-  10-8-  Annexing the Lawrence Cheng and Suiching Wong Yip property, located at 1219
16   2012   Radford Blvd at Tax Map System #49-00-00-31, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial
            District).
12-  10-8-  Annexing the Dillon House of God property, located at 902 Highway 301 South at
17   2012   Tax Map System #69- 02-01-07, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial District).
12-  12-10- Annexing the Norma Anthony property, located at 1231 Highway 34 West at Tax Map
18   2012   System #58-12- 00-26, and zoning R-5 (High Density Residential District).
13-  7-8-   Annexing the Virginia M. Jackson property, located at 1514 East Roosevelt Street
04   2013   at Tax Map System #59-16-14-04, and zoning R-7 (Medium Residential District).
13-  7-8-   Annexing the Virginia M. Jackson property, located at 1615 East Jefferson Street
05   2013   at Tax Map System #59-16-14-05, and zoning R-7 (Medium Residential District).
13-  7-8-   Annexing the Rafat A. Abudayya property located at 1506 East Dargan Street at
06   2013   Tax Map System #69-04-05-02, and zoning B-2 (Highway Commercial).
13-  1-13-  Annexing the Rosa Lee Rose property located at 209 South 28th Avenue at Tax Map
08   2014   System #69-04-03-41, and zoning R-5 High Density Residential.
13-  1-13-  Annexing the Dillon County property located at 1033 Old Latta Highway at Tax Map
09   2014   System #69-01-00-02, and zoning R-5 High Density Residential.
14-  3-10-  Annexing the Patricia Colvin property located at 1314 Highway 34 West at Tax Map
03   2014   System #58-12-00-21, and zoning R-7 Medium Density Residential.
14-  3-10-  Annexing the Ronald Gardner, Jr. property located within the 1100 Block of North
04   2014   1st Avenue at Tax Map System #59-03-02-11, and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial.
14-  1-12-  Annexing the Dan and Alice Hamer property located within the 700 Block of East
13   2015   Palmetto Street at Tax Map System #69-02-15-20, and zoning R-5 High Density
            Residential.
16-  3-14-  Annexing the Ellis M. Jones property, 1212 Highway 34 West, located at Tax Map
02   2016   System #58-12-00-11, and zoning R-7 Medium Density Residential.
16-  3-14-  Annexing the Shenika J. Jones property, 1316 Highway 34 West, located at Tax Map
03   2016   System #58-12-00-21, and zoning R-7 Medium Density Residential.
16-  3-14-  Annexing the Shenika J. Jones property, 1312 Highway 34 West, located at Tax Map
04   2016   System #58-12-00-20, and zoning R-7 Medium Density Residential.
16-  3-14-  Annexing the Ali Miloud Elhuni property, 914 Highway 301 South, located at Tax
05   2016   Map System #69-02-01-08, and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial.
16-  3-14-  Annexing the Ali Miloud Elhuni property, 918 Highway 301 South, located at Tax
06   2016   Map System #69-02-01-09, and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial.
17-  3-13-  Annexing Dillon School District #4 property approximately 925 feet east of
01   2017   Stafford Road at Tax Map System #49-00-00-99, and zoning R-12 Single-Family
            Residential.
17-  3-13-  Annexing Harry Kenny Cook, Jr. (AMS Services, LLC) property located within the
02   2017   1900 block of Highway 301 North at Tax Map System #49-00-00-173), and zoning B-
            2 Highway Commerical.
17-  10-9-  Annexing R & R Acquisitions property consisting of one lot located at Dillon
10   2017   County Tax Map #59-03-07-04 together with the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-
            way on Radford Boulevard and North 1st Avenue that bounds the parcel.
            Annexing the Ruby L. Stanley property consisting of one lot located at Dillon
18-  6-11-  County Tax Map #49-00-00-48 together with the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-
04   2018   way on Enterprise Road that bounds the parcel and zoning R-7 Medium Density
            Residential District.
            Annexing the Conner H. Bracey property consisting of one lot located at Dillon
18-  6-11-  County Tax Map #49-00-00-120 together with the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-
05   2018   way on Dean Court that bounds the parcel and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial
            District.
19-  7-1-   Annexing 1627 Highway 301 North (Dillon County Tax Map # 49-16- 01-03) and
02   2019   zoning B-2 Highway Commercial District.
            Annexing the Ali Elhuni and Nidal Alsamneh property consisting of one lot at 805
20-  3-9-   Highway 301 South and entire portion of SCDOT right-of-way on Highway 301 South
01   2020   and East Palmetto Street bounding the parcel and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial
            District.
20-  3-9-   Annexing the Ali Elhuni and Nidal Alsamneh property at 300 East Palmetto Street
02   2020   consisting of    one lot located at Tax Map #059-14-18-02 and zoning B-5 High
            Density Residential.
20-  3-9-   Annexing the Ali Elhuni property at 901 Highway 301 South, Tax Map #069-02-07-
03   2020   05, and the entire SCDOT right-of-way and zoning B- 2 Highway Commercial
            District.
20-  3-9-   Annexing Christopher Miller property at 923 Highway 301 South, Tax Map #069-02-
04   2020   07-07, and entire SCDOT right-of-way bounding the property and zoning B-
            2 Highway Commercial District.
20-  3-9-   Annexing Quiktrip Corp. property at 1700 Highway 34 West, Tax Map #058-00-00-14,
05   2020   and entire    SCDOT right-of-way on Highway 24 West bounding the property and
            zoning B-2 Highway Commercial District.
21-  2-8-   Annexing the Robert D. Miller, Jr. property consisting of one lot at Dillon
01   2021   County Tax Map #049-16-11-012, and the entire SCDOT right-of-way on Lila Court
            bounding the property and zoning R-12 Residential District.
21-  2-8-   Annexing the Robert D. Miller Jr. property consisting of one lot at Dillon
02   2021   County Tax Map #049-16-11-001, and the entire SCDOT right-of-way on Lila Court
            and Reaves Avenue bounding the property and zoning R-12 Residential District.
            Annexing the East Coast Housing, Inc. property consisting of one lot at Dillon
21-  3-8-   County Tax Map #081-00-00-001, and the entire SCDOT right-of-way on Highway 301
03   2021   South and Road Number S-17-956 bounding the property and zoning MHD Mobile Home
            District.
            Annexing the City of Dillon property consisting of one lot located within the
21-  9-13-  1600 Block of Commerce Drive, Dillon County Tax Map #049-00-00-063, and the
11   2021   entire SCDOT right-of-way on Commerce Drive bounding the parcel and zoning B-
            2 Highway Commercial District.
21-  9-13-  Annexing the Trinity Behavioral Care property consisting of one lot at Dillon
12   2021   County Tax Map #049-00-00-174, and the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-way on
            Commerce Drive bounding the parcel and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial District.
21-  10-11- Annexing the 3805 LLC property consisting of one lot at Dillon County Tax Map
14   2021   #049-15-00-050 and the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-way on Highway 301 North
            and East Reaves Avenue bounding the parcel and zoning R-12 Residential District.
21-  12-13- Annexing the 3805 LLC property consisting of one lot at Dillon County Tax Map
17   2021   #049-15-00-049 and the entire SCDOT right-of-way on Highway 301 North bounding
            the parcel and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial District.
            Annexing the Dillon School District #4 property consisting of three lots located
22-  10-10- at Dillon County Tax Map #s 049-12-03-008, 049-12-03-011 and 049-12-03-020 and
09   2022   the entire portion of SCDOT righ-of-way on Highway 301 North and Stafford Court
            bounding the parcel and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial District.
            Annexing the B&N Rental LLC property consisting of one lot located at Dillon
23-  4-10-  County Tax Map # 049-12-02-004 together with the entire portion of SCDOT right-
03   2023   of-way on Highway 301 North and Commerce Drive that bounds the parcel, zoning R-
            12 Residential District, and placing in City Council District 6.
            Annexing the William C. Schmidt property consisting of one lot located at Dillon
23-  4-10-  County Tax Map # 049-16-11-010 together with the entire portion of SCDOT right-
04   2023   of-way on Lakeside Court that bounds the parcel, zoning R-12 Residential
            District, and placing in City Council District 6.
            Annexing the Elise Talaya Fulmore property consisting of one lot located at
23-  4-10-  Dillon County Tax Map # 059-13-06-005 together with the entire portion of SCDOT
05   2023   right-of-way on Beaufort Street that bounds the parcel, zoning MHD Mobile Home
            District, and placing in City Council District 2.
            Annexing the Elise Talaya Fulmore property consisting of one lot located at
23-  4-10-  Dillon County Tax Map # 059-13-06-004 together with the entire portion of SCDOT
06   2023   right-of-way on Beaufort Street that bounds the parcel, zoning MHD Mobile Home
            District, and placing in City Council District 2.
            Annexing Top Lock Storage of Dillon, LLC property consisting of one lot located
23-  5-8-   at Dillon County Tax Map System #s 049-15-00-046, 049-15-00-047, and 049-15-00-
08   2023   048 and the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-way bounding the parcel and zoning
            B-2 Highway Commercial District.
            Annexing the Samuel Calderon-Orozco property consisting of one lot located at
23-  7-10-  Dillon County Tax Map System #049-15-00-051 and the entire portion of SCDOT
13   2023   right-of- way on Highway 301 North and East Reaves Avenue bounding the parcel
            and zoning B-2 Highway Commercial District.
            Annexing the Anna Jane Church property consisting of one lot located at Dillon
23-  7-10-  County Tax Map System #059-16-14-003 and the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-
14   2023   way on East Roosevelt Street bounding the parcel and zoning R-7 Medium Density
            Residential District.
            Annexing the Robert D. Miller Jr. property consisting of one lot located at
23-  10-9-  Dillon County Tax Map System #069-02-07-006 and the entire portion of SCDOT
17   2023   right-of-way on Highway 301 South and South Sixth Avenue bounding the parcel and
            zoning B-2 Highway Commercial District.
23-  11-13- Annexing the Daniel and Jon Bozard property consisting of one lot located at
20   2023   Dillon County Tax Map #056-12-11-018 and the entire portion of SCDOT right-of-
            way on Blue Heron Cove bounding the parcel and zoning R-12 Residential District.
24-  4-8-   Annexing the Smith Rogers Oil Company Inc. property consisting of one lot
04   2024   located at Dillon County Tax Map System # 049-15-00-070 and zoned B-2 Highway
            Commercial District.
24-  4-8-   Annexing the East Empire Holdings LLC properties consisting of four lots located
05   2024   at Dillon County Tax Map System #s 040-00-00-021, 040-00-00-022, 040-00-00-050,
            and 040-00-00-106 and zoned I-2 Basic Industrial District.
           
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
99-  11-8-  Contract with Carolina Power and Light Company to provide municipal
24   1999   electric service.
04-  10-11- Authorizing the execution of an equipment lease-purchase agreement to
14   2004   purchase a dump truck.
08-  6-9-   Contract with Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc. to provide Municipal
06   2008   Electric Service.
08-  6-9-   Gas franchise agreement with South Carolina Electric and Gas Company.
10   2008
08-  7-21-  Authorizing the execution of an equipment lease- purchase agreement to
21   2008   purchase vehicles and equipment.
15-  5-11-  Amending the Municipal Electric Service Agreement with Duke Energy
03   2015   Progress, Inc.
18-  12-10- Authorizing the lease of real estate to Dillon County Safety Officer’s
15   2018   Association
21-  9-13-  Approving a loan agreement with the South Carolina Water Quality Loan
13   2021   Authority.
23-  5-8-   Authorizing and directing the city to enter into an intergovernmental
07   2023   agreement relating to South Carolina Local Revenue Services.
           
 
TABLE IV: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-6-15-
99-08    7-12-1999   7 from (R-5) Residential District to (B-2) Business
                     District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-7-14-3 and
99-16    9-13-1999   Tax Map # 59-7-14-8, 9, & 10 from (R-7) Residential
                     District to (B-4) Neighborhood Commercial District.
                     Designating properties located at Tax Map System #59-07-
                     14-01 through 59-07-14-16, 59-07-19-01 through 59-07-19-
99-20    12-13-1999  09, 59-07-20-01 through 59-07- 20-06 and 59-07-09-05 to
                     reflect a Planned Development District on the official
                     zoning map.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-3-10-
00-03    4-10-2000   8 from (R-7) Residential District to (B-2) Highway
                     Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-08-12-05,
                     59-08-12-06, 59-12-03-01 through 59-12-03-04, 59-12-04-02
00-08    6-12-2000   through 59-12-04-11, 59-12-05-01 through 59-12-05-09, 59-
                     12-11-01 through 59-12-11-06, 59-12-11-09 through 59-12-
                     11-12, 59-12-11-20 and 59-12-11-21 from (R-7) Residential
                     District to (R-12) Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-06-28-05
01-01    3-12-2001   and 59-06-28-06 from (R-5) Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #69-03-12-07
01-08    5-14-2001   from (R-5) Residential District to (MH) Mobile Home
                     District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-11-06-04
01-19    11-12-2001  from (R-7) Residential District to (B-1) Central Business
                     District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-06-28-04
02-03    2-11-2002   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-07-18-01
02-13    6-10-2002   from (R-7) Residential District to (B-4) Neighborhood
                     Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-11-07-02
02-15    7-8-2002    from (R-7) Medium Density Residential District to (B-1)
                     Central Business District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-06-27-05
03-16    8-11-2003   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-03-05-08
03-20    10-13-2003  and 59-03-05-09 from (R-5) High Density Residential
                     District to (I-1) Light Industrial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-06-27-07
03-22    12-8-2003   and 59-06-27-08 from (R-5) High Density Residential
                     District to (B-2) Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-06-29-01
03-27    1-19-2004   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-14-07-01,
04-05    5-10-2004   59-14-07-02, 59-14-07-03 and 59-14-07-04 from (R-5) High
                     Density Residential District to (MH) Mobile Home District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-14-07-05,
04-06    5-10-2004   59-14-07-06, 59-14-07-07 and 59-14-07-08 from (R-5) High
                     Density Residential District to (MH) Mobile Home District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-14-29-01,
                     59-14-29-02, 59-14-29-03, 59-14-29-04, 59-14-29-05, 59-14-
                     29-06, 59-14-29-07, 59-14-29-08, 59-14-29-09, 59-14-29-10,
                     59-14-29-11, 59-14-29-12, 59-14-29-13, 59-14-30-01, 59-14-
04-16    11-8-2004   30-02, 59-14-30-03, 59-14-30-04, 59-14-30-05, 59-14-30-06,
                     59-14-30-14, 59-14-30-15, 59-14-30-17, 59-14-30-18, 59-14-
                     30-19, 59-14-30-20, 59-14-30-21, 59-14-30-22, 59-14-30-23,
                     59-14-30-24, and 59-14-30-26 from (I) Industrial District
                     to (R-5) High Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-14-29-19
04-17    12-13-2004  and 59-14-30-07 from (I) Industrial District to (R-5) High
                     Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-14-32-05
05-01    2-14-2005   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (I-2)
                     Basic Industrial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-10-25-01
05-03    3-14-2005   and 59-10-25-02 from (R-5) High Density Residential
                     District to (B-1) Central Business District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-10-25-07
05-06    4-11-2005   from (B-1) Central Business District to (R-5) High Density
                     Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-06-16-06
05-07    5-9-2005    from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-07-14-12
05-13    9-12-2005   and 59-07-14-13 from (R-7) Medium Density Residential
                     District to (B-2) Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-10-12-10
06-09    5-22-2006   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to a (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-07-15-06
06-10    5-22-2006   from (R-7) Medium Denisty Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-07-17-06
06-11    5-22-2006   from (R-7) Medium Density Residential District to a (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #69-03-12-04,
06-20    11-13-2006  69-03-12-05, and 69-03-12-06 from (R-5) High Density
                     Residential District to (M-H) Mobile Home District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-14-07-11
06-21    11-13-2006  and 59-14-07-12 from (B-2) Highway Commercial District to
                     (M-H) Mobile Home District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #49-00-00-37
06-22    11-13-2006  from (I-2) Basic Industrial District to (B-2) Highway
                     Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-11-03-01,
06-23    11-13-2006  59-11-03-02, 59-11-03-03, 59-11-03-04, 59-11-03-05, and
                     59-11-03-06 from (R-7) Medium Density Residential District
                     to (B-2) Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-11-04-01
06-24    11-13-2006  from (R-7) Medium Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System # 59-06-03-14
07-14    8-13-2007   and 59-06-03-15 from a (B-2) Medium Density Residential
                     District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #69-00-00-06
08-04    3-10-2008   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #69-02-12-08
08-25    11-10-2008  from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (M-H)
                     Mobile Home District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-02-01-05
09-08    5-11-2009   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (I-2)
                     Basic Industrial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-02-01-04
09-09    5-11-2009   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (I-2)
                     Basic Industrial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-11-07-01
09-12    6-8-2009    from (B-1) Central Business District to (R-7) Medium
                     Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-14-07-11
10-06    6-14-2010   from (M-H) Mobile Home District to (B-2) Highway
                     Commercial District.
                     Rezoning the property located at Tax Map System #59-10-17-
11-03    2-14-2011   05 from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning the properties located at Tax Map System #59-06-
11-04    5-9-2011    29-03 and #59-06-29-04 from (R-5) High Density Residential
                     District to (B-2) Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning the property located at Tax Map System #59-11-04-
11-10    8-8-2011    03 from (R-7) Medium Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning the property located at Tax Map system #59-10-25-
12-05    5-14-2012   07 from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-1)
                     Central Business District.
                     Rezoning the property located at Tax Map system #59-14-18-
14-10    11-10-2014  06 from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (M-H)
                     Mobile Home District.
                     Rezoning the property located at Tax Map System #69-02-12-
14-14    1-12-2015   06 from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (M-H)
                     Mobile Home District.
                     Rezoning the properties located at Tax Map System #59-06-
14-15    1-12-2015   15-01, #59-06-15-02, #59-06-15-05, #59-06-15-06 and #59-
                     06-15-08 from (R-5) High Density Residential District to
                     (B-2) Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning the property located at Tax Map System #59-07-13-
15-04    5-11-2015   03 from (R-7) Medium Density Residential District to (B-4)
                     Neighborhood Commercial District.
                     Rezoning the properties located at Tax Map System #59-07-
                     19-02, #59-07-19-03, #59-07-19-04, #59-07-19-05, #59-07-
16-07    4-11-2016   19-06, #59-07-19-07 and #59-07-19-08 from (R-7) Medium
                     Density Residential District to (B-4) Neighborhood
                     Commercial District.
                     Rezoning the properties located at Tax Map System #59-07-
16-07    4-11-2016   17-01 and #59-07-17-06 from (R-7) Medium Density
                     Residential District to a (B-4) Neighborhood Commercial
                     District.
                     Rezoning the properties located at Tax Map System #49-00-
16-15    12-12-2016  00-133, #49-00-00-53 and #49-00-00-37 from (B-2) Highway
                     Commercial District to (RU) Rural District.
                     Rezoning the properties located at Tax Map System #59-07-
17-08    9-18-2017   13-03 from (B-4) Neighborhood Commercial District to (B-7)
                     Medium Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Dillon County Tax Map #59-10-
18-01    5-14-2018   21-03 from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-
                     2) Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-06-27-06
19-05    9-9-2019    from (B-2) Highway Commercial District to (R-5) High
                     Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #59-10-17-06
19-12    12-9-2019   from (R-5) High Density Residential District to (B-2)
                     Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #049-00-00-173
20-11    8-10-2020   from (B- 2) Highway Commercial District to (R-12)
                     Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #059-10-01-01
20-12    8-10-2020   from (B-2) Highway Commercial District to (R-5) High
                     Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Tax Map System #059-07-14-012
20-14    10-12-2020  and 059- 07-14-013 from (B-2) Highway Commercial District
                     to (R-7) Medium Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Dillon County Tax Map System
23-18    10-9-2023   #059-05- 08-002 from (R-5) High Density Residential
                     District to (B-2) Highway Commercial District.
                     Rezoning property located at Dillon County Tax Map System
24-02    3-11-2024   #059-14- 14-005 from (B-2) Highway Commercial District to
                     (B-1) Central Business District.
                     Rezoning property located at Dillon County Tax Map System
24-03    3-11-2024   #059-06- 26-003 from (I-2) Basic Industrial Commercial
                     District to (R-5) High Density Residential District.
                     Rezoning property located at Dillon County Tax Map System
24-07    6-3-2024    #059-14- 14-004 from (B-2) Highway Commercial District to
                     (B-1) Central Business District.
                     Rezoning property located at Dillon County Tax Map System
24-08    6-3-2024    #059-14- 14-007 from (B-2) Highway Commercial District to
                     (B-1) Central Business District.
                     Rezoning property located at Dillon County Tax Map System
24-13    8-12-2024   #059-11- 04-006 from (R-7) Medium Density Residential
                     District to (B-2) Highway Commercial District.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to 1977 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Section Code Section
S.C. Section                    Code Section
                                1-3-48,
5-7-30                          Title 7, Chapter 1,
                                9-5-1,
                                9-5-10
5-7-130                         1-5-38
5-7-160                         1-3-3
5-7-170                         1-2-4
5-7-190                         1-2-3
5-7-230                         1-4-44
5-7-260                         1-3-21
5-7-270                         1-3-24,
                                1-3-27
                                1-3-22,
5-7-280                         1-3-27,
                                2-2-11
                                7-1-22,
5-7-300                         7-1-24,
                                7-1-27,
                                7-1-28
5-13-10 et seq.                 1-2-5
5-13-40                         1-4-9
5-13-50                         1-4-22
5-13-60                         1-4-2
5-13-70                         1-4-24
5-13-80                         1-4-28
5-13-90                         1-4-27
5-13-100                        1-4-1
5-13-10 through 5-13-100        1-1-1
5-15-62                         1-7-3
5-15-63                         1-7-2
5-15-90 et seq.                 1-7-6
5-15-125                        1-7-2
5-15-130 et seq.                1-7-7
5-15-150                        1-2-5
5-21-30                         1-5-38
5-21-110                        1-5-1
5-25-20                         2-2-1
5-25-110                        2-2-1
5-31-1140 et seq.               4-4-1
5-31-2040                       4-4-11
6-1-400 et seq.                 7-1-20
6-1-410                         7-1-11,
                                7-1-16
6-7-360                         5-3-2
6-9-50                          5-1-2
6-15-100                        4-4-11
6-29-310 et seq.                5-3-1,
                                5-3-4
6-29-360                        5-3-3
6-29-710                        5-4-72,
                                5-4-87
6-29-720(C)                     5-4-74
6-29-870                        5-4-72,
                                5-4-87
                                5-4-73,
6-29-900                        5-4-79,
                                5-4-102
6-29-950(A)                     5-4-9
6-29-1110 et seq.               5-5-1
6-29-1520                       5-4-1-1
6-29-1540                       5-4-1-1
6-29-1550                       5-4-1-1
6-29-310 through 6-29-380       5-3-1
7-13-190                        1-7-2
11-35-10 et seq.                1-5-44
12-36-920(A)                    7-8-1
12-37-30                        1-5-1
12-45-70                        1-5-5
12-49-30                        1-5-18
12-51-40 et seq.                1-5-7
12-56-10 et seq.                1-4-11
12-67-140                       1-5-75
12-67-140(3)(a)                 1-5-75
14-25-25                        1-6-21,
                                2-1-5
14-25-55                        2-1-2
14-25-105                       1-6-5
16-7-20                         9-2-10
16-7-110 et seq.                Title 9, Chapter 2
16-9-30                         Title 9, Chapter 1
16-9-210                        Title 9, Chapter 1
16-9-260                        Title 9, Chapter 1
16-11-510                       9-3-1
16-11-520                       9-3-1
16-11-600 et seq.               9-2-14
16-13-30                        9-2-14
16-13-110                       9-2-14
16-13-180                       9-2-14
16-13-230                       9-2-14
16-13-240                       9-2-14
16-13-260                       9-2-14
16-13-290                       9-2-14
16-13-320                       9-2-14
16-17-220                       Title 9, Chapter 1
16-17-420                       Title 9, Chapter 2
16-17-530                       9-2-1
16-17-570                       2-2-4,
                                2-2-3
16-17-690                       Title 9, Chapter 1
16-17-710                       9-2-14
16-19-10 et seq.                7-4-4,
                                9-4-1
16-19-60                        5-4-27
20-7-8910                       7-4-2
20-7-8915                       9-4-2
23-35-60                        2-2-34
30-4-10 et seq.                 1-3-2,
                                5-3-3
33-55-10 et seq.                7-3-1
34-11-90                        9-3-5
34-11-60 through 34-11-100      9-3-5
38-7-20                         7-1-2
38-45-10                        7-1-28
38-45-60                        7-1-28
39-1-20                         9-3-4
47-1-10 et seq.                 6-4-5,
                                Title 9, Chapter 1
47-4-110                        6-4-1
47-5-10 et seq.                 6-4-11
47-5-60                         6-4-12
47-5-80                         6-4-13
47-5-100                        6-4-13
48-1-320                        4-6-57
48-1-330                        4-6-57
48-5-10 et seq.                 4-1-1
49-23-10 et seq.                4-5-1
52-1-20 et seq.                 7-4-21
56-1-20                         8-1-2
56-3-1965                       8-1-21
56-5-30                         8-1-1
56-5-710                        8-1-1
56-5-730                        Title 8, Chapter 1
56-5-760                        Title 8, Chapter 1
56-5-2520                       6-3-22
56-5-5810 et seq.               6-3-22,
                                6-3-25
56-5-6150                       8-1-1
58-9-2200                       7-1-22
58-9-2220                       7-1-24
58-23-1220                      7-5-1
61-4-110                        9-2-9
Title 5                         5-6-1
Title 6                         5-6-1
Title 6, Chapter 29-720-C-(5)   5-4-68
                                7-1-2,
Title 38, Chapter 7             7-1-11,
                                7-1-16
                                7-1-2,
Title 38, Chapter 45            7-1-11,
                                7-1-16
Title 56, Chapter 5             8-1-1
                                7-1-2,
Title 58, Chapter 9, Article 20 7-1-11,
                                7-1-16
                                
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1977 CODE
1977 Code 2005 Code
1977 Code              2005 Code
1-1001                 1-1-1,
                       1-2-1
1-2001                 1-2-1
1-2002                 1-2-3
1-2003                 1-2-4
1-3001                 1-3-1
1-3002                 1-3-2
1-3003                 1-3-3
1-3004                 1-3-4
1-3005                 1-3-5,
                       1-3-6
1-3007                 1-3-7
1-3010                 1-3-10
1-3022                 1-3-22
1-3023                 1-3-23
1-3024                 1-3-24
1-3025                 1-3-25
1-3026                 1-3-26
1-3028                 1-3-28
1-3041                 1-3-41
1-3043                 1-3-43
1-3044                 1-3-44
1-3045                 1-3-45
1-3046                 1-3-46
1-3048                 1-3-47,
                       1-3-48
1-4001                 1-4-21
1-4002                 1-4-22
1-4003                 1-4-23
1-4006                 1-4-26
1-4007                 1-4-27
1-4008                 1-4-28
1-4009 through 1-40017 1-4-27
1-4034                 1-4-44
1-4041                 1-4-51
1-5003                 1-5-2
1-5005                 1-5-4
1-5007                 1-5-19
1-5009                 1-5-20
1-5011                 1-5-18
1-6003                 1-4-4
1-6004                 1-4-4
1-6005                 1-4-5
1-6011                 1-4-6
1-7001                 1-6-
1-7002                 1-6-
1-7003                 1-6-
1-8001                 1-7-4
1-8003                 1-7-6
2-1005                 2-1-5
2-1006                 2-1-6
2-1008                 2-1-8
2-2002                 2-2-2
2-2003                 2-2-3
2-2004                 2-2-4
2-2005                 2-2-5
2-2011                 2-2-11
2-2012                 2-2-12
2-2014                 2-2-13,
                       2-2-14
2-2015                 2-2-15
2-2016                 2-2-16
2-2017                 2-2-17
2-2018                 2-2-18
2-2019                 2-2-19
2-2020                 2-2-20
2-2011                 2-2-21
2-2022                 2-2-22
2-2024                 2-2-24
2-2032                 2-2-32
2-2033                 2-2-33
2-2034                 2-2-34
2-2035                 2-2-35
3004                   7-3-4
3005                   7-3-5
3-1005                 3-1-5
3-1006                 3-1-6
3-1009                 3-1-9
3-1010                 3-1-10
3-1011                 3-1-11
3-1013                 3-1-13
3-1015                 3-1-14
3-1016                 3-1-15
3-1017                 3-1-16
3-1018                 3-1-17
3-1019                 3-1-18
3-1021                 3-1-19
3-6                    7-3-6
5-1                    6-4-1
4010                   7-4-21
5-3001                 5-3-1
5-3003                 5-3-3
5-3004                 5-3-4
6-2003                 6-2-3
6-3001                 6-3-1,
                       6-3-2
6-4001                 6-3-3
6-4002                 6-3-4
6-4003                 6-3-5
6-4004                 6-3-7
6-5002                 6-4-2
6-5003                 6-4-3
6-5004                 6-4-4
6-5005                 6-4-5
6-5006                 6-4-6
6-5011                 6-4-11
6-5012                 6-4-12
6-5013                 6-4-13
6-5015                 6-4-16
7-2001                 7-2-1
7-4001                 7-4-1
7-4003                 7-4-3
7-4004                 7-4-4
7-4005                 7-4-5
7-4006                 7-4-6
7-4007                 7-4-7
7-4008                 7-4-8
8-1001                 8-1-1
8-1002                 8-1-2
8-1004                 8-1-3
8-1006                 8-1-5
9-1002                 9-3-3
9-1003                 9-3-4
9-1006                 9-3-1
9-1007                 9-3-2
9-1008                 9-2-7
9-1009                 9-2-8
9-1012                 9-4-1
9-1013                 9-4-2
9-1018                 9-2-5
9-1019                 9-2-6
9-1021                 9-2-10
9-1022                 9-2-11
9-1026                 9-2-12
9-1027                 9-2-2
9-1028                 9-2-3
9-1029                 9-2-4
12-37-40               1-5-3
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
CM-67    ---         6-2-21
CM-90-28 ---         9-3-8
CM-90-27 ---         9-3-7
CM-007   ---         4-4-22
-        5-1980      4-4-10
-        8-10-1981   6-2-16
-        2-8-1982    6-3-2
                     7-6-1,
CM-30    2-1985      7-6-2,
                     7-6-3
                     4-1-1,
                     4-1-2,
                     4-1-3,
                     4-1-4,
                     4-2-1,
                     4-2-2,
                     4-2-5,
                     4-2-6,
                     4-2-7,
                     4-2-8,
                     4-2-9,
                     4-2-10,
                     4-2-11,
                     4-2-12,
                     4-2-13,
                     4-2-14,
                     4-2-15,
                     4-2-16,
                     4-2-17,
                     4-2-18,
                     4-2-19,
                     4-2-20,
                     4-2-21,
                     4-2-23,
                     4-2-24,
                     4-3-1,
                     4-3-2,
                     4-3-3,
                     4-3-4,
                     4-3-6,
                     4-3-7,
                     4-3-8,
                     4-3-9,
                     4-3-10,
-        10-14-1985  4-3-11,
                     4-4-16,
                     4-3-12,
                     4-3-14,
                     4-3-15,
                     4-3-16,
                     4-3-17,
                     4-3-18,
                     4-3-19,
                     4-3-20,
                     4-3-21,
                     4-3-22,
                     4-3-23,
                     4-3-24,
                     4-3-25,
                     4-3-26,
                     4-3-27,
                     4-3-28,
                     4-3-29,
                     4-3-30,
                     4-3-31,
                     4-3-32,
                     4-3-33,
                     4-4-1,
                     4-4-3,
                     4-4-5,
                     4-4-6,
                     4-4-7,
                     4-4-8,
                     4-4-11,
                     4-4-13,
                     4-4-14,
                     4-4-17,
                     4-4-18,
                     4-4-19,
                     4-4-20
CM-89-30 10-10-1989  9-2-1
CM-90-2  3-13-1990   6-4-17
90-11    6-1990      8-1-7
CM-90-14 7-9-1990    9-2-9
                     4-6-1,
                     4-6-2,
                     4-6-3,
                     4-6-4,
                     4-6-5,
                     4-6-6,
                     4-6-7,
                     4-6-8,
                     4-6-9,
                     4-6-10,
                     4-6-11,
                     4-6-12,
                     4-6-13,
                     4-6-15,
                     4-6-16,
                     4-6-17,
                     4-6-18,
                     4-6-19,
                     4-6-20,
                     4-6-21,
                     4-6-22,
                     4-6-23,
                     4-6-24,
                     4-6-25,
                     4-6-26,
                     4-6-27,
                     4-6-28,
                     4-6-29,
                     4-6-30,
                     4-6-31,
                     4-6-32,
                     4-6-33,
CM-93-34 12-13-1993  4-6-34,
                     4-6-35,
                     4-6-36,
                     4-6-37,
                     4-6-38,
                     4-6-39,
                     4-6-40,
                     4-6-41,
                     4-6-42,
                     4-6-43,
                     4-6-44,
                     4-6-45,
                     4-6-46,
                     4-6-47,
                     4-6-48,
                     4-6-49,
                     4-6-50,
                     4-6-51,
                     4-6-52,
                     4-6-53,
                     4-6-54,
                     4-6-55,
                     4-6-56,
                     4-6-57,
                     4-6-58,
                     4-6-59,
                     4-6-60,
                     4-6-61,
                     4-6-62,
                     4-6-63,
                     4-6-64,
                     4-6-65,
                     4-6-66,
                     4-6-67
94-16    7-12-1994   9-3-6
95-12    7-10-1995   5-3-1
                     5-7-1,
                     5-7-2,
                     5-7-3,
                     5-7-4,
                     5-7-5,
                     5-7-6,
95-15    7-10-1995   5-7-8,
                     5-7-9,
                     5-7-10,
                     5-7-11,
                     5-7-12,
                     5-7-13,
                     5-7-15
CM-42    9-19-1995   9-3-5
96-07    3-11-1996   4-4-15
96-17    8-5-1996    4-3-5
96-20    10-14-1996  9-2-13
97-02    2-10-1997   4-4-9
97-03    2-10-1997   9-2-14
97-06    3-10-1997   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
                     7-1-9,
97-07    3-10-1997   7-5-3,
                     7-1-17,
                     7-7-2
97-26    1-12-1998   4-4-15
98-06    3-9-1998    6-3-21
98-10    5-11-1998   7-1-22
8-17     10-12-1998  6-3-10,
                     6-3-11
                     6-2-1,
                     6-2-2,
                     6-2-3,
                     6-2-4,
                     6-2-5,
                     6-2-6,
                     6-2-7,
                     6-2-8,
                     6-2-9,
                     6-2-10,
                     6-2-11,
                     6-2-12,
98-15    10-12-1998  6-2-13,
                     6-2-14,
                     6-2-15,
                     6-2-16,
                     6-2-17,
                     6-2-18,
                     6-2-19,
                     6-2-20,
                     6-2-21,
                     6-2-22,
                     6-2-23,
                     6-2-24,
                     6-2-25,
                     6-2-26
                     5-8-1,
                     5-8-2,
                     5-8-3,
                     5-8-4,
                     5-8-5,
                     5-8-6,
                     5-8-7,
98-16    10-12-1998  5-8-8,
                     5-8-9,
                     5-8-10,
                     5-8-11,
                     5-8-12,
                     5-8-13,
                     5-8-14,
                     5-8-15,
                     5-8-16
99-01    2-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-02    2-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-03    2-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-05    3-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-07    6-14-1999   Appendix, Table II
99-08    7-12-1999   Appendix, Table IV
99-09    7-12-1999   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
99-12    7-12-1999   Appendix, Table II
99-14    8-9-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-15    8-9-1999    5-10-1,
                     5-10-2
                     7-8-1,
                     7-8-2,
99-13    9-13-1999   7-8-3,
                     7-8-4,
                     7-8-5,
                     7-8-6
99-16    9-13-1999   Appendix, Table IV
99-17    9-13-1999   7-1-24
99-18    9-13-1999   Appendix, Table II
99-21    10-11-1999  Appendix, Table II
99-22    10-11-1999  Appendix, Table II
99-23    11-8-1999   7-1-24
99-24    11-8-1999   Appendix, Table III
99-20    12-13-1999  Appendix, Table IV
99-25    1-18-2000   9-3-5
99-26    1-18-2000   4-4-14
00-01    2-14-2000   8-1-22
00-02    3-13-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-03    4-10-2000   Appendix, Table IV
00-04    4-10-2000   4-4-10
00-06    5-8-2000    Appendix, Table II
00-07    5-8-2000    Appendix, Table II
00-08    6-12-2000   Appendix, Table IV
00-09    6-12-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-12    6-12-2000   6-2-26
00-13    7-10-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-14    7-10-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-15    7-10-2000   Appendix, Table II
                     5-4-55,
00-17    7-10-2000   5-4-56,
                     5-4-58,
                     5-4-66
00-16    8-14-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-18    12-11-2000  Appendix, Table II
                     4-7-1,
                     4-7-2,
                     4-7-3,
                     4-7-4,
                     4-7-5,
00-19    12-11-2000  4-7-6,
                     4-7-7,
                     4-7-8,
                     4-7-9,
                     4-7-10,
                     4-7-11
01-01    3-12-2001   Appendix, Table IV
01-08    5-14-2001   Appendix, Table IV
01-09    6-11-2001   Appendix, Table II
01-11    6-21-2001   6-2-26
01-13    9-10-2001   5-5-35
01-14    9-10-2001   Appendix, Table II
01-15    9-10-2001   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
01-16    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-17    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-18    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-19    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table IV
01-20    11-12-2001  5-5-36
01-21    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-22    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-23    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-24    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-25    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-26    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-27    12-10-2001  8-1-8
02-01    2-11-2002   Appendix, Table II
02-02    2-11-2002   Appendix, Table II
02-03    2-11-2002   Appendix, Table IV
02-05    4-8-2002    5-5-11,
                     5-5-17
02-06    4-8-2002    5-4-18
02-07    5-13-2002   6-3-1
02-08    6-10-2002   5-5-11,
                     5-5-17
02-09    6-10-2002   5-5-35
02-10    6-10-2002   5-5-36
                     5-4-55,
                     5-4-56,
02-11    6-10-2002   5-4-57,
                     5-4-59,
                     5-4-61,
                     5-4-66
02-13    6-10-2002   Appendix, Table IV
02-15    7-8-2002    Appendix, Table IV
02-16    7-8-2002    Appendix, Table II
02-17    7-8-2002    6-2-26
02-18    10-14-2002  4-4-9
02-19    10-14-2002  4-3-34
02-21    12-9-2002   Appendix, Table I
03-01    2-10-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-02    3-10-2003   4-1-1
03-07    5-12-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-08    5-12-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-09    5-12-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-13    7-14-2003   6-2-26
03-15    7-14-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-16    8-11-2003   Appendix, Table IV
03-17    8-11-2003   Title 4, Chapter 5, Sections Ch. I, II, III, IV
                     7-9-1,
                     7-9-2,
03-18    9-8-2003    7-9-3,
                     7-9-4,
                     7-9-5,
                     7-9-6
03-20    10-13-2003  Appendix, Table IV
03-21    11-10-2003  Appendix, Table II
03-22    12-8-2003   Appendix, Table IV
03-23    12-8-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-24    12-8-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-25    12-8-2003   5-4-70
03-26    1-19-2004   4-4-9
03-27    1-19-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-01    2-16-2004   Appendix, Table II
04-02    3-8-2004    5-4-103
04-05    5-10-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-06    5-10-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-09    6-30-2004   6-2-26
04-11    9-13-2004   7-1-24
04-13    10-11-2004  5-4-27,
                     5-4-61
04-14    10-11-2004  Appendix, Table III
04-16    11-8-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-17    12-13-2004  Appendix, Table IV
04-18    12-13-2004  Appendix, Table II
04-21    1-17-2005   Appendix, Table II
05-01    2-14-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-02    3-14-2005   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
05-03    3-14-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-04    4-11-2005   5-5-22,
                     5-4-70
05-06    4-11-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-07    5-9-2005    Appendix, Table IV
05-08    6-13-2005   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
05-10    7-11-2005   6-2-26
05-11    9-12-2005   5-4-1-1
05-13    9-12-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-14    10-10-2005  1-4-10
05-15    10-10-2005  4-1-1
                     13-1-7,
                     13-4-1,
05-16    12-12-2005  13-4-4,
                     13-4-5,
                     13-4-7
06-01    3-13-2006   5-5-17-6
06-02    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-03    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-04    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-05    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-06    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-07    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-08    5-8-2006    6-4-17
06-09    5-22-2006   Appendix, Table IV
06-10    5-22-2006   Appendix, Table IV
06-11    5-22-2006   Appendix, Table IV
                     5-4-55-5,
                     5-4-56-5,
                     5-4-57-5,
                     5-4-58-2,
                     5-4-59-2,
                     5-4-60-2,
06-12    6-12-2006   5-4-61-2,
                     5-4-63-2,
                     5-4-64-2,
                     5-4-65-12,
                     5-4-66-8,
                     5-4-67-2,
                     5-4-103-2
06-14    6-12-2006   6-2-26
06-16    7-10-2006   5-1-1
                     6-4-23,
                     6-4-24,
                     6-4-25,
                     6-4-26,
06-17    9-11-2006   6-4-27,
                     6-4-28,
                     6-4-29,
                     6-4-30,
                     6-4-31
06-18    10-9-2006   6-2-8,
                     6-2-19
06-19    11-13-2006  5-4-74
06-20    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-21    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-22    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-23    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-24    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-25    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table II
07-01    3-12-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-03    3-12-2007   1-4-11
                     6-5-2,
07-04    5-14-2007   6-5-5,
                     6-5-11
                     5-4-103-1,
07-05    4-9-2007    5-4-103-2,
                     5-4-103-4
07-06    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-07    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-08    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-09    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-10    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-11    6-11-2007   5-4-70
07-13    6-11-2007   6-2-26
07-14    8-13-2007   Appendix, Table IV
                     6-4-9,
07-16    9-10-2007   6-4-10,
                     6-4-20
                     5-4-6,
                     5-4-55-5,
                     5-4-55-6,
                     5-4-55-7,
                     5-4-55-8,
                     5-4-55-9,
                     5-4-55-10,
                     5-4-55-11,
                     5-4-55-12,
                     5-4-55-13,
                     5-4-56-5,
                     5-4-56-7,
                     5-4-56-13,
                     5-4-57-1,
                     5-4-57-5,
                     5-4-57-8,
                     5-4-57-13,
                     5-4-58-2,
07-18    9-10-2007   5-4-59-1,
                     5-4-59-2,
                     5-4-60-2,
                     5-4-61-2,
                     5-4-63-2,
                     5-4-65-12,
                     5-4-66-1,
                     5-4-66-2,
                     5-4-66-8,
                     5-4-66-10,
                     5-4-66-11,
                     5-4-66-16,
                     5-4-66-16,
                     5-4-67-2,
                     5-4-67-4, 5-4-67-6,
                     5-4-74,
                     5-4-77,
                     5-4-103-2,
                     5-4-103-4,
                     5-4-103-9
                     1-4-1,
                     5-1-5,
                     5-1-6,
                     5-1-19,
                     5-1-20,
                     5-1-21,
                     5-1-22,
                     5-1-23,
                     5-1-24,
                     5-1-25,
07-19    9-10-2007   5-1-26,
                     5-1-27,
                     5-1-28,
                     5-1-29,
                     5-1-30,
                     5-1-31,
                     5-1-32,
                     6-3-2,
                     6-3-7,
                     7-1-18,
                     8-1-6
07-20    10-8-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-21    12-10-2007  Appendix, Table II
07-22    11-12-2007  Appendix, Table II
07-23    11-12-2007  Appendix, Table II
07-25    12-10-2007  Appendix, Table II
08-01    2-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-02    2-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-03    2-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-04    3-10-2008   Appendix, Table IV
                     6-5-5,
                     6-5-6,
                     6-5-7,
08-05    5-12-2008   6-5-8,
                     6-5-9,
                     6-5-10,
                     6-5-11
08-06    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table III
08-07    6-9-2008    6-2-26
08-10    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table III
08-11    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
08-12    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
08-13    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
08-14    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
                     5-1-16,
                     5-1-17,
08-16    6-9-2008    5-1-18,
                     5-1-20,
                     5-1-27,
                     5-1-28
08-17    7-14-2008   5-10-3
08-18    8-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-19    8-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-20    8-11-2008   6-3-12
08-21    7-21-2008   Appendix, Table III
08-22    10-13-2008  Appendix, Table II
08-23    11-10-2008  Appendix, Table II
08-24    11-10-2008  Appendix, Table II
08-25    11-10-2008  Appendix, Table IV
                     5-4-55-7,
08-26    11-10-2008  5-4-56-7,
                     5-4-57-7,
                     5-4-66-10
08-27    11-10-2008  5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
08-28    12-8-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-29    12-8-2008   Appendix, Table II
                     5-1-1,
                     5-1-33,
                     5-1-33.1,
                     5-1-33.2,
                     5-1-33.3,
                     5-1-33.4,
                     5-1-33.5,
                     5-1-33.6,
                     5-1-33.7,
                     5-1-33.8,
08-30    1-12-2009   5-1-33.9,
                     5-1-33.10,
                     5-1-33.11,
                     5-1-33.12,
                     5-1-33.13,
                     5-1-33.14,
                     5-1-33.15,
                     5-1-33.16,
                     5-1-33.17,
                     5-1-33.18,
                     5-1-33.19
09-01    2-9-2009    Appendix, Table II
09-02    4-13-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-03    4-13-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-04    4-13-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-06    5-11-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-07    5-11-2009   5-4-72
09-08    5-11-2009   Appendix, Table IV
09-09    5-11-2009   Appendix, Table IV
                     5-4-56-14,
09-10    6-8-2009    5-4-57-14,
                     5-4-66-17
                     5-4-56-1,
09-11    6-8-2009    5-4-57-1,
                     5-4-66-1
09-12    6-8-2009    Appendix, Table IV
09-13    6-8-2009    Appendix, Table II
                     1-5-60,
                     1-5-61,
09-17    10-12-2009  1-5-62,
                     1-5-63,
                     1-5-64
09-18    10-12-2009  Appendix, Table II
10-01    3-8-2010    5-4-74
10-02    3-8-2010    8-1-21
10-05    5-10-2010   9-3-6
10-06    6-14-2010   Appendix, Table IV
10-08    7-1-2010    6-2-26
10-09    7-1-2010    4-4-4
10-10    9-13-2010   5-4-74,
                     5-4-75
10-11    10-11-2010  Appendix, Table II
                     5-4-55-5,
                     5-4-56-5,
                     5-4-57-5,
                     5-4-58-2,
                     5-4-59-2,
                     5-4-60-2,
10-12    11-8-2010   5-4-61-2,
                     5-4-63-2,
                     5-4-64-2,
                     5-4-65-12,
                     5-4-66-8,
                     5-4-67-2,
                     5-4-103-2
10-13    12-13-2010  9-3-7
10-14    12-13-2010  5-1-23
10-15    1-12-2011   4-4-9
11-01    2-14-2011   5-1-1
11-03    2-14-2011   Appendix, Table IV
11-04    5-9-2011    Appendix, Table IV
11-05    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-06    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-07    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-08    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-10    8-8-2011    Appendix, Table IV
11-11    7-11-2011   5-4-74
11-12    7-11-2011   5-1-1
11-13    10-10-2011  Appendix, Table II
                     9-5-1,
11-14    10-10-2011  9-5-2,
                     9-5-3
                     9-5-10,
11-15    10-10-2011  9-5-11,
                     9-5-12,
                     9-5-13
                     5-4-58-1,
                     5-4-59-1,
11-16    12-12-2011  5-4-60-1,
                     5-4-63-1,
                     5-4-64-1,
                     5-4-103-1
11-17    12-12-2011  5-4-59-2
11-18    12-12-2011  Appendix, Table II
12-01    3-12-2012   5-4-70
12-02    3-12-2012   Appendix, Table II
12-03    4-19-2012   5-4-74
12-04    4-19-2012   5-4-74
12-05    5-14-2012   Appendix, Table IV
12-07    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-08    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-09    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-10    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-11    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-12    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-13    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
                     2-2-31,
12-14    10-8-2012   2-2-36,
                     2-2-37
12-15    10-8-2012   9-3-6
12-16    10-8-2012   Appendix, Table II
12-17    10-8-2012   Appendix, Table II
12-18    12-10-2012  Appendix, Table II
                     7-1-2,
12-19    12-10-2012  7-1-23,
                     7-1-28
13-03    7-8-2013    5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
13-04    7-8-2013    Appendix, Table II
13-05    7-8-2013    Appendix, Table II
13-06    7-8-2013    Appendix, Table II
                     5-4-55-7,
                     5-4-56-7,
13-07    10-14-2013  5-4-57-7,
                     5-4-65-14,
                     5-4-66-10,
                     5-4-67-4
13-08    1-13-2014   Appendix, Table II
13-09    1-13-2014   Appendix, Table II
14-01    3-10-2014   5-4-74
14-02    4-14-2014   5-1-33.19
14-03    3-10-2014   Appendix, Table II
14-04    3-10-2014   Appendix, Table II
                     1-5-31 ,
                     1-5-32 ,
14-05    5-12-2014   1-5-33 ,
                     1-5-34 ,
                     1-5-36
14-08    7-14-2014   6-2-26
14-09    12-8-2014   1-2-4
14-10    11-10-14    Appendix, Table IV
                     4-2-15,
                     4-2-16,
                     4-2-17,
                     4-2-18,
14-11    12-8-2014   4-2-19,
                     4-2-20,
                     4-2-21,
                     4-2-23,
                     4-2-24,
                     4-2-25
                     4-6-4 ,
                     4-6-8 ,
                     4-6-13 ,
                     4-6-23 ,
14-12    12-8-2014   4-6-33 ,
                     4-6-35 ,
                     4-6-40 ,
                     4-6-42 ,
                     4-6-46
14-13    1-12-2015   Appendix, Table II
14-14    1-12-2015   Appendix, Table IV
14-15    1-12-2015   Appendix, Table IV
15-03    5-11-2015   Appendix, Table III
15-04    5-11-2015   Appendix, Table IV
15-07    6-29-2015   6-2-26
15-08    6-29-2015   4-4-4
16-01    2-8-2016    4-4-10
16-02    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-03    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-04    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-05    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-06    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-07    4-11-2016   Appendix, Table IV
16-08    4-11-2016   Appendix, Table IV
16-10    6-30-2016   4-4-4
16-11    6-30-2016   6-2-26
16-12    8-15-2016   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
16-13    11-14-2016  3-1-11
                     5-4-55-1,
                     5-4-56-1,
16-14    12-12-2016  5-4-57-1,
                     5-4-66-1,
                     5-4-103-1
                     5-4-67,
                     5-4-67-1,
                     5- 4-67-2,
                     5-4-67-3,
                     5-4-67-4,
                     5-4-67-5,
16-15    12-12-2016  5-4-67-6,
                     5-4-67-7,
                     5-4-67-8,
                     5-4-67-9,
                     5-4-67-10,
                     5-4-67-11,
                     Appendix, Table IV
                     9-6-1,
16-16    12-12-2016  9-6-2,
                     9-6-3,
                     9-6-4
17-01    3-13-2017   Appendix, Table II
17-02    3-13-2017   Appendix, Table II
                     1-5-60,
                     1-5-61,
17-03    4-10-2017   1-5-62,
                     1-5-63,
                     1-5-64
17-05    6-12-2017   4-4-4
17-06    6-12-2017   6-2-26
17-07    7-10-2017   5-4-74
17-08    9-18-2017   Appendix, Table IV
17-09    10-9-2017   5-4-70
17-10    10-9-2017   Appendix, Table II
18-01    5-14-2018   Appendix, Table IV
18-02    5-14-2018   5-4-70
18-03    5-14-2018   3-1-9,
                     3-1-11
18-04    6-11-2018   Appendix, Table II
18-05    6-11-2018   Appendix, Table II
                     5-6-1,
                     5-6-2,
                     5-6-3,
                     5-6-4,
                     5-6-5,
                     5-6-6,
                     5-6-7,
                     5-6-8,
                     5-6-9,
                     5-6-10,
                     5-6-15,
                     5-6-20,
                     5-6-21,
                     5-6-22,
                     5-6-23,
                     5-6-24,
18-06    6-11-2018   5-6-30,
                     5-6-31,
                     5-6-32,
                     5-6-33,
                     5-6-34,
                     5-6-35,
                     5-6-40,
                     5-6-41,
                     5-6-42,
                     5-6-43,
                     5-6-44,
                     5-6-45,
                     5-6-46,
                     5-6-47,
                     5-6-48,
                     5-6-50,
                     5-6-51,
                     5-6-52
18-07    6-11-2018   6-3-1
18-09    6-11-2018   6-2-26
                     3-3-1,
                     3-3-2,
                     3-3-3,
18-10    6-11-2018   3-3-4,
                     3-3-5,
                     3-3-6,
                     3-3-7,
                     3-3-8
18-11    6-11-2018   6-4-7
18-12    7-9-2018    4-4-4
18-13    10-8-2018   6-4-8
18-14    10-8-2018   1-4-11
18-15    12-10-2018  Appendix, Table III
19-02    7-1-2019    Appendix, Table II
19-03    7-1-2019    6-2-26
19-04    7-1-2019    4-4-4
19-05    9-9-2019    Appendix, Table IV
19-06    12-9-2019   1-5-75
19-12    12-9-2019   Appendix, Table IV
20-01    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-02    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-03    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-04    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-05    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-06    3-9-2020    5-1-1
20-11    8-10-2020   Appendix, Table IV
20-12    8-10-2020   Appendix, Table IV
20-13    9-21-2020   5-4-59
20-14    10-12-2020  Appendix, Table IV
21-01    2-8-2021    Appendix, Table II
21-02    2-8-2021    Appendix, Table II
21-03    3-8-2021    Appendix, Table II
21-04    4-12-2021   5-1-33.19
                     4-6-5,
21-05    4-12-2021   4-6-14,
                     4-6-47
21-06    4-12-2021   4-2-22
21-09    6-28-2021   4-4-4
21-10    6-28-2021   6-2-26
21-11    9-13-2021   Appendix, Table II
21-12    9-13-2021   Appendix, Table II
21-13    9-13-2021   Appendix, Table III
21-14    10-11-2021  Appendix, Table II
                     7-1-1,
                     7-1-2,
                     7-1-3,
                     7-1-4,
                     7-1-5,
                     7-1-6,
                     7-1-7,
                     7-1-8,
                     7-1-9,
                     7-1-10,
21-15    12-13-2021  7-1-11,
                     7-1-12,
                     7-1-13,
                     7-1-14,
                     7-1-15,
                     7-1-16,
                     7-1-17,
                     7-1-18,
                     7-1-19,
                     7-1-20,
                     7-1-21
21-17    12-13-2021  Appendix, Table II
22-03    5-9-2022    5-1-34
22-04    5-9-2022    6-5-3
22-06    6-30-2022   6-2-26
22-08    10-10-2022  1-7-5
22-09    10-10-2022  Appendix, Table II
23-01    3-13-2023   5-1-1
23-03    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-04    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-05    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-06    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
                    
         
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
CM-67    ---         6-2-21
CM-90-28 ---         9-3-8
CM-90-27 ---         9-3-7
CM-007   ---         4-4-22
-        5-1980      4-4-10
-        8-10-1981   6-2-16
-        2-8-1982    6-3-2
                     7-6-1,
CM-30    2-1985      7-6-2,
                     7-6-3
                     4-1-1,
                     4-1-2,
                     4-1-3,
                     4-1-4,
                     4-2-1,
                     4-2-2,
                     4-2-5,
                     4-2-6,
                     4-2-7,
                     4-2-8,
                     4-2-9,
                     4-2-10,
                     4-2-11,
                     4-2-12,
                     4-2-13,
                     4-2-14,
                     4-2-15,
                     4-2-16,
                     4-2-17,
                     4-2-18,
                     4-2-19,
                     4-2-20,
                     4-2-21,
                     4-2-23,
                     4-2-24,
                     4-3-1,
                     4-3-2,
                     4-3-3,
                     4-3-4,
                     4-3-6,
                     4-3-7,
                     4-3-8,
                     4-3-9,
                     4-3-10,
-        10-14-1985  4-3-11,
                     4-4-16,
                     4-3-12,
                     4-3-14,
                     4-3-15,
                     4-3-16,
                     4-3-17,
                     4-3-18,
                     4-3-19,
                     4-3-20,
                     4-3-21,
                     4-3-22,
                     4-3-23,
                     4-3-24,
                     4-3-25,
                     4-3-26,
                     4-3-27,
                     4-3-28,
                     4-3-29,
                     4-3-30,
                     4-3-31,
                     4-3-32,
                     4-3-33,
                     4-4-1,
                     4-4-3,
                     4-4-5,
                     4-4-6,
                     4-4-7,
                     4-4-8,
                     4-4-11,
                     4-4-13,
                     4-4-14,
                     4-4-17,
                     4-4-18,
                     4-4-19,
                     4-4-20
CM-89-30 10-10-1989  9-2-1
CM-90-2  3-13-1990   6-4-17
90-11    6-1990      8-1-7
CM-90-14 7-9-1990    9-2-9
                     4-6-1,
                     4-6-2,
                     4-6-3,
                     4-6-4,
                     4-6-5,
                     4-6-6,
                     4-6-7,
                     4-6-8,
                     4-6-9,
                     4-6-10,
                     4-6-11,
                     4-6-12,
                     4-6-13,
                     4-6-15,
                     4-6-16,
                     4-6-17,
                     4-6-18,
                     4-6-19,
                     4-6-20,
                     4-6-21,
                     4-6-22,
                     4-6-23,
                     4-6-24,
                     4-6-25,
                     4-6-26,
                     4-6-27,
                     4-6-28,
                     4-6-29,
                     4-6-30,
                     4-6-31,
                     4-6-32,
                     4-6-33,
CM-93-34 12-13-1993  4-6-34,
                     4-6-35,
                     4-6-36,
                     4-6-37,
                     4-6-38,
                     4-6-39,
                     4-6-40,
                     4-6-41,
                     4-6-42,
                     4-6-43,
                     4-6-44,
                     4-6-45,
                     4-6-46,
                     4-6-47,
                     4-6-48,
                     4-6-49,
                     4-6-50,
                     4-6-51,
                     4-6-52,
                     4-6-53,
                     4-6-54,
                     4-6-55,
                     4-6-56,
                     4-6-57,
                     4-6-58,
                     4-6-59,
                     4-6-60,
                     4-6-61,
                     4-6-62,
                     4-6-63,
                     4-6-64,
                     4-6-65,
                     4-6-66,
                     4-6-67
94-16    7-12-1994   9-3-6
95-12    7-10-1995   5-3-1
                     5-7-1,
                     5-7-2,
                     5-7-3,
                     5-7-4,
                     5-7-5,
                     5-7-6,
95-15    7-10-1995   5-7-8,
                     5-7-9,
                     5-7-10,
                     5-7-11,
                     5-7-12,
                     5-7-13,
                     5-7-15
CM-42    9-19-1995   9-3-5
96-07    3-11-1996   4-4-15
96-17    8-5-1996    4-3-5
96-20    10-14-1996  9-2-13
97-02    2-10-1997   4-4-9
97-03    2-10-1997   9-2-14
97-06    3-10-1997   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
                     7-1-9,
97-07    3-10-1997   7-5-3,
                     7-1-17,
                     7-7-2
97-26    1-12-1998   4-4-15
98-06    3-9-1998    6-3-21
98-10    5-11-1998   7-1-22
8-17     10-12-1998  6-3-10,
                     6-3-11
                     6-2-1,
                     6-2-2,
                     6-2-3,
                     6-2-4,
                     6-2-5,
                     6-2-6,
                     6-2-7,
                     6-2-8,
                     6-2-9,
                     6-2-10,
                     6-2-11,
                     6-2-12,
98-15    10-12-1998  6-2-13,
                     6-2-14,
                     6-2-15,
                     6-2-16,
                     6-2-17,
                     6-2-18,
                     6-2-19,
                     6-2-20,
                     6-2-21,
                     6-2-22,
                     6-2-23,
                     6-2-24,
                     6-2-25,
                     6-2-26
                     5-8-1,
                     5-8-2,
                     5-8-3,
                     5-8-4,
                     5-8-5,
                     5-8-6,
                     5-8-7,
98-16    10-12-1998  5-8-8,
                     5-8-9,
                     5-8-10,
                     5-8-11,
                     5-8-12,
                     5-8-13,
                     5-8-14,
                     5-8-15,
                     5-8-16
99-01    2-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-02    2-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-03    2-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-05    3-8-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-07    6-14-1999   Appendix, Table II
99-08    7-12-1999   Appendix, Table IV
99-09    7-12-1999   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
99-12    7-12-1999   Appendix, Table II
99-14    8-9-1999    Appendix, Table II
99-15    8-9-1999    5-10-1,
                     5-10-2
                     7-8-1,
                     7-8-2,
99-13    9-13-1999   7-8-3,
                     7-8-4,
                     7-8-5,
                     7-8-6
99-16    9-13-1999   Appendix, Table IV
99-17    9-13-1999   7-1-24
99-18    9-13-1999   Appendix, Table II
99-21    10-11-1999  Appendix, Table II
99-22    10-11-1999  Appendix, Table II
99-23    11-8-1999   7-1-24
99-24    11-8-1999   Appendix, Table III
99-20    12-13-1999  Appendix, Table IV
99-25    1-18-2000   9-3-5
99-26    1-18-2000   4-4-14
00-01    2-14-2000   8-1-22
00-02    3-13-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-03    4-10-2000   Appendix, Table IV
00-04    4-10-2000   4-4-10
00-06    5-8-2000    Appendix, Table II
00-07    5-8-2000    Appendix, Table II
00-08    6-12-2000   Appendix, Table IV
00-09    6-12-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-12    6-12-2000   6-2-26
00-13    7-10-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-14    7-10-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-15    7-10-2000   Appendix, Table II
                     5-4-55,
00-17    7-10-2000   5-4-56,
                     5-4-58,
                     5-4-66
00-16    8-14-2000   Appendix, Table II
00-18    12-11-2000  Appendix, Table II
                     4-7-1,
                     4-7-2,
                     4-7-3,
                     4-7-4,
                     4-7-5,
00-19    12-11-2000  4-7-6,
                     4-7-7,
                     4-7-8,
                     4-7-9,
                     4-7-10,
                     4-7-11
01-01    3-12-2001   Appendix, Table IV
01-08    5-14-2001   Appendix, Table IV
01-09    6-11-2001   Appendix, Table II
01-11    6-21-2001   6-2-26
01-13    9-10-2001   5-5-35
01-14    9-10-2001   Appendix, Table II
01-15    9-10-2001   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
01-16    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-17    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-18    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-19    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table IV
01-20    11-12-2001  5-5-36
01-21    11-12-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-22    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-23    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-24    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-25    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-26    12-10-2001  Appendix, Table II
01-27    12-10-2001  8-1-8
02-01    2-11-2002   Appendix, Table II
02-02    2-11-2002   Appendix, Table II
02-03    2-11-2002   Appendix, Table IV
02-05    4-8-2002    5-5-11,
                     5-5-17
02-06    4-8-2002    5-4-18
02-07    5-13-2002   6-3-1
02-08    6-10-2002   5-5-11,
                     5-5-17
02-09    6-10-2002   5-5-35
02-10    6-10-2002   5-5-36
                     5-4-55,
                     5-4-56,
02-11    6-10-2002   5-4-57,
                     5-4-59,
                     5-4-61,
                     5-4-66
02-13    6-10-2002   Appendix, Table IV
02-15    7-8-2002    Appendix, Table IV
02-16    7-8-2002    Appendix, Table II
02-17    7-8-2002    6-2-26
02-18    10-14-2002  4-4-9
02-19    10-14-2002  4-3-34
02-21    12-9-2002   Appendix, Table I
03-01    2-10-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-02    3-10-2003   4-1-1
03-07    5-12-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-08    5-12-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-09    5-12-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-13    7-14-2003   6-2-26
03-15    7-14-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-16    8-11-2003   Appendix, Table IV
03-17    8-11-2003   Title 4, Chapter 5, Sections Ch. I, II, III, IV
                     7-9-1,
                     7-9-2,
03-18    9-8-2003    7-9-3,
                     7-9-4,
                     7-9-5,
                     7-9-6
03-20    10-13-2003  Appendix, Table IV
03-21    11-10-2003  Appendix, Table II
03-22    12-8-2003   Appendix, Table IV
03-23    12-8-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-24    12-8-2003   Appendix, Table II
03-25    12-8-2003   5-4-70
03-26    1-19-2004   4-4-9
03-27    1-19-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-01    2-16-2004   Appendix, Table II
04-02    3-8-2004    5-4-103
04-05    5-10-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-06    5-10-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-09    6-30-2004   6-2-26
04-11    9-13-2004   7-1-24
04-13    10-11-2004  5-4-27,
                     5-4-61
04-14    10-11-2004  Appendix, Table III
04-16    11-8-2004   Appendix, Table IV
04-17    12-13-2004  Appendix, Table IV
04-18    12-13-2004  Appendix, Table II
04-21    1-17-2005   Appendix, Table II
05-01    2-14-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-02    3-14-2005   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
05-03    3-14-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-04    4-11-2005   5-5-22,
                     5-4-70
05-06    4-11-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-07    5-9-2005    Appendix, Table IV
05-08    6-13-2005   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
05-10    7-11-2005   6-2-26
05-11    9-12-2005   5-4-1-1
05-13    9-12-2005   Appendix, Table IV
05-14    10-10-2005  1-4-10
05-15    10-10-2005  4-1-1
                     13-1-7,
                     13-4-1,
05-16    12-12-2005  13-4-4,
                     13-4-5,
                     13-4-7
06-01    3-13-2006   5-5-17-6
06-02    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-03    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-04    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-05    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-06    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-07    3-13-2006   Appendix, Table II
06-08    5-8-2006    6-4-17
06-09    5-22-2006   Appendix, Table IV
06-10    5-22-2006   Appendix, Table IV
06-11    5-22-2006   Appendix, Table IV
                     5-4-55-5,
                     5-4-56-5,
                     5-4-57-5,
                     5-4-58-2,
                     5-4-59-2,
                     5-4-60-2,
06-12    6-12-2006   5-4-61-2,
                     5-4-63-2,
                     5-4-64-2,
                     5-4-65-12,
                     5-4-66-8,
                     5-4-67-2,
                     5-4-103-2
06-14    6-12-2006   6-2-26
06-16    7-10-2006   5-1-1
                     6-4-23,
                     6-4-24,
                     6-4-25,
                     6-4-26,
06-17    9-11-2006   6-4-27,
                     6-4-28,
                     6-4-29,
                     6-4-30,
                     6-4-31
06-18    10-9-2006   6-2-8,
                     6-2-19
06-19    11-13-2006  5-4-74
06-20    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-21    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-22    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-23    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-24    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table IV
06-25    11-13-2006  Appendix, Table II
07-01    3-12-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-03    3-12-2007   1-4-11
                     6-5-2,
07-04    5-14-2007   6-5-5,
                     6-5-11
                     5-4-103-1,
07-05    4-9-2007    5-4-103-2,
                     5-4-103-4
07-06    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-07    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-08    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-09    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-10    5-14-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-11    6-11-2007   5-4-70
07-13    6-11-2007   6-2-26
07-14    8-13-2007   Appendix, Table IV
                     6-4-9,
07-16    9-10-2007   6-4-10,
                     6-4-20
                     5-4-6,
                     5-4-55-5,
                     5-4-55-6,
                     5-4-55-7,
                     5-4-55-8,
                     5-4-55-9,
                     5-4-55-10,
                     5-4-55-11,
                     5-4-55-12,
                     5-4-55-13,
                     5-4-56-5,
                     5-4-56-7,
                     5-4-56-13,
                     5-4-57-1,
                     5-4-57-5,
                     5-4-57-8,
                     5-4-57-13,
                     5-4-58-2,
07-18    9-10-2007   5-4-59-1,
                     5-4-59-2,
                     5-4-60-2,
                     5-4-61-2,
                     5-4-63-2,
                     5-4-65-12,
                     5-4-66-1,
                     5-4-66-2,
                     5-4-66-8,
                     5-4-66-10,
                     5-4-66-11,
                     5-4-66-16,
                     5-4-66-16,
                     5-4-67-2,
                     5-4-67-4, 5-4-67-6,
                     5-4-74,
                     5-4-77,
                     5-4-103-2,
                     5-4-103-4,
                     5-4-103-9
                     1-4-1,
                     5-1-5,
                     5-1-6,
                     5-1-19,
                     5-1-20,
                     5-1-21,
                     5-1-22,
                     5-1-23,
                     5-1-24,
                     5-1-25,
07-19    9-10-2007   5-1-26,
                     5-1-27,
                     5-1-28,
                     5-1-29,
                     5-1-30,
                     5-1-31,
                     5-1-32,
                     6-3-2,
                     6-3-7,
                     7-1-18,
                     8-1-6
07-20    10-8-2007   Appendix, Table II
07-21    12-10-2007  Appendix, Table II
07-22    11-12-2007  Appendix, Table II
07-23    11-12-2007  Appendix, Table II
07-25    12-10-2007  Appendix, Table II
08-01    2-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-02    2-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-03    2-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-04    3-10-2008   Appendix, Table IV
                     6-5-5,
                     6-5-6,
                     6-5-7,
08-05    5-12-2008   6-5-8,
                     6-5-9,
                     6-5-10,
                     6-5-11
08-06    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table III
08-07    6-9-2008    6-2-26
08-10    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table III
08-11    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
08-12    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
08-13    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
08-14    6-9-2008    Appendix, Table II
                     5-1-16,
                     5-1-17,
08-16    6-9-2008    5-1-18,
                     5-1-20,
                     5-1-27,
                     5-1-28
08-17    7-14-2008   5-10-3
08-18    8-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-19    8-11-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-20    8-11-2008   6-3-12
08-21    7-21-2008   Appendix, Table III
08-22    10-13-2008  Appendix, Table II
08-23    11-10-2008  Appendix, Table II
08-24    11-10-2008  Appendix, Table II
08-25    11-10-2008  Appendix, Table IV
                     5-4-55-7,
08-26    11-10-2008  5-4-56-7,
                     5-4-57-7,
                     5-4-66-10
08-27    11-10-2008  5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
08-28    12-8-2008   Appendix, Table II
08-29    12-8-2008   Appendix, Table II
                     5-1-1,
                     5-1-33,
                     5-1-33.1,
                     5-1-33.2,
                     5-1-33.3,
                     5-1-33.4,
                     5-1-33.5,
                     5-1-33.6,
                     5-1-33.7,
                     5-1-33.8,
08-30    1-12-2009   5-1-33.9,
                     5-1-33.10,
                     5-1-33.11,
                     5-1-33.12,
                     5-1-33.13,
                     5-1-33.14,
                     5-1-33.15,
                     5-1-33.16,
                     5-1-33.17,
                     5-1-33.18,
                     5-1-33.19
09-01    2-9-2009    Appendix, Table II
09-02    4-13-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-03    4-13-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-04    4-13-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-06    5-11-2009   Appendix, Table II
09-07    5-11-2009   5-4-72
09-08    5-11-2009   Appendix, Table IV
09-09    5-11-2009   Appendix, Table IV
                     5-4-56-14,
09-10    6-8-2009    5-4-57-14,
                     5-4-66-17
                     5-4-56-1,
09-11    6-8-2009    5-4-57-1,
                     5-4-66-1
09-12    6-8-2009    Appendix, Table IV
09-13    6-8-2009    Appendix, Table II
                     1-5-60,
                     1-5-61,
09-17    10-12-2009  1-5-62,
                     1-5-63,
                     1-5-64
09-18    10-12-2009  Appendix, Table II
10-01    3-8-2010    5-4-74
10-02    3-8-2010    8-1-21
10-05    5-10-2010   9-3-6
10-06    6-14-2010   Appendix, Table IV
10-08    7-1-2010    6-2-26
10-09    7-1-2010    4-4-4
10-10    9-13-2010   5-4-74,
                     5-4-75
10-11    10-11-2010  Appendix, Table II
                     5-4-55-5,
                     5-4-56-5,
                     5-4-57-5,
                     5-4-58-2,
                     5-4-59-2,
                     5-4-60-2,
10-12    11-8-2010   5-4-61-2,
                     5-4-63-2,
                     5-4-64-2,
                     5-4-65-12,
                     5-4-66-8,
                     5-4-67-2,
                     5-4-103-2
10-13    12-13-2010  9-3-7
10-14    12-13-2010  5-1-23
10-15    1-12-2011   4-4-9
11-01    2-14-2011   5-1-1
11-03    2-14-2011   Appendix, Table IV
11-04    5-9-2011    Appendix, Table IV
11-05    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-06    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-07    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-08    6-13-2011   Appendix, Table II
11-10    8-8-2011    Appendix, Table IV
11-11    7-11-2011   5-4-74
11-12    7-11-2011   5-1-1
11-13    10-10-2011  Appendix, Table II
                     9-5-1,
11-14    10-10-2011  9-5-2,
                     9-5-3
                     9-5-10,
11-15    10-10-2011  9-5-11,
                     9-5-12,
                     9-5-13
                     5-4-58-1,
                     5-4-59-1,
11-16    12-12-2011  5-4-60-1,
                     5-4-63-1,
                     5-4-64-1,
                     5-4-103-1
11-17    12-12-2011  5-4-59-2
11-18    12-12-2011  Appendix, Table II
12-01    3-12-2012   5-4-70
12-02    3-12-2012   Appendix, Table II
12-03    4-19-2012   5-4-74
12-04    4-19-2012   5-4-74
12-05    5-14-2012   Appendix, Table IV
12-07    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-08    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-09    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-10    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-11    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-12    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
12-13    7-9-2012    Appendix, Table II
                     2-2-31,
12-14    10-8-2012   2-2-36,
                     2-2-37
12-15    10-8-2012   9-3-6
12-16    10-8-2012   Appendix, Table II
12-17    10-8-2012   Appendix, Table II
12-18    12-10-2012  Appendix, Table II
                     7-1-2,
12-19    12-10-2012  7-1-23,
                     7-1-28
13-03    7-8-2013    5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
13-04    7-8-2013    Appendix, Table II
13-05    7-8-2013    Appendix, Table II
13-06    7-8-2013    Appendix, Table II
                     5-4-55-7,
                     5-4-56-7,
13-07    10-14-2013  5-4-57-7,
                     5-4-65-14,
                     5-4-66-10,
                     5-4-67-4
13-08    1-13-2014   Appendix, Table II
13-09    1-13-2014   Appendix, Table II
14-01    3-10-2014   5-4-74
14-02    4-14-2014   5-1-33.19
14-03    3-10-2014   Appendix, Table II
14-04    3-10-2014   Appendix, Table II
                     1-5-31 ,
                     1-5-32 ,
14-05    5-12-2014   1-5-33 ,
                     1-5-34 ,
                     1-5-36
14-08    7-14-2014   6-2-26
14-09    12-8-2014   1-2-4
14-10    11-10-14    Appendix, Table IV
                     4-2-15,
                     4-2-16,
                     4-2-17,
                     4-2-18,
14-11    12-8-2014   4-2-19,
                     4-2-20,
                     4-2-21,
                     4-2-23,
                     4-2-24,
                     4-2-25
                     4-6-4 ,
                     4-6-8 ,
                     4-6-13 ,
                     4-6-23 ,
14-12    12-8-2014   4-6-33 ,
                     4-6-35 ,
                     4-6-40 ,
                     4-6-42 ,
                     4-6-46
14-13    1-12-2015   Appendix, Table II
14-14    1-12-2015   Appendix, Table IV
14-15    1-12-2015   Appendix, Table IV
15-03    5-11-2015   Appendix, Table III
15-04    5-11-2015   Appendix, Table IV
15-07    6-29-2015   6-2-26
15-08    6-29-2015   4-4-4
16-01    2-8-2016    4-4-10
16-02    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-03    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-04    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-05    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-06    3-14-2016   Appendix, Table II
16-07    4-11-2016   Appendix, Table IV
16-08    4-11-2016   Appendix, Table IV
16-10    6-30-2016   4-4-4
16-11    6-30-2016   6-2-26
16-12    8-15-2016   5-1-1,
                     5-1-2
16-13    11-14-2016  3-1-11
                     5-4-55-1,
                     5-4-56-1,
16-14    12-12-2016  5-4-57-1,
                     5-4-66-1,
                     5-4-103-1
                     5-4-67,
                     5-4-67-1,
                     5- 4-67-2,
                     5-4-67-3,
                     5-4-67-4,
                     5-4-67-5,
16-15    12-12-2016  5-4-67-6,
                     5-4-67-7,
                     5-4-67-8,
                     5-4-67-9,
                     5-4-67-10,
                     5-4-67-11,
                     Appendix, Table IV
                     9-6-1,
16-16    12-12-2016  9-6-2,
                     9-6-3,
                     9-6-4
17-01    3-13-2017   Appendix, Table II
17-02    3-13-2017   Appendix, Table II
                     1-5-60,
                     1-5-61,
17-03    4-10-2017   1-5-62,
                     1-5-63,
                     1-5-64
17-05    6-12-2017   4-4-4
17-06    6-12-2017   6-2-26
17-07    7-10-2017   5-4-74
17-08    9-18-2017   Appendix, Table IV
17-09    10-9-2017   5-4-70
17-10    10-9-2017   Appendix, Table II
18-01    5-14-2018   Appendix, Table IV
18-02    5-14-2018   5-4-70
18-03    5-14-2018   3-1-9,
                     3-1-11
18-04    6-11-2018   Appendix, Table II
18-05    6-11-2018   Appendix, Table II
                     5-6-1,
                     5-6-2,
                     5-6-3,
                     5-6-4,
                     5-6-5,
                     5-6-6,
                     5-6-7,
                     5-6-8,
                     5-6-9,
                     5-6-10,
                     5-6-15,
                     5-6-20,
                     5-6-21,
                     5-6-22,
                     5-6-23,
                     5-6-24,
18-06    6-11-2018   5-6-30,
                     5-6-31,
                     5-6-32,
                     5-6-33,
                     5-6-34,
                     5-6-35,
                     5-6-40,
                     5-6-41,
                     5-6-42,
                     5-6-43,
                     5-6-44,
                     5-6-45,
                     5-6-46,
                     5-6-47,
                     5-6-48,
                     5-6-50,
                     5-6-51,
                     5-6-52
18-07    6-11-2018   6-3-1
18-09    6-11-2018   6-2-26
                     3-3-1,
                     3-3-2,
                     3-3-3,
18-10    6-11-2018   3-3-4,
                     3-3-5,
                     3-3-6,
                     3-3-7,
                     3-3-8
18-11    6-11-2018   6-4-7
18-12    7-9-2018    4-4-4
18-13    10-8-2018   6-4-8
18-14    10-8-2018   1-4-11
18-15    12-10-2018  Appendix, Table III
19-02    7-1-2019    Appendix, Table II
19-03    7-1-2019    6-2-26
19-04    7-1-2019    4-4-4
19-05    9-9-2019    Appendix, Table IV
19-06    12-9-2019   1-5-75
19-12    12-9-2019   Appendix, Table IV
20-01    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-02    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-03    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-04    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-05    3-9-2020    Appendix, Table II
20-06    3-9-2020    5-1-1
20-11    8-10-2020   Appendix, Table IV
20-12    8-10-2020   Appendix, Table IV
20-13    9-21-2020   5-4-59
20-14    10-12-2020  Appendix, Table IV
21-01    2-8-2021    Appendix, Table II
21-02    2-8-2021    Appendix, Table II
21-03    3-8-2021    Appendix, Table II
21-04    4-12-2021   5-1-33.19
                     4-6-5,
21-05    4-12-2021   4-6-14,
                     4-6-47
21-06    4-12-2021   4-2-22
21-09    6-28-2021   4-4-4
21-10    6-28-2021   6-2-26
21-11    9-13-2021   Appendix, Table II
21-12    9-13-2021   Appendix, Table II
21-13    9-13-2021   Appendix, Table III
21-14    10-11-2021  Appendix, Table II
                     7-1-1,
                     7-1-2,
                     7-1-3,
                     7-1-4,
                     7-1-5,
                     7-1-6,
                     7-1-7,
                     7-1-8,
                     7-1-9,
                     7-1-10,
21-15    12-13-2021  7-1-11,
                     7-1-12,
                     7-1-13,
                     7-1-14,
                     7-1-15,
                     7-1-16,
                     7-1-17,
                     7-1-18,
                     7-1-19,
                     7-1-20,
                     7-1-21
21-17    12-13-2021  Appendix, Table II
22-03    5-9-2022    5-1-34
22-04    5-9-2022    6-5-3
22-06    6-30-2022   6-2-26
22-08    10-10-2022  1-7-5
22-09    10-10-2022  Appendix, Table II
23-01    3-13-2023   5-1-1
23-03    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-04    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-05    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-06    4-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-07    5-8-2023    Appendix, Table III
23-08    5-8-2023    Appendix, Table II
23-09    5-8-2023    5-4-58-1
23-11    6-26-2023   6-2-26
23-12    6-26-2023   4-4-4
23-13    7-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-14    7-10-2023   Appendix, Table II
                     1-5-32,
23-15    9-11-2023   1-5-33,
                     1-5-34
23-17    10-9-2023   Appendix, Table II
23-18    10-9-2023   Appendix, Table IV
23-19    11-13-2023  9-6-1
23-20    11-13-2023  Appendix, Table II
23-21    12-11-2023  6-4-18
24-01    2-12-2024   6-4-14
24-02    3-11-2024   Appendix, Table IV
24-03    3-11-2024   Appendix, Table IV
24-04    4-8-2024    Appendix, Table II
24-05    4-8-2024    Appendix, Table II
24-07    6-3-2024    Appendix, Table IV
24-08    6-3-2024    Appendix, Table IV
24-10    6-24-2024   4-4-4
24-11    6-24-2024   6-2-26
                     5-4-55-7,
24-12    8-12-2024   5-4-56-7,
                     5-4-57-7,
                     5-4-66-10
24-13    8-12-2024   Appendix, Table IV
24-14    9-9-2024    5-1-33.19
24-15    9-9-2024    5-1-1
25-01    2-10-2025   1-4-23
                     1-5-32,
25-02    6-9-2025    1-5-33,
                     1-5-34
25-04    6-9-2025    4-4-4
25-05    6-9-2025    6-2-26
                    
 
