Folly Beach, South Carolina
Code of Ordinances
2025 S-39 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 014-25, passed 9-8-25
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor                                                  Tim Goodwin
City Council Members
Chris Bizzell                                          William Farley
Billy Grooms                                           Katherine Houghton Ed. D
Skip Fink                                              D.J. Rich
                                                       
City Administrator                                     Aaron Pope
City Attorney                                          Joseph C. Wilson, IV
Municipal Clerk                                        Wes Graham
Chief Municipal Judge                                  Christopher Skipper
Associate Municipal Judge                              Burns Wetmore
Clerk of Court                                         Anita Praytor
Environmental Land Use Planner and Zoning Director     Jenna Stephens
Director of Public Works, Facilities/Building Services Eric Lutz
Utilities Director                                     Kyle Sullivan
Public Safety Director                                 Andrew Gilreath
Director of Finance                                    Lee E. Gessner, IV
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 24-01
               AS AMENDED
                  Introduced by:   Mayor Knox
                  Date:       November 27, 2001
1st Reading 12-11-01
2nd Reading 1-8-02
3rd Reading 1-8-02
      AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF FOLLY BEACH,
SOUTH CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF FOLLY BEACH DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN
SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS,   the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Folly
Beach are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace; health, safety,
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
WHEREAS,   the Acts of the South Carolina Legislature empower and authorize the
City of Folly Beach to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile any existing
ordinances and all new ordinances heretofore adopted but not published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS,    it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of Folly Beach, duly assembled, hereby ordains
as follows:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Folly Beach as revised,
amended, restate, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and
shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances" of the City of Folly Beach, South
Carolina.
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
      11.   City Seal
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.    Form of Government
      31.    City Government
      32.    City Officials
      33.    Boards, Commissions and Departments
      34.    Municipal Court
      35.    Emergency Management
      36.    Finances
      37.    Personnel
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.    Garbage
      51.    Public Utilities
      52.    Sewers
      53.    Storm Water Management
      54.    Water
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.    General Provisions
      71.    Traffic Rules
      72.    Parking Regulations
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.    Fire Prevention and Protection
      91.    Streets and Sidewalks
      92.    Parks
      93.    Trees and Shrubs
      94.    Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
      95.    Animals
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.    General Licensing Provisions
      111.    Alcoholic Beverages
      112.    Clubs
      113.    Hotels and Motels
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.    General Provisions
      131.    Offenses Against Public Peace
      132.    Offenses Against Property
      133.    Offenses Against Public Morals
      134.    Offenses Against Public Welfare
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.    Building Regulations
      151.    Beach Preservation and Construction Provisions
      152.    Flood Damage Prevention
      153.    Land Development; Subdivisions
      154.    Zoning
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      I.    Annexations
      II.    Easements; Relocations
      III.    Expansions; Improvements
      IV.    Designated N-1 Properties
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed, or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
any zoning ordinance of the city or amendments thereto, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; any ordinance fixing
utility rates and charges, nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of
a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or
covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Whenever in the Code an act is prohibited, or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor by the council, or whenever in
the Code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful by the Council, and no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any provisions of the code shall be punished by a
fine not more than $500, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days, as
provided in Section 10.99.
Section 5.   In case of the amendment by the Council of any section of the code
for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in Section
10.99 of the Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case the
amendment contains provisions for which a penalty is provided in another
section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in the other section shall
be held to relate to the section so amended, unless the penalty is specifically
repealed therein.
Section 6.     This Code shall be deemed published as of the day of the
adoption and shall be in full force and effect.
Section 7.   A copy of the code shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk, preserved in loose-leaf form, or in some other form, as the clerk may
consider expedient. It shall be the express duty of the Clerk, or someone
authorized by the Clerk to insert in their designated places, all amendments,
ordinances or resolutions which indicate the intention of the Council to make
the same a part of the Code when the same have been printed or reprinted in
page form, and to extract from the Code all provisions which may be repealed
from time to time by the Council. This copy of the Code shall be available for
all persons dealing desiring to examine it.
Section 8.   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or alter by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of the code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner
whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented thereby.
Any person violating this section shall be punishable as provided in Section
10.99 of the Code of the City of Folly Beach and in Section 4 of this
ordinance. This ordinance shall become effective on the date of adoption.
   ADOPTED this                   day of                               , 2001.
            Vernon Knox \s\
            Vernon Knox, Mayor
ATTEST:
Marlene B. Estridge \s\     
City Clerk
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSTAIN:
                                 
Council Member Benson             Council Member Theiling
                                 
Council Member Lennon             Council Member Rhodes
                                 
Council Member Klauber             Council Member Winschen
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
   
11.   CITY SEAL
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short title
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of construction
   
10.07   Construction of revised ordinances
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Severability
   
10.10   Reference to other sections
   
10.11   Reference to offices
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Official time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Ordinances saved
   
10.17   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.18   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.19   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.20   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.21   Violations of rules, regulations and orders
   
10.22   Liability of corporations and agents for violations
 
   
10.98   Ordinance summons
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the Folly
Beach Code of Ordinances, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code”
may be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute
any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpreta-tion of this code as those governing the interpretation of state
law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY. The City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the city.
   GOVERNOR. The Governor of South Carolina.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   OATH. Includes affirmation and SWEAR includes AFFIRM.
   OFFICERS OF CITY and OFFICIALS OF CITY. The officials, boards, commissions
and depart- ments of the city.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of the property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidence of debt.
(S.C. Code § 15-1-40)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
(S.C. Code § 15-1-50)
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the city, state or federal
government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
(S.C. Code § 15-1-30)
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes CERTIFIED MAIL, and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
REGISTERED MAIL.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   S.C. CODE. The Code of Laws of South Carolina.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb, and the adjacent property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial, partners, principals,
agents and employees, and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing and any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures. When the written signature of any person is
required, it shall be in the proper handwriting of the person, or in case he or
she is unable to write, his or her proper mark.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
§ 10.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed
according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have
acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   Number, gender and tense. As used in the code, unless the context
otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by the state
rules of civil procedure, by order of court or by any applicable statute, the
day of the act, event or default after which the designated period of time
begins to run is not to be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or a state
or federal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next
day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday nor a holiday. When the period of time
prescribed or allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays shall be excluded in the computation. A half holiday shall be
considered as another day and not as a holiday.
      (2)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean the time as only may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more city officers or to other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it is
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority or inconsistent
with state statute or other provisions.
   (F)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.07 CONSTRUCTION OF REVISED ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are consistent with any prior
ordinances, shall be construed as continuations of the prior provisions and not
as new enactments.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.13 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain public officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.17 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.18 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
§ 10.19 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until the legislative body of the municipality shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add or repeal a chapter, section or division:
      (1)   Section amended. “Section       of the Folly Beach Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows: . . . .”
      (2)   Section added. “Section       , which reads as follows, is added to
and amends the Folly Beach Code of Ordinances: . . . .”
      (3)   Section repealed. “Section       of the Folly Beach Code of
Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: . . . .”
§ 10.20 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (S.C. Code § 16-11-700) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, S.C. Code §§ 30-1-10 et seq.
§ 10.21 VIOLATIONS OF RULES, REGULATIONS AND ORDERS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, the violation of any rules,
regulations or orders promulgated by any officer or agency of the municipality
under authority vested in him, her or it by law, by the provisions of this code
or by any ordinance or resolution, shall be unlawful.
§ 10.22 LIABILITY OF CORPORATIONS AND AGENTS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment
shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for, or employed by, any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or
order of any person.
§ 10.98 ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   Any person or entity violating any provision of this code of ordinances, or
any code adopted pursuant thereto, within the corporate limits of the City of
Folly Beach, may be issued a uniform ordinance summons. Issuance of the uniform
ordinance summons shall vest jurisdiction in the municipal court to hear and
dispose of the charge for which the uniform ordinance summons is issued and
served. The uniform ordinance summons may be issued by any enforcement officer
authorized by state law or any other city employees designated by the Council
as code enforcement officers. The bond amount for violation shall be prescribed
by the chief municipal court judge. Code enforcement officers are prohibited
from accepting bonds. Bonds are to be posted in the manner prescribed in the
uniform ordinance summons. The uniform ordinance summons shall not be used to
perform a custodial arrest.
   This section does not apply to any ordinance which regulates the use of
motor vehicles on the public roads.
(Ord. 14-20, passed 9-8-20)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this
code of ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise
provided, the offender shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days. However, no penalty shall exceed the penalty provided by
state law for similar offenses. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (A) above, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this code shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the
municipality as provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty under state law, S.C. Code § 5-7-30
CHAPTER 11: CITY SEAL
Section
   
11.01   City seal
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   The official seal of the city shall consist of a representation of a sand
dollar on a field of blue, surrounded by two concentric gold circles. Between
the inner and outer gold circles shall appear the lettering “City of Folly
Beach, S.C.” superimposed on the sand dollar and it shall be crossed by sea
oats, gold in color. This seal may be reproduced on city equipment, buildings
and uniforms, and may be used in another manner as is authorized by the City
Council. For purposes of affixing the city seal to various official documents
and ordinances, the City Clerk, in lieu of using the above, may use a standard
embossing seal with only the words “City of Folly Beach, S.C.” and the word
“seal” across its face.
(`95 Code, § 1-1-2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
      
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      
31.   CITY GOVERNMENT
      
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
34.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
36.   FINANCES
      
37.   PERSONNEL
      
38.   HOSPITALITY TAX
      
39.   FAIRNESS IN LODGING ACT
      
40.   DUTIES AND POWERS OF CODE OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The present governing body of the city shall be that of the Mayor-Council
form of government, with the Mayor and six Council members. All members shall
be elected at large, as provided in S.C. Code §§ 5-9-10 through 5-9-30, as
amended.
(`95 Code, § 1-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Selection of government, S.C. Code §§ 5-5-10 et seq.
CHAPTER 31: CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Election of governing body
   
31.02   Inauguration; tenure and compensation; payment
   
31.03   Oath of office
   
31.04   Qualifications; residency
   
31.05   Powers and duties; enumeration
Rules of Procedure
   
31.15   Parliamentary authority
   
31.16   Agenda
   
31.17   Ordinances
   
31.18   Resolutions
   
31.19   Quorum
   
31.20   Council member attendance
   
31.21   Meetings
   
31.22   Executive sessions
   
31.23   Special meetings
   
31.24   Emergency meetings; justification
   
31.25   Work sessions
   
31.26   Public notice; media notice
   
31.27   Minutes
   
31.28   Speaking; recognition; germaine; interruption; limitation
   
31.29   Voting requirements
   
31.30   Motions
Election Procedure
   
31.40   Terms of office
   
31.41   Method of election
   
31.42   Nonpartisan elections; procedure
   
31.43   Filing fees
   
31.44   Times of elections
Cross-reference:
   City Officials, see
Chapter 32
Statutory reference:
   Methods of election, S.C. Code § 5-15-20
   Terms of office, S.C. Code § 5-15-40
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTION OF GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and Council members of the city shall be elected for
terms of four years.
      (2)   A general election for City Council shall be held every two years
to fill those offices available at that time.
   (B)   It is the intent and purpose of this section that the terms of Council
members be staggered so that not more than one-half of the Council and Mayor
shall be elected in the same general election.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 31.02 INAUGURATION; TENURE AND COMPENSATION; PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and Council members shall take office no less than 48
hours nor more than five days following certification of their election, as
provided by law. They shall remain in office for the term provided by law and
until their successors are elected and qualify. The Mayor and Council members
shall receive as compensation an amount as shall be set by the City Council in
accordance with state law.
      (2)   An ordinance establishing or increasing Council salaries does not
go into effect until the starting date of the terms of two or more members
elected at the election following the ordinance's adoption. At that time, the
salary becomes effective for all Council members.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-2) (Am. Ord. 06-98, passed 3-17-98)
   (B)   The annual salary of the Mayor is $15,000; the annual salary of each
City Council person is $4,800. Payment of the salaries may be made on a
monthly, quarterly or annual basis as requested by the Mayor and Council
members individually.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-3) (Ord. 04-98, passed - -98; Am. Ord. 04-16, passed 3-8-16)
§ 31.03 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, members
of the Council, officers of the city and members of commissions and committees
as may be designated shall take the following oath:
“I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified according to the
Constitution of this state to exercise the duties of the office to which I have
been elected (or appointed) and that I will, to the best of my ability,
discharge the duties thereof, and defend the constitution of this state and the
United States, so help me God. As (name of office) of the city, I will equally,
fairly and impartially, to the best of my ability and skill, exercise the trust
reposed in me, and I will use my best endeavors to preserve the peace and carry
into effect according to law, the purpose for which I have been elected.”
   (B)   The oath for appointed officials shall be administered by the Mayor,
one of the Council members, or a notary public no sooner than 48 hours after
the time of appointment. After the oath of office is given, a certificate of
appointment shall be signed by the appointed official, acknowledged by
signature of the Mayor with a copy being filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   After the certification of the election results, the oath of office
shall be administered to all elected officials no sooner than 48 hours after
said certification. The oath shall be administered by the Mayor, on of the
Council members, or a notary public.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-4) (Ord. 21-03, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 10-16, passed 5-10-
16)
 § 31.04 QUALIFICATIONS; RESIDENCY.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and Council members shall be qualified electors of the
city, and except where authorized by law, no Mayor or Council person shall hold
any other municipal office or municipal employment while serving the term for
which he or she was elected.
      (2)   If any Council member or the Mayor shall cease to possess these
qualifications or those required by law, the City Council may institute
proceedings to vacate his or her office.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-5)
   (B)   (1)   Elected officials shall be permanent residents of the city.
      (2)    Any elected official may charge any other elected official with a
violation of this section.
      (3)   In the event that a charge is brought, a hearing will be held on
ten days' notice to the charged official. At the hearing, the Mayor will
preside unless he or she is the charged official; in that event, the Mayor Pro-
Tem will preside. A two-thirds vote by the Mayor and Council will be necessary
to remove an official under this section with the charged official not voting.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-6) (Ord. 78-5, passed 4-4-78)
Statutory reference:
   Council as judge of election and qualification of members, S.C. Code § 5-7-
210
§ 31.05 POWERS AND DUTIES; ENUMERATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and Council members shall be vested with all powers
conferred upon them by state law.
      (2)   All legislative powers of the city and the determination of all
matters of policy shall be vested in the City Council.
      (3)   Each member shall be responsible for the proper performance of his
or her duties as required by state law and this code.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-7)
   (B)   Without limiting the powers and duties mentioned in division (A)
above, the City Council shall have power to: enact ordinances of every kind and
nature not prohibited by the statute law or Constitution of the state or of the
United States; adopt the annual budget; authorize the issuance of notes and
bonds; provide for the general health, safety and welfare of the city and its
inhabitants through the general police powers granted to municipalities; adopt
plats; appoint special and standing committees of Council; adopt and modify the
official map of the municipality; appoint boards, commissions and committees
for purposes as Council may desire; and perform any other duties which are not
prohibited by law and which, in the sole discretion of City Council are
necessary and proper.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-8)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.15 PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY.
   The current edition of Roberts Rules of Order Newly Revised shall govern all
proceedings except as provided by law or this subchapter. The City Attorney
shall act as parliamentarian. Questions of order shall be decided by the Mayor
without debate, subject to appeal to the Council.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08; Am. Ord. 23-13, passed 10-22-13)
§ 31.16 AGENDA.
   (A)   All requests for official action of the City Council shall be
submitted to the City Administrator by 4:30 p.m. on the Tuesday prior to the
scheduled Council meeting to be held the following Tuesday. Neither public
appearances nor any other matters shall be placed on an agenda for a Council
meeting unless they are accompanied by sufficient information or documentation
to inform members of Council and members of the public of the substance of the
matters and the nature of official action being requested of the City Council.
This requirement does not apply to citizens comments. No additions to the
agenda will be accepted after the stated time, except as follows:
      (1)   Any matter considered to be an emergency, as determined by the City
Administrator or the Mayor; or
      (2)   Any matter whereby time is of the essence and by not allowing it to
be added would put the city in jeopardy of missing a deadline or cause the city
to incur additional expenses or penalties.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall be responsible for submitting all
ordinances to the City Attorney for review no later than Wednesday of the same
week. The agenda shall then be prepared and made available to Council members
not less than 48 hours prior to the meeting. Nothing shall be brought up in
meetings of the City Council that is not on the official agenda.
   (C)   Any person may raise any matter by a written communication and request
to the Mayor, a member of Council, or City Administrator to have the matter be
placed on an agenda for a Council meeting for which the agenda has not been
closed.
   (D)   The Mayor shall review each proposed agenda item and decide at which
meeting the matter shall be considered by Council, based on the following
conditions:
      (1)   The extent to which the current agenda already has a substantial
number of matters to be considered;
      (2)   Whether the submittal is an ordinance and the ordinance is either
incomplete or is in conflict with an ordinance currently on the agenda; and
      (3)   Whether a work session would be beneficial to discuss the matter
and receive input from other members of Council.
   (E)   Any ordinance or resolution sponsored by three or more Council members
shall be placed on the agenda for the next Council meeting for which the agenda
has not been closed.
   (F)   A Council member’s submittal shall be placed on an agenda for
consideration at a regular Council meeting within 90 days from the date it is
first submitted.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08; Am. Ord. 23-13, passed 10-22-13)
§ 31.17 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An ordinance or ordinance amendments may be proposed by any member of
Council. The City Administrator shall render assistance in the preparation of
ordinances upon request of members of Council. Any member of Council submitting
a request for the preparation of an ordinance shall submit the following in
writing to the City Administrator:
      (1)   Statement of Purpose, which contains:
         (a)   What? The subject of the ordinance.
         (b)   Why? The intent of the ordinance.
         (c)   Who? Enforcement responsibil- ities.
         (d)   When?  The effective date.
         (e)   Where?  Area affected.
         (f)   Impact? Ordinance shall be staffed through the City
Administrator to determine the impact, if known, to city revenues, expenditures
and/or personnel.
   (B)    After the ordinance is in proper form, it shall be submitted to the
City Attorney for review.
   (C)   An ordinance is considered to be introduced when it appears on an
agenda, or is added to an agenda, for a public meeting of Council and its title
is read.
   (D)   The enacting clause of all ordinances and ordinance amendments shall
be "The City Council of Folly Beach, duly assembled, hereby ordains..."
   (E)   All ordinances or amendments thereto shall receive two readings prior
to adoption. There shall be at least six days between first and final reading
of any ordinance. Any proposed amendments or changes to an ordinance under
consideration shall be made on the first reading of the ordinance or amendment.
   (F)   To meet public emergencies affecting life, health, safety or the
property of the people, Council may adopt emergency ordinances, but ordinances
shall not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise or impose or change a
service rate. Every emergency ordinance shall be enacted by the affirmative
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Council present. An emergency
ordinance is effective immediately upon its enactment without regard to any
reading, public hearing, publication requirements or public notice
requirements. Emergency ordinances shall expire automatically as of the sixty-
first day following the date of enactment.
   (G)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance shall be the reading of
the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of Council.
   (H)   After the introduction of an ordinance, a member of Council may
request a public hearing which may be held if approved by a majority of Council
present and set for a time prior to final adoption of the ordinance. A public
hearing may be held on the same date as the final reading.
   (I)   An ordinance may be amended on final reading if the original intent of
the ordinance is not changed nor significantly altered.
   (J)   New ordinances shall be posted on the city website until published in
the Folly Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (K)   Upon final adoption by vote of Council, an ordinance shall be signed
by the Mayor or presiding member of Council and attested by the Municipal
Clerk, who shall file the original with the minutes in the permanent public
records.
   (L)   The Municipal Clerk shall send all ordinances, which are required to
be published in the Folly Beach Code of Ordinances, to the publishing company
to be codified on a quarterly basis. Copies of all ordinances shall be
available for public inspection and purchase at a reasonable cost.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08; Am. Ord. 11-15, passed 4-26-11; Am. Ord. 27-14,
passed 1-13-15)
§ 31.18 RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Resolutions may be proposed by any member of Council. The City
Administrator shall render assistance in the preparation of resolutions upon
request of members of Council.
   (B)   Written resolutions may be adopted on one reading unless a public
hearing is set by a majority vote of Council members present.
   (C)   A voice motion is considered to be the introduction of an oral
resolution which requires no written record other than a notation in the
minutes of the meeting.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.19 QUORUM.
   Four members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum. No motion may be
officially decided in the affirmative except upon the favorable vote of the
majority of those voting. A member present but disqualified from voting on a
question by state law due to a conflict of interest shall be counted for
purposes of a quorum.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.20 COUNCIL MEMBER ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   All members of City Council, including the Mayor, are expected to
attend and participate in all regular Council meetings, all special or extra
meetings, and work sessions when proper notice has been given.
   (B)   The minutes shall show the members in attendance at each meeting and
the reason for absence submitted by a member not in attendance.
   (C)   Mayor or City Council may recommend to the Council the removal for
cause of any member who is absent from three consecutive meetings and/or work
sessions, without adequate reason, such as extended illness, military duty,
conflicting public service obligations, immediate family illness, or any other
reason Council, in its discretion deems reasonable.
   (D)   After consideration of the reason or reasons given, the majority of
Council may, in its discretion, request the Governor to remove the member.
   (E)   No proxy, mail, telephonic, facsimile, electronic or absentee vote may
be cast.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public and may
be continued to another time and location.
   (B)   All meetings of Council shall be held in Folly Beach City Council
Chambers located at 21 Center Street unless a change of location is posted at
least 24 hours in advance.
   (C)    Regular meetings shall be held at 7:00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of
each month.
   (D)   Work sessions or presentations to City Council shall be held as
needed, or as decided by the Mayor and at other dates and times at the
discretion of the Mayor or three members of Council. Citizens’ comments,
limited to three minutes, may be allowed at all work sessions.
   (E)   At every regular meeting of the City Council the order of business
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call to Order/Roll Call
      (2)   Invocation/Pledge of Allegiance
      (3)   Mayor’s Comments
      (4)   Staff Reports
      (5)   Approval of Agenda (and/or additions to the agenda)
      (6)   Approval of Previous Minutes
      (7)   Personal Appearances (limited to five minutes)
      (8)   Citizen’s Comments (limited to three minutes)
      (9)   Commission, Board, Committee Report
      (10)   Unfinished Business
      (11)   New Business
      (12)   City Council Comments
      (13)   Adjournment
   (F)   Any subject may, by motion of Council or direction of Mayor, be made a
special order of business for a future day or future time, and when the time
fixed for its consideration arrives, the Mayor shall lay it before Council.
   (G)   All regular meetings, special meetings, and work sessions shall be
televised and recorded.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08; Am. Ord. 01-11, passed 2-8-11; Am. Ord. 27-14,
passed 1-13-15)
§ 31.22 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   By majority vote in a public meeting, Council may hold an executive
session as permitted by the South Carolina Freedom of Information Act, S.C.
Code § 30-4-70. The reason for the executive session shall be stated.
   (B)   No vote or formal action shall be taken in executive session except to
adjourn or return to public session.
   (C)   Minutes of executive sessions shall not be taken unless required by
majority vote of Council. Minutes of executive sessions shall not be public
records.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a member of Council or person in attendance
to disclose to another person or make public the substance of a matter
discussed in executive sessions.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.23 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or
four members of Council. Notice of such meeting shall be given each member of
the City Council and the Mayor at least 24 hours before the time of holding
such special meeting.
   (B)   The place of all special meetings shall be at the regular meeting
place or at such other place agreeable to a majority of the City Council as
determined by the City Administrator or Clerk of Council.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.24 EMERGENCY MEETINGS; JUSTIFICATION.
   The City Council may meet upon shorter notice than 24 hours at any place, by
unanimous consent of all of its members present, recorded in the record of such
meetings, provided the City Council unanimously finds and so votes at such
meetings that there is an emergency justifying such meeting and the public
interest so requires.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.25 WORK SESSIONS.
   The City Council may hold informal work sessions to discuss matters of
interest to the City Council, to receive informal reports and to discuss
matters to be considered at regular or special meetings. Minutes need not be
kept at work sessions; however, all work sessions shall be recorded. Work
sessions may be held jointly with city boards and commissions, and with other
public bodies. Public notice of work sessions and committee meetings shall be
given and the public is entitled to attend work sessions and committee
meetings. No final official action shall be taken at any work session or
committee meeting, but the City Council may hold a special meeting before,
during or after a work session or committee meeting as provided in §§
31.23 and
31.24. Citizens’ comments shall be part of the work session agenda with said
comments taken at the appropriate time.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.26 PUBLIC NOTICE; MEDIA NOTICE.
   (A)   Prior to any regular meeting, special meeting, emergency meeting or
work session of City Council, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the media of the
place, time, date and subject of the meeting. All minutes of meetings shall
reflect that the media was notified.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give notice to the public of all regular
meetings, special meetings, emergency meetings, and work sessions of City
Council by posting notice of the meetings on the bulletin board located in City
Hall at 21 Center Street at least 24 hours prior to the meetings or work
sessions. Notice of meetings or work sessions shall state the date, time,
place, and subject of the meeting.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.27 MINUTES.
   The Municipal Clerk shall ensure the official minutes of all regular,
special and emergency Council meetings are recorded and following their
approval by Council, the minutes shall become an official permanent and public
record. They shall be open to inspection during normal office hours in the
Office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.28 SPEAKING; RECOGNITION; GERMAINE; INTERRUPTION; LIMITATION.
   (A)   A member about to speak shall respectfully address the chair, and
shall not commence to speak until recognized by the Mayor or presiding officer,
whichever the case may be. When two or more members request to speak at the
same time, the Mayor or presiding officer shall determine which one is
recognized.
   (B)   Every member of Council, when about to speak, shall address the chair
as "Mr., Mrs. or Ms. Mayor" or "Mr., Mrs. or Ms. Chairperson," as the case may
be, and shall not speak until recognized by the chair. Council members shall
conduct themselves with decorum, shall refrain from personalities, and shall
avoid any disrespect to other members of Council.
   (C)   Every member while speaking shall confine himself to the subject under
debate.
   (D)   Unless a member who has the floor yields for that purpose, no member
shall interrupt another while speaking, except to propound a parliamentary
inquiry or make a point of order.
   (E)   No member shall speak more than twice or for more than ten minutes
continuously to any one question, except that one or more additional periods of
ten minutes may be granted by unanimous consent. The reading of papers desired
by any member shall be read by himself/herself or by the Municipal Clerk within
the member's time limitation unless permission for the Municipal Clerk to read
such paper outside the time limitation is unanimously granted.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.29 VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall declare all votes; but if any member doubts a vote,
the Mayor, without further debate upon the question, shall request the members
voting in the affirmative and negative, respectively, to so indicate, and he
shall declare the result.
   (B)   The "ayes" and "nays" on any question before the Council shall be
recorded in the minutes. Any member of Council may be allowed up to five
minutes to explain his or her vote and may have his or her reasons for the vote
recorded in the minutes. No Council member shall vote on a question of a
private nature in which he or she has a personal or pecuniary interest.
   (C)   Votes on motions to approve minutes, consent agenda, agenda, or
adjourn may be taken without a roll call and the Mayor may put the question in
the following form: "Without objection, it will be so ordered." If no objection
is heard, it will be so ordered and have the same effect as if it had been
favorably voted upon. If there is an objection, then the roll will be called.
   (D)   Every member of Council present, including the Mayor, shall vote on
every question except when required to recuse himself or herself from voting by
state law.
   (E)   If a member of Council temporarily leaves a meeting and a vote is
taken in said member's absence, the vote shall be recorded as if the member
voted in the affirmative.
   (F)   The vote on every question shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (G)   No proxy, mail, telephonic, facsimile, electronic or absentee vote may
be cast.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
§ 31.30 MOTIONS.
   (A)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to
amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
   (B)   No appeal from any decision of the presiding officer shall be
entertained unless it is seconded, and no other business shall be in order
until the question on appeal has been decided. The question on the appeal is
not debatable and shall be put as follows: "Shall the decision of the chair
stand as the judgment of the City Council?" It shall be deemed to be decided in
the affirmative unless a majority of the votes given are to the contrary.
   (C)   Any member may make a parliamentary inquiry of the Mayor at any time
during the meeting.
   (D)   Any member may make a point of order without a second at any time. The
presiding officer may speak to points of order in preference to other members
and shall decide all such questions, subject to appeal to the City Council by
motion duly seconded, and no other business shall be in order until the
question on the appeal has been decided.
   (E)   A motion to "Call the Question" or "Close Debate" can be made by any
Council member who desires that a question under debate be at once voted on.
This motion is not in order when someone else has the floor. When the motion
has been made and seconded, all debate on the main question shall be suspended
immediately. The Mayor shall then put the question in the following form: "A
motion has been made and seconded to "Call the Question" (Close Debate)." If
two-thirds of Council votes in the affirmative, then the main motion is brought
to the floor, restated by the Mayor and voted on.
   (F)   Votes on motions to approve minutes, consent agenda, agenda, or
adjourn may be taken without a roll call and the Mayor may put the question in
the following form, "Without objection, it will be so ordered." If no objection
is heard it will be so ordered and have the same effect as if it had been
favorably voted upon. If there is an objection, then the roll will be called.
   (G)   The presiding officer shall put all questions in the order in which
they are moved unless a subsequent motion shall be previous in its nature.
   (H)   Except as otherwise provided, no resolution or ordinance shall be
reconsidered on the day upon which the final vote was taken. A member who voted
on the prevailing side may:
      (1)   On the day upon which final vote was taken, give and have entered
in the minutes a notice of intention to move a reconsideration at the next City
Council meeting.
      (2)   On the day immediately following the vote on a resolution or
ordinance, give the Municipal Clerk written notice of reconsideration. When
such notice is given, any member may at the next City Council meeting move a
reconsideration of the question. The affirmative votes of four members of the
City Council may order a reconsideration taken up at the same meeting that
notice of reconsideration is given. The motion for reconsideration opens for
debate, and the question to be considered shall have precedence over every
other motion except the motion to adjourn. When a motion is reconsidered, that
vote is canceled as though it had never been taken. When a majority votes to
reconsider, the question immediately recurs upon the question reconsidered.
There shall be only one reconsideration, even though the action of the City
Council after reconsideration is opposite the action of the City Council before
reconsideration.
      (3)   After a notice of reconsideration, a special meeting is scheduled
within ten days to address that reconsideration.
   (I)   Any previous vote may be rescinded by vote of four members of the City
Council at any time provided the subject matter has not passed out of the
control of the City Council.
   (J)   All motions shall require a second, unless otherwise provided.
   (K)   Any member may require the division of a question, when the sense of
it will admit.
   (L)   When a question is under debate, the presiding officer shall receive
any of the following motions but no other:
      (1)   To adjourn.
      (2)   To recess.
      (3)   To raise a question of privilege.
      (4)   To call for the order of the day, or the regular order.
      (5)   To lay on the table.
      (6)   To call the question.
      (7)   To limit or extend limits of debate.
      (8)   To postpone to a certain time.
      (9)   To refer.
      (10)   To amend.
      (11)   To postpone indefinitely.
When one of the motions referred to in divisions (L)(1)-(11) has been made,
none of the others inferior to it in the order in which they stand above shall
be made, and in proceeding to vote, motions pending shall be put in the order
of their rank as arranged in divisions (L)(1)-(11). The first seven are not
subject to debate. A motion to postpone to a certain time, refer, and amend or
to postpone indefinitely may be amended; to call the question may be demanded
before an amendment, which motion shall be decided without debate. A motion to
adjourn shall always be in order provided that business of a nature to be
recorded in the journal has been transacted since any previous motion to
adjourn has been defeated. No motion or proposition of a subject different from
that under consideration shall be admitted under color of an amendment. When a
matter has been especially assigned to be taken up at a fixed time, or at
certain stage of proceedings, such matter shall, at the appointed time or at
any subsequent time, be in order upon the call of any member, and take
precedence over all other business.
   (M)   After a motion is stated or read by the presiding officer, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the City Council and shall be disposed of by
vote; but the mover may withdraw it at any time before decision or amendment,
by consent of the second.
   (N)   The City Council rules and order of business shall be observed in all
cases unless suspended temporarily for good cause by a vote of five members
present. Any member may move at any time for the suspension of any rule, and
such motion must be seconded to entitle it to consideration.
   (O)   If any member, in speaking or otherwise, transgresses the rules of the
City Council, the presiding officer shall, or any member may, call him to
order; in which case the member so called to order shall immediately cease
discussion unless permitted by the presiding officer to explain; and the City
Council, if appealed to, shall decide the question without debate. If the
decision is in favor of the member so called to order, he shall be at liberty
to proceed; if otherwise, he shall not proceed without leave of the City
Council to proceed in order.
(Ord. 26-08, passed 9-23-08)
ELECTION PROCEDURE
§ 31.40 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council members shall be elected for a term of four
years.
   (B)   The terms of office for Mayor and Council members shall be staggered,
so that one-half of the membership shall be elected every two years.
(`95 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.41 METHOD OF ELECTION.
   (A)   The members of the City Council shall be elected from the municipality
at large.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be elected at large.
(`95 Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.42 NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All regular and special elections for the offices of Mayor and City
Council held after adoption of this code shall be nonpartisan elections using
the nonpartisan election and runoff method, pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-60.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Public notice for any regular election shall be given at
least 75 days prior to the election. Candidates for the offices of Mayor and
Council shall file statements of candidacy with the Municipal Clerk’s office no
earlier than the day following public notice of the election nor later than 60
days prior to the date of the election.
         (b)   Public notice for any special election shall be given at least
60 days prior to the election. Candidates for the offices of Mayor and Council
shall file statements of candidacy with the Municipal Clerk’s office no earlier
than the day following public notice of the election nor later than 45 days
prior to the date of the election.
         (c)   A second public notice of a regular or special election shall be
given not later than two weeks after the first notice.
      (2)   The Charleston County Board of Elections shall place the names of
the qualified candidates upon the ballot.
   (C)   No political party affiliation shall be placed on any ballot for any
candidate.
(`95 Code, § 1-7-3) (Am. Ord. 09-06, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 25-13, passed 12-
10-13; Am. Ord. 012-23, passed 6-13-23)
Statutory Reference:
   S.C. Code §§ 5-15-50, 5-15-70, 7-13-35
§ 31.43 FILING FEES.
   Candidates for the office of Mayor and Council shall at the time of filing a
statement of candidacy with the Charleston County Board of Elections, or the
City Clerk-Treasurer if so designated, pay a filing fee not to exceed $50 for a
candidacy for Mayor and a filing fee not to exceed $25 for a candidacy for
Council.
(`95 Code, § 1-7-4) (Ord. 81-18, passed 11-3-81; Am. Ord. 012-23, passed 6-13-
23)
§ 31.44 TIMES OF ELECTIONS.
   (A)   General elections for the offices of Mayor and Council shall be held
on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November in odd numbered
years. Special elections shall be held on a date determined by the Council, as
called by ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   This section shall be effective upon enactment. The city election
following the passage of this section will be on November 7, 2023, thus
changing the expiration of three Council seats from April 2024 to November
2023. The city's next election after 2023 will be on November 4, 2025, thus
changing the expiration of three Council seats and the Mayor's seat from April
2026 to November 4, 2025.
(`95 Code, § 1-7-5) (Ord. 84-16, passed 8-8-84; Am. Ord. 89-18, passed 12-19-
89; Am. Ord. 012-23, passed 6-13-23)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Mayor; powers and duties
   
32.02   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
32.03   City Administrator
   
32.04   Appointment and duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.05   City Attorney
   
32.06   Appointment and duties of Municipal Clerk
   
32.07   Appointment of judge of Municipal Court
Cross-reference:
   Election Procedure, see §§
31.50 through
31.54
   Personnel, see
Chapter 37
§ 32.01 MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In addition to the powers mentioned in §§ 31.04 and 31.05, the Mayor
shall be the chief administrative officer of the municipality. He or she shall
be responsible to the Council for the administration of all city affairs placed
in his or her charge by or under S.C. Code § 5-9-30, as amended.
   (B)   He or she shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To appoint and, when he or she deems it necessary for the good of
the municipality, suspend or remove all municipal employees and appointive
administrative officers provided for by or under this code, except as otherwise
provided by law, or personnel rules adopted pursuant to this code; (He or she
may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to his or her direction
and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that
officer's department, office or agency.)
      (2)   To direct and supervise the administra- tion of all departments,
offices and agencies of the municipality, except as otherwise provided by this
code;
      (3)   To preside at meetings of the Council and vote as other Council
members;
      (4)   To act to insure that all laws, provisions of this chapter and
ordinances of the Council, subject to enforcement by him or her or by officers
subject to his or her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
      (5)   To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the
Council;
      (6)   To submit to the Council and make available to the public a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
municipality as of the end of each fiscal year; and
      (7)   To make other reports as the Council may require concerning the
operations of municipal departments, offices and agencies subject to his or her
direction and supervision.
(S.C. Code § 5-9-30) (`95 Code, § 1-2-9)
§ 32.02 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The City Council shall elect, after each regular two-year election, one of
their body as the Mayor Pro Tempore to serve as such for two years, who shall
act as Mayor during the absence or disability of the Mayor, and if a vacancy
occurs shall act as Mayor until a successor is duly elected and qualified.
(`95 Code, § 1-2-10)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro-Tem, S.C. Code § 5-7-190
§ 32.03 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Office of City Administrator is hereby created. The powers and duties
shall be set as per S.C. Code § 5-9-30, which lists the specific powers of the
Mayor so as to authorize the administrative officer to perform the duties of
Administrator, as specified by the Mayor, and in accordance with the laws of
the state.
(`95 Code, § 1-4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to hire administrator, S.C. Code § 5-9-40
§ 32.04 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   City Council shall appoint the City Clerk- Treasurer. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall serve as the city's historian, business license administrator,
collector of all city funds; ensuring said funds are balanced and accurately
recorded daily, maintains all city files and records pertaining to the
administration of the city, and performs other such duties as are assigned by
City Council.
(`95 Code, § 1-4-4) (Am. Ord. 23-10, as amended, passed 9-28-10)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of clerk, S.C. Code § 5-7-220
§ 32.05 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The city may appoint an attorney at law to represent the city in court, to
advise city officials and employees and to do the work for the city as may be
required from time to time. The salary and terms of employment shall be
determined by the City Council.
(`95 Code, § 1-4-5)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of attorney, S.C. Code § 5-7-230
§ 32.06 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   The City Council shall appoint an officer of the municipality who shall have
the title of Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall give notice of Council
meetings to its members and the public, keep the minutes of its proceedings,
prepare the agenda for all Council meetings, maintain and update the Folly
Beach Code of Ordinances, maintain permanent record of all resolutions,
ordinances, and minutes approved by Council, and perform such other duties as
are assigned by Council.
(Ord. 23-10, as amended, passed 9-28-10)
§ 32.07 APPOINTMENT OF JUDGE OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   The City Council may appoint a judge or judges of the Municipal Court,
whose duties shall be as prescribed by law. The appointed judge shall serve a
term of two years until a successor is appointed and qualified. His or her
compensation must be fixed by the Council. No Mayor or Councilperson shall be
so elected or appointed to serve as Municipal Judge during his or her term of
office. The provisions of this section do not apply to a mayor who presides
over a mayor's court in his or her capacity as mayor as authorized by S.C. Code
§ 5-7-90.
   (B)   All municipal judges shall complete a training program or pass
certification or recertification examinations, unless exempted through
guidelines established by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, which are
based upon experience or education factors pursuant to S.C. Code § 14-25-15.
(Ord. 23-10, as amended, passed 9-28-10)
Cross reference:
   Judge; election; term, see §
34.02
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Council’s power
   
33.002   Creation of specific departments and personnel
   
33.003   Creation of specific boards, commissions, and committees
   
33.004   Continuing education requirements for board, commission, and committee
members and professional employees
Accommodations Tax Advisory Board
   
33.010   Accommodations Tax Advisory Board
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
33.020   Board of Zoning Appeals
Community Promotions Committee
   
33.030   Community Promotions Committee
Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
33.040   Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals
Design Review Board
   
33.050   Design Review Board
Parks and Recreation Board
   
33.060   Parks and Recreation Board
Planning Commission
   
33.070   Planning Commission
Staff Event Planning Committee
   
33.080   Staff Event Planning Committee
Tourism and Visitor Promotion Committee
   
33.090   Tourism and Visitor Promotion Committee
Utility Advisory Board
   
33.100   Utility Advisory Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 COUNCIL'S POWER.
   (A)   City Council may, by ordinance, create, change and abolish offices,
departments, or agencies of the municipal government in addition to those
created by this code and may prescribe the functions of all departments,
offices, and agencies, except that no function assigned by law to a particular
department, office, or agency may be discontinued or assigned to any other
agency.
   (B)   The head of each department shall be designated director thereof and
shall have supervision and control over his or her department subject, however,
to the direction of the City Administrator, as specified by the Mayor.
(‘95 Code, § 1-4-1) (Am. Ord. 41-06, passed 10-24-06; Am. Ord. 25-17, passed 9-
26-17)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish offices, departments and agencies, S.C. Code § 5-11-
40
§ 33.002 CREATION OF SPECIFIC DEPARTMENTS AND PERSONNEL POSITIONS.
   (A)   There are hereby established and created the following departments for
the city:
      (1)   Public Safety: Police and Fire;
      (2)   Public Works;
      (3)   Administration: Finance; Human Resources; Zoning, Planning, and
Business Licenses; and Information Technology;
      (4)   Building and Facilities; and
      (5)   Utilities.
   (B)   Under the direct supervision of the City Administrator, as specified
by the Mayor, persons appointed as the heads of the departments listed above
shall be responsible for the functions and duties as prescribed in this code
and other duties as the City Council may from time to time determine.
   (C)   All sworn police officers of the city shall be invested with all the
powers and subject to all the duties conferred by law upon constables. In
addition to any other duties and functions prescribed by ordinance, the
Department of Public Safety shall:
      (1)   Provide protection for persons and property against unlawful acts;
      (2)   Provide police patrol services in all areas of the city;
      (3)   Investigate crimes;
      (4)   Apprehend, arrest and assist in the prosecution of perpetrators of
crimes;
      (5)   Maintain an active crime prevention and control program; and
      (6)   Provide fire suppression and first aid services.
   (D)   In the event of a multi-agency, multi-jurisdictional response in the
city, the Department of Public Safety shall establish a single command
utilizing groups, divisions, branches, or establish a Unified Command per the
National Incident Management System (NIMS) Incident Command System (ICS).
   (E)   The Mayor, upon any emergency or apprehension of riot or tumult or mob
violence or threatened violence, is hereby vested with the authority to appoint
as many special police officers as necessary. Special police officers shall be
paid amounts as may be agreed upon at the time of appointment but shall not be
paid at a higher rate than that paid to regular police officers. Special police
officers shall obey all rules of the Public Safety Department, and shall be
under the supervision of the Director of Public Safety.
(‘95 Code, § 2-1-2) (Am. Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to appoint regular and special police officers, S.C. Code § 5-7-
110
§ 33.003 CREATION OF SPECIFIC BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   There are hereby established and created the following Boards,
Commissions, and Committees for the city:
      (1)   Accommodations Tax Advisory Board;
      (2)   Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (3)   Community Promotions Committee;
      (4)   Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals;
      (5)   Design Review Board;
      (6)   Parks and Recreation Board;
      (7)   Planning Commission;
      (8)   Staff Event Planning Committee;
      (9)   Tourism and Visitors Promotion Committee; and
      (10)   Utilities Advisory Board.
   (B)   No spouse, individual living in the same household and sharing all
benefits of a relationship as if a spouse, children, or members of the
immediate family of a City Council member shall serve on any board, commission,
or committee elected or appointed by City Council.
   (C)   Appointments to all boards, commissions, and committees of the city,
except those running concurrent to the terms of Council and the Mayor, shall be
made no later than June 1 of each year and shall be for a term of three years
except for the Planning Commission. All members of boards, commissions, and
committees shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified.
      (1)   Terms for all boards, commissions, and committees of the city,
shall be established in such a way that the expiration of individual terms are
staggered. No more than one half the terms of any board, commission, or
committee shall expire in any given year.
      (2)   Any member of a board, committee, or commission appointed by a
Council member or the Mayor can be replaced at any time and for any reason, at
the sole discretion of the Council member or Mayor who appointed that member.
      (3)   Members of boards, committees, commissions may be replaced at any
time by City Council for cause.
      (4)    The existence of cause shall be discussed by the Council in
executive session as permitted by the Freedom of Information Act, S.C. Code §
30-4-70(a)(l), and the determination of removal shall be by vote in public
session declaring a vacancy in the position without a statement of cause.
         (a)   Any fact which, in the discretion of Council, is deemed to
adversely affect the public interest, including lack of attendance at meetings,
may constitute cause.
         (b)   Failure to notify the Staff Liaison of an absence at lease 48
hours in advance of the scheduled meeting, barring emergencies, shall
constitute an unexcused absence. Members with two or more unexcused absences
within a 12-month period shall constitute cause for removal.
   (D)   Each board, commission, or committee shall, at the call of the Chair,
establish its own rules of procedure. Minutes of the meetings shall be recorded
with a copy to be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk and a copy to be
submitted to the City Council.
   (E)   Each board, commission, or committee shall prepare an annual report to
City Council no later than February 1 containing a summary of matters voted on
by the Board in the previous twelve months. The report of the Accommodations
Tax Advisory Board shall be submitted to Council no later than September 15.
   (F)   Each board, commission, or committee shall appoint a Chair and Vice-
Chair annually, with the appointment to take place no later than August 1 of
each year.
   (G)   Members of any board, commission, or committee shall serve without
additional compensation. Reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in the
performance of official duties may be reimbursed from budgeted funds pursuant
to reimbursement policies and procedures for employees of the city.
   (H)   All meetings of any board, commission, and committee are subject to
the requirements of the South Carolina Freedom of Information Act. All meetings
shall be duly advertised and open to the public, except in cases where the
Freedom of Information Act permits executive sessions. No official actions or
votes may be taken in executive sessions.
   (I)   All boards, commissions, and committees shall follow the most recent
version of Robert's Rules of Order.
   (J)   Any individuals seeking to serve on a board or commission shall
undergo a pre-appointment background check similar to those conducted for city
employees.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17; Am. Ord. 037-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 006-22,
passed 5-10-22)
§ 33.004 CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR BOARD, COMMISSION, AND COMMITTEE
MEMBERS AND PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All board, commission, and committee members shall attend at least one
annual meeting, to be offered by the city, to review general ethical
considerations.
   (B)   All members the Board of Zoning Appeals, Design Review Board, Planning
Commission, and all professional planning employees are subject to additional
requirements as follows:
      (1)   Without exemption each appointed official and professional employee
of the city must: (a) attend a minimum of six hours of orientation training
within one year after the initial appointment, or hire date; and (b) after the
first year of service, attend annually at least three hours of continuing
education in an area directly related to the employee's field of expertise or
in the case of an appointed official in a field related to their appointed
position.
      (2)   Unless exempted, each appointed official and professional employee
with planning and zoning duties must: (a) attend a minimum of six hours of
orientation training six months to one year after initial appointment; and (b)
annually after the first year of service attend at least three hours of
continuing education in an area directly related to current developments in
planning and zoning.
      (3)   Subjects for education programs shall include but shall not be
limited to: land use planning, zoning, floodplains, transportation, community
facilities, transportation, ethics, public utilities, wireless
telecommunication facilities, parliamentary procedure, administrative law,
economic development, housing, public building, building construction, land
subdivision, and powers and duties of the Planning Commission, Board of Zoning
Appeals, or Design Review Board.
      (4)   A person who attended six hours of orientation training for a prior
appointment is exempt from the orientation requirement for a subsequent
appointment after a break in service, but must comply with the annual three-
hour requirement (S.C. Code § 6-29-1340).
      (5)   Annual certification of compliance with education requirements
shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk in the form prescribed by S.C. Code §
6-29-1360. The form is a public record.
      (6)   Those appointed officials and professional employees who have one
or more of the following qualifications are exempt from the educational
requirements:
         (a)   certification by the American Institute of Certified Planners;
         (b)   masters or doctorate degree or specialized training or
experience in planning or a field related to planning as determined by the
advisory committee;
         (c)   license to practice law in South Carolina. Certification of
exemption shall be filed no later than the first anniversary or appointment or
employment.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of the city to provide approved
educational programs, or provide funding for attendance of approved educational
programs provided by others. The City Administrator or Mayor must approve all
educational programs.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
ACCOMMODATIONS TAX ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.010 ACCOMMODATIONS TAX ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose.
   The Accommodations Tax Advisory Board shall make recommendations to City
Council on, and establish guidelines for, the granting of 65% of the state
accommodations funds, also called discretionary funds, pursuant to S.C. Code §
6-4-10 et seq.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of seven members: four of whom shall
represent the hospitality industry, with two of those four being from the
lodging sector; one shall represent a cultural organization; and two shall
represent the general public. If all applicants are similarly qualified,
preference should be given to Folly Beach residents and registered voters.
      (2)   The Board shall publish in the local newspaper an advertisement
stating the guidelines to be used in applying for the funds, the date when the
applications are due, and the name and phone numbers of the contact person.
      (3)   After the applications have been received and reviewed by the
Board, the Board shall set a date and time for a meeting to hear testimony from
all applicants.
      (4)   The Board shall submit to the Municipal Clerk within ten days after
the hearing its recommendations to City Council.
      (5)   After filing its recommendations with the Municipal Clerk, the
Board shall submit its recommendations to City Council on the granting of
discretionary funds.
   (C)   Meetings. The Accommodations Tax Advisory Board shall meet when
necessary to review and make recommendation to Council for the distribution of
tax funds no later than September 15 of each year.
   (D)   Guidelines for distribution of funds.
      (1)   Sixty-five percent of the accommodations taxes received from the
state, plus any interest earned, shall be placed in a special designated
account until the time as the funds are distributed. Any funds not distributed
for the fiscal year shall be earned over for redirection by ATAX, in addition
to the next fiscal year's funds for distribution. If the funds have not been
redirected by ATAX 30 days prior to their extinction dates, City Council shall
expeditiously direct appropriate expenditure of these funds without ATAX
recommendation.
      (2)   Entities or individuals applying for discretionary funds must
either be a nonprofit organization or representing a nonprofit organization. It
is not necessary for the applicant to have a 401(3)(c) Internal Revenue status
to receive funds, but must be able to prove to the Board, if requested, that it
is not a for-profit business.
      (3)   All requests for funding shall be tourism-related which include the
following:
         (a)   Advertising and promotion of tourism so as to develop and
increase tourist attendance through the generation of publicity;
         (b)   Promotion of the arts and culture;
         (c)   Construction, maintenance and operation of facilities for civic
and cultural activities including construction and maintenance of access and
the nearby roads and utilities for the facilities;
         (d)   Funding for the criminal justice system, law enforcement, fire
protection, solid waste collection and health facilities when required to serve
tourists and tourist facilities. The expenditure under this section must be for
items that would normally not be provided if the city had no tourist activity
and the amount of the expenditure must be based on the estimated percentage of
costs attributable to tourism.
         (e)   Public facilities such as restrooms, dressing rooms parks, and
parking lots;
         (f)   Tourist shuttle transportation;
         (g)   Control and repair of waterfront erosion; and
         (h)   The operating of visitor information centers.
      (4)   Under the state statute, in order to qualify as a "tourism-related
expenditure" an expenditure must be used to attract or provide for tourists and
cannot be used for an item that would normally be provided by the city.
      (5)   In order to qualify, applicants must provide a 25% match in funds.
In-kind labor and contributions can be used toward the match. Proof of the
match must be submitted at the time of the submission of the application.
      (6)   When submitting applications, applicants must provide:
         (a)   A budget showing revenues and expenditures when submitting their
application;
         (b)   The names of all members of their board, commission or committee
when submitting their applications;
         (c)    A list of other projects in which they have been involved,
i.e., Sea and Sand Festival, Art Show and Competition and the like;
      (7)   A closing report with actual revenues and expenditures before
August 1 of the following year. The report must include a list of items or
services showing how funds were spent in one of the following formats: a bank
statement with a detailed list of charges; canceled checks; receipts; or other
suitable documentation. Future funds must be withheld if reports are not
received.
      (8)   Any violation of the guidelines by the applicant shall result in
forfeiture of any funds received and the applicant shall be prohibited from
applying for future discretionary funds.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17; Am. Ord. 27-19, passed 9-10-19)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 33.020 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Purpose.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear appeals to the decisions of the
administration of the zoning ordinance, requests for variances and requests for
special exceptions in accordance with S.C. Code § 6-29-780 et sq. and Chapter
162 of the Folly Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of seven members, who shall be full-time,
year round residents and registered voters of the city. Full-time, year round
residency shall be determined by address appearing on voter's registration
card, driver's license, and most current federal tax return. Membership shall
be for overlapping terms of three years.
         (a)   No member of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be the holder of
any other public office in the city or county.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall attend all meetings for the
purpose of providing technical assistance when requested by the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
         (c)   All members shall take the official oath in accordance with
state law within ten days of receiving notice of appointment.
         (d)   Any member who has any interest in a matter before the Board
shall declare the interest to the City Attorney and upon the advice of City
Attorney shall not vote thereon nor participate in any meeting or hearing, or
attend any executive session at which the matter is under consideration.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following duties:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
an order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in enforcement of the zoning sections of this code.
         (b)   To hear and decide appeals for variances from the requirements
of the Folly Beach zoning code when strict application of the provisions of the
code would result in unnecessary hardship.
         (c)   To permit uses by special exception subject to the terms and
conditions set forth for such uses in Chapter 162.03-03 of the Folly Beach
zoning code.
         (d)   To remand a matter to an administrative official, upon motion by
a party or the board's own motion, if the board determines the record is
insufficient for review. A party's motion for remand may be denied if the board
determines that the record is sufficient for review. The board must set a
rehearing on the remanded matter without further public notice for a time
certain within sixty days unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. The board
must maintain a list of persons who express an interest in being informed when
the remanded matter is set for rehearing, and notice of the rehearing must be
mailed to these persons prior to the rehearing.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall meet when necessary to hear
appeals, and requests for variances or special exceptions.
      (2)   All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be transcribed
verbatim.
   (D)   Contempt. In case of contempt by a party, witness, or other person
before the board of appeals, the board may certify this fact to the circuit
court of the county in which the contempt occurs and the judge of the court, in
open court or in chambers, after hearing, may impose a penalty as authorized by
law.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   A person who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the
board of appeals or an officer or agent of the appropriate governing authority
may appeal from a decision of the board to the circuit court in and for the
county, by filing with the clerk of the court a petition in writing setting
forth plainly, fully, and distinctly why the decision is contrary to law. The
appeal must be filed within 30 days after the decision of the board is mailed.
      (2)   A property owner whose land is the subject of a decision of the
board of appeals may appeal either:
         (a)   As provided in division (E)(1); or
         (b)   By filing a notice of appeal with the circuit court accompanied
by a request for pre-litigation mediation in accordance with S. C. Code § 6-29-
825. Any notice of appeal and request for pre-litigation mediation must be
filed within thirty days after the decision of the board is postmarked.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
COMMUNITY PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE
§ 33.030 COMMUNITY PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The Community Promotions Committee shall make recommendations
to City Council on, and establish guidelines for, the donation of funds in the
City's Community Promotions Account to individuals, organizations, and non-
profit entities.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The Committee shall consist of five members. All members shall be
property owners or residents of the city; one of whom shall represent a non-
profit entity; one of whom shall represent the business sector, and three shall
represent the general public.
      (2)   The Community Promotions Committee shall review all requests for
disbursement of funds from the Community Promotions Account.
         (a)   Applications for funds shall be accepted on an ongoing basis.
         (b)   The Foundation shall make recommendations for approval only if
the funds proposed to be donated to individuals, organizations, and non-profit
entities are to be used for a public purpose. Public purpose is defined as
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, general welfare, security,
prosperity, and contentment of all the residents of the city or at least a
substantial part thereof.
         (c)   When a request for funds has been recommended for approval, a
memorandum shall be submitted to the City Council listing the applicant and the
funds recommended.
   (C)   Meetings. TThe Community Promotions Committee shall meet when
necessary to review applications for funding.
   (D)   Guidelines for reporting.
      (1)   A closing report with actual expenditures before August 1 of the
following year. The report must include a list of items or services showing how
funds were spent in one of the following formats: a bank statement with a
detailed list of charges; canceled checks; receipts; or other suitable
documentation. Future funds must be withheld if reports are not received.
      (2)   Any violation of the guidelines by the applicant shall result in
forfeiture of any funds received and the applicant shall be prohibited from
applying for future discretionary funds.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17; Am. Ord. 27-19, passed 9-10-19)
CONSTRUCTION AND FIRE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS
§ 33.040 CONSTRUCTION AND FIRE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals
shall hear appeals from decisions of the Building Official and the Fire Code
Official and to consider variances of the technical building, fire, or flood
codes.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The board of appeals shall consist of five individuals, one from
each of the following professions or disciplines:
         (a)   Registered design professional with architectural experience or
a builder or superintendent of building construction with at least ten years'
experience, five of which shall have provided supervisory direction and
controlled authority.
         (b)   Registered design professional with structural engineering
experience.
         (c)   Registered design professional with mechanical and plumbing
engineering experience or a mechanical contractor with at least ten years'
experience, five of which shall have provided supervisory direction and
controlled authority.
         (d)   Registered design professional with electrical engineering
experience or an electrical contractor with at least ten years' experience,
five of which shall have provided supervisory direction and controlled
authority.
         (e)   Registered design professional with fire protection engineering
experience or a fire protection contractor with at least ten years' experience,
five of which shall have provided supervisory direction and controlled
authority.
      (2)   No member of the Board shall hold any other public office or
position in the city while serving on the Construction and Fire Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
      (3)   The duties of the Board include to hear and decide appeals of
decisions and interpretations of the Building Official and to consider
variances of the technical building, fire, or flood codes.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall
meet when necessary to hear appeals.
      (2)   All meetings of the Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall be transcribed verbatim.
      (3)   Decisions shall be made by a majority vote when a quorum is
present, but no fewer than three affirmative votes shall be required to modify
a decision of the Building Official or to vary any provision of the adopted
technical building, fire, or flood codes.
      (4)   The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
§ 33.050 DESIGN REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Design Review Board is established to protect the character and
village atmosphere of the commercial districts; to preserve and protect any
buildings or areas of historic significance; to promote the general welfare of
the city and of the public in general; to preserve property values; to insure
the harmonious, orderly, and efficient growth and development of the city; to
preserve significant natural scenic areas; and to promote a pedestrian friendly
business district.
      (2)   The Design Review Board shall review all new construction,
renovations, or other changes to the exterior appearance of all buildings in
the commercial districts of the city. The Board's authority shall also extend
to signs, fences, and accessory structures erected in the commercial districts.
      (3)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the
ordinary maintenance, exterior painting or repair of any exterior elements of
any existing building or structure with like for like materials and colors; nor
shall anything in this subchapter be construed to prevent the construction,
reconstruction, alteration or demolition of any such elements, which the
authorized municipal officers shall have certified as required by public
safety.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of five full-time, year round residents and
registered voters appointed at-large by City Council. When making appointments,
Council shall give preference to one member being an architect, one member
being a realtor, one member being a city planner or landscape architect, and
one member being a licensed general or residential contractor. Experience and
length of residency of a prospective member should be considered.
      (2)   The Board shall review all new construction, renovations, or other
changes to the exterior of any building in the commercial districts to ensure
that:
         (a)   New buildings and renovations employ practical elements native
to southern coastal communities such as porches, decks, abundant windows and
doors, awnings, and ample roof overhangs as a basic philosophy. These elements
combined with wall and roof articulations should be employed to break up the
massing so that a compatible scale and visual interest is achieved.
         (b)   The design addresses the entire exterior envelope of the
building so that it does not appear to be a facade attached to a disparate box.
         (c)   Ornamentation is simple, artful, or interesting without
appearing overbearing or contrived.
         (d)   Buildings show a respect for the past while not being overtly
constrained by convention.
         (e)   The landscape is preserved in its natural state, in so far as
practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal, and any grade changes shall
be in keeping within the general appearance of neighboring developed areas.
         (f)   Proposed structures relate harmoniously to the terrain and to
existing buildings in the vicinity that have a visual relationship to the
proposed buildings.
         (g)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation, including walkways,
interior drives, and parking, are safe and convenient and do not dominate or
detract from the design of proposed buildings and structures and the
neighboring properties.
         (h)   Wherever feasible, onsite electric, telephone and other utility
lines shall be underground or screened.
         (i)   Outdoor storage areas, expanse of parking, exposed machinery
installations, service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings, and
structures and similar accessory areas are screened in such a way incongruous
with the existing or contemplated environment and the surrounding properties.
      (3)   When considering applications, the Board shall also consider, among
other things, architectural and aesthetic features, the nature and character of
the surrounding area, the use of any structures, the character and
appropriateness of design, the scale of building(s), the arrangement and
texture of material(s), color, and the relation of such elements to similar
features of structures in the immediate surroundings.
      (4)   The Board may deny approval of a design based on, but not limited
to, the following considerations:
         (a)   Arresting and spectacular effects; appearance;
         (b)   Violent contrasts of materials or colors and intense or lurid
colors;
         (c)   A multiplicity or incongruity of details resulting in a restless
and disturbing appearance;
         (d)   The absence of unity and coherence in composition not in
consonance with the dignity and character of the present structure in case of
repair;
         (e)   The construction, remodeling, or enlargement of an existing
building that does not match the prevailing character of the area;
         (f)   Overbearing massing;
         (g)   Excessive repetition of design elements, treatments, or modules;
and/or
         (h)   Lack of architectural interest.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Design Review Board shall meet at least monthly at a date and
time set by the Board.
      (2)   A Board member who is associated with an application to the Board
of Design Review which might influence his or her vote, shall abstain from
voting on the application to avoid a conflict of interest. The member may be
present at the presentation of the application to answer questions, if
required; however, he/she shall leave the room during the voting.
   (D)   Documentation required for review.
      (1)   Accelerated review. Accelerated review may be granted for minor
projects involving repair or alterations to existing buildings if the drawings
and other data submitted are sufficiently clear and explicit. Documentation
required for accelerated review:
         (a)   Architectural plans and exterior elevations drawn to a minimum
scale of 1/8 inch = 1 foot showing exterior appearances and architectural
design of buildings (including proposed and existing materials and textures).
         (b)   Site plan and landscape plan drawn to a minimum scale of 1 inch
= 20 feet, graphically indicating the location of existing trees to be retained
on the site, the locations, varieties and sizes of trees and plant materials to
be planted on the site, other pertinent landscape features, and the type of
irrigation system to be installed.
         (c)   Photographs showing streetscape and all sides of structure.
      (2)   The Board shall conduct a conceptual, preliminary, and final review
of all projects not eligible for accelerated review. Applications for each
review must be made at least ten days prior to the next scheduled meeting of
the Design Review Board.
      (3)   Conceptual review. Documentation required for conceptual review:
         (a)   Schematic site plan, illustrating; proposed footprint(s) of the
building(s); parcel boundaries; proposed access and exterior circulation;
approximate basic dimensions; and all trees that are subject to protection
under the tree ordinance.
         (b)   Basic, sketch elevation(s) of the proposed building(s).
      (4)   Preliminary review documentation required for preliminary review:
         (a)   Site plan drawn at a minimum scale of 1/32 inch = 1 foot showing
the existing and proposed structure(s) on the lot with the dimensions relative
to the property line; existing neighboring building(s) adjacent to the property
line; exterior pedestrian and vehicular circulation, including driveways,
parking areas, sidewalks, boardwalks, porticos, patios, galleries, and other
open-air spaces and routes accessible or integral to exterior circulation;
location of circulation lighting fixtures; tree survey, depicting all protected
trees on the site, indicated for protection or removal; graded and landscaped
areas, including structural elements integral to engineering or design, such as
walls and gates; location, size, and type of signage and inhabitable accessory
buildings.
         (b)   Building elevations drawn at a minimum scale of 1/16 inch = 1
foot; showing the following vertical dimensions; existing grade, proposed
grade, finish floor elevations; and building height; roof slopes; fenestration,
entrances, and other voids in the building envelope; indication of cladding
materials; and exterior protrusions and spaces, including but not limited to,
stoops, stairs, cupolas, elevator penthouses, awnings and canopies, porches and
balconies, railings, and chimneys.
         (c)   Panoramic photograph including a general view of the street
showing the building, site and adjacent property (streetscape); individual
photographs of the buildings immediately adjacent to and across from the site;
and a frontal view of the building site from the street.
         (d)   Contextual model showing the new building in existing
environment if and when required by the Board of Design Review.
      (5)   Final review. Documentation required for final review:
         (a)   Site plan drawn to a minimum scale of 1 inch = 20 feet, showing
the proposed structure(s) on the lot with the dimensions relative to the
property line; existing neighboring building(s) adjacent to the property line;
demolition of existing site features; and location of all proposed site
features such as parking, driveways, walls, gates, and location and size of
mechanical equipment, landscaped areas, and accessory buildings.
         (b)   Floor plans drawn at a minimum scale of 1/8 inch = 1 foot
depicting the arrangement of the interior spaces of the first floor plan should
show the relationship between the first and ground floors and the site. Show
the location of windows and doors, mechanical equipment, electrical meter
location, and electrical service access.
         (c)   Building elevations and typical building cross section through
all elevations drawn at a minimum scale of 1/8 inch = 1 foot, including
vertical dimensions; existing grade; proposed grade; finish floor elevations;
roof slopes; mechanical vents and equipment; location and type of outdoor
lighting fixtures that must conform to lighting requirements in §§
151.47 through §
151.49 and §§
134.30 through
134.99; design and location of signage; and proposed material selections and
textures, indicated by hatching where appropriate, including those for wall
cladding, roofs, chimney flues, gutters and downspouts, and porches and
railings.
         (d)   A landscape plan drawn to a minimum scale of 1 inch = 20 feet,
showing the location of existing trees to be retained or removed on the site;
the locations, varieties, and sizes of trees and plant materials (graphically
indicated) to be planted on the site; other pertinent landscape features; and
indication of the type of irrigation system to be installed, where applicable.
         (e)   Typical construction details, and typical wall section.
         (f)   Materials specification outline with samples, brochures, and/or
photographs of all exterior materials, colors, finishes, and fixtures.
         (g)   Contextual model showing the new building in the existing
environment, if and when required by the Board of Design Review.
         (h)   Panoramic photograph showing a general view of the street
showing the building, site and adjacent property (streetscape); individual
photographs of the buildings immediately adjacent to and across from the site;
and a frontal view of the building site from the street.
         (i)   Drawings of proposed signs illustrating the proposed lettering
and graphics drawn to scale, colors of the proposed sign shall be indicated on
the drawing, and actual color samples shall also be furnished. Any proposed
illumination techniques shall be indicated on the drawing.
      (6)   The Board may opt to approve or conditionally approve one or more
portions of a project submitted for review in order to allow the applicant to
progress that portion of the project to the next phase of design review or to
allow that portion of the project to gain a certificate of approval and be
submitted for land development permits.
   (E)   Contempt. In case of contempt by a party, witness, or other person
before the Design Review Board, the board may certify this fact to the circuit
court of the county in which the contempt occurs and the judge of the court, in
open court or in chambers, after hearing, may impose a penalty as authorized by
law.
   (F)   Appeals.
      (1)   A person who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the
Design Review Board or an officer or agent of the appropriate governing
authority may appeal from a decision of the board to the circuit court in and
for the county, by filing with the clerk of the court a petition in writing
setting forth plainly, fully, and distinctly why the decision is contrary to
law. The appeal must be filed within thirty days after the decision of the
board is mailed.
      (2)   A property owner whose land is the subject of a decision of the
board of appeals may appeal either:
         (a)   As provided in division (F)(1); or
         (b)   By filing a notice of appeal with the circuit court accompanied
by a request for pre-litigation mediation in accordance with S.C. Code § 6-29-
915. Any notice of appeal and request for pre-litigation mediation must be
filed within thirty days after the decision of the board is postmarked.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 33.060 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Parks and Recreation Committee is to
provide citizens of all ages with safe, clean, well-maintained places to play,
exercise, relax, and engage in community-related activities.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall consist of seven members. The
members shall be residents or property owners of the city.
      (2)   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall prepare a parks and
recreation plan encompassing all city-owned parks, playgrounds, and other
recreation areas. The plan shall recommend new recreation areas; make
recommendations as to the layout, equipment, operations, landscaping, and
beautification of recreation areas; and include rules and regulations regarding
the use of recreation areas. The plan shall also include a schedule for repair,
replacement, modification, and maintenance of recreation areas.
      (3)   The Committee shall present the plan to City Council for approval
and review the plan every five years and modify as necessary. All modified
plans shall be resubmitted to City Council for approval.
      (4)   The Committee shall prepare annually a request for funds on a
format to be provided by the City Administrator defining the scope of the work,
recommendations for purchases of capital items, funds needed for operation and
maintenance, including, but not limited to, part- time labor. The request for
funds shall be submitted to the City Administrator for budget preparations no
later than March 1 of each year.
   (C)   Meetings. The Parks and Recreation Board shall meet when necessary but
in no case less than once per month.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.070 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The Planning Commission shall serve as an advisory body to
Council on matters related to zoning, subdivisions, and other areas as provided
in S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310 et seq.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of nine members. City Council-shall
consider applicants based on professional expertise, knowledge of the community
and concern for the future welfare of the total community and its citizens.
Members of the Commission shall represent a broad cross section of the
interests and concerns within the jurisdiction.
         (a)   Seven members shall be appointed individually by members of City
Council and the Mayor upon their election and shall serve terms concurrent with
the Council member who appointed them.
         (b)   Two members shall be appointed by Council at large in the year
following a Mayoral election and shall serve four year terms.
         (c)   In the event that a Council member or Mayor vacates his or her
seat on Council, then the term of the Planning Commission member appointed
by the Council member or Mayor shall continue to serve until the first Council
meeting where the new Council member or Mayor shall appoint his or her
successor.
         (d)   All members of the Planning Commission shall be registered
voters or property owners of the city. The maximum number of non- registered
voters shall be two.
         (e)   If a vacancy in the membership of the Planning Commission occurs
for any reason, the unexpired term of that member shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment.
         (f)   The Chair and Vice-Chair of the Planning Commission shall be
selected annually by the Planning Commission. The selections shall be made no
earlier than June 1 nor later than July 1 of each year.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall have all duties, functions and
responsibilities as set forth in the Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of
1994, which includes, but is not limited to the undertaking of a continuing
planning program for the physical, social and economic growth, development and
redevelopment of the area within its jurisdiction.
      (3)   In the discharge of its responsibilities, the Planning Commission
shall have power and duty to prepare and revise periodically plans and programs
for the development and redevelopment of its area as provided in the
Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall also prepare and recommend for
adoption to the City Council as a means for implementing the plans and programs
in its area:
         (a)   Zoning ordinances to include zoning district maps and
appropriate revisions thereof;
         (b)   Regulations for the subdivision or development of land and
appropriate revisions thereof;
         (c)   An official map and appropriate revision on it showing the exact
location of existing or proposed public streets, highways and utility rights-
of-way, and public building sites, together with regulations to control the
erection of buildings or other structures or changes in land use within the
rights-of-way, building sites or open spaces within its political jurisdiction
or a specified portion of it;
         (d)   A landscaping ordinance setting forth required planting, tree
preservation and other aesthetic considerations for land and structures;
         (e)   A capital improvement program setting for the projects required
to implement plans which have been prepared and adopted, including an annual
listing of priority projects for consideration by the City Council prior to
preparation of its capital budget; and
         (f)   Policies and procedures to facilitate implementation of planning
elements.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall conduct all public hearings necessary
to perform its duties.
   (C)   Meetings. The Planning Commission shall meet when necessary but in no
case less than once per month.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
STAFF EVENT PLANNING COMMITTEE
§ 33.080 STAFF EVENT PLANNING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The Staff Event Planning Committee shall review of events
that utilize public property (streets, parks, playgrounds, beach, buildings or
other public areas within the city) and participate in the approval and
planning of some special events as provided in
Chapter 153.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   City Administrator, or alternate, shall be the chair; receive the
applications for events utilizing public property; organize the meetings; and
communicate with City Council in writing as to the expectations of the event
contact person.
      (2)   Director of Public Safety, or police alternate, who is to provide a
professional recommendation on the need for additional police personnel and
equipment when needed to provide adequate public safety, traffic flow and city
access.
      (3)   Deputy Director of Public Safety, or alternate fire official, who
will assess the need for additional fire and/or EMS personnel and equipment,
emergency access to the site and similar considerations for the protection of
life and property.
      (4)   Director of Public Works, or Public Works alternate, who is to
provide recommendations as to street closings, barricades, trash collection and
removal, as well as an evaluation of the need to mitigate potential
environmental contamination.
      (5)   Comptroller, or financial alternate, who is to assess the
recommendations made and provide the City Administrator with an estimate of
cost to the city to sponsor the event.
      (6)   Municipal Clerk is to place the event on the Council meeting
agenda; contact the event coordinator, contact person, or entity sponsoring the
event to relay all information regarding the event.
   (C)   Meetings. The Staff Event Planning Committee shall meet when necessary
to approve applications for special events.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
TOURISM AND VISITOR PROMOTION COMMITTEE
§ 33.090 TOURISM AND VISITOR PROMOTION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Tourism and Visitor Promotion Committee shall make
recommendations to City Council on, and establish guidelines for, the
advertisement and promotion of tourism for the city using the 30% accommodation
tax funds received from the state pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-4-10 et seq.
      (2)   Thirty percent of the accommodations taxes received from the state,
plus any interest earned, and funds from any other source shall be placed in a
special designated fund and used for advertising and promotion of tourism to
develop and increase tourist attendance through the generation of publicity.
The funds will remain until such time as the funds are distributed. Any funds
not distributed by the close of the fiscal year shall be carried over and used
for promotion of tourism the following fiscal year.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The Committee shall consist of seven members: four of whom shall
represent the hospitality industry, with two of those four being from the
lodging sector; one shall represent a cultural organization; and two shall
represent the general public.
      (2)   The Committee shall prepare a Tourism Promotion Plan and budget
each fiscal year and shall present it to City Council for its approval no later
than May 30 of each year.
      (3)   The Committee shall seek grants to supplement funding.
      (4)   The Committee shall ensure that its status as a nonprofit
corporation remains in good standing.
   (C)   Meetings. The Tourism and Visitor Promotions Committee shall meet when
necessary.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
UTILITY ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.100 UTILITY ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The Utility Advisory Board is established to make
recommendations to City Council on matters relating to the water and sewer
utilities.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   The UAB shall consist of five members: three of whom shall have
knowledge of, and expertise in, the operation of sewer and water utilities, one
of whom shall represent the business sector, and one of whom shall represent
the general public.
      (2)   The UAB shall review and recommend to City Council:
         (a)   Sewer and water utility ordinances and recommend any amendments
the UAB deems necessary to improve the efficiency of said utilities.
         (b)   Changes in staffing or methods of operation it deems necessary
to increase efficiency and/or decrease cost of operation.
         (c)   Proposed utility rate study for water and sewer as prepared by
an outside contractor inclusive of annual operating revenues and rate
adjustments.
         (d)   An annual budget prepared by staff for sewer and water
utilities. The UAB shall annually submit recommended budget to the City
Administrator for review.
         (e)   A long-term capital improvement plan.
         (f)   Policies and procedures UAB deems necessary.
   (C)   Meetings. The Utilities Advisory Board shall meet when necessary.
(Ord. 25-17, passed 9-26-17)
CHAPTER 34: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
34.01   Creation; jurisdiction
   
34.02   Judge; election; term
   
34.03   Judge's powers and duties
   
34.04   Compensation
   
34.05   Court Clerk
   
34.06   (Reserved)
   
34.07   Penalties imposed by Court
§ 34.01 CREATION; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby established the Municipal Court for the city which shall be
a part of the unified judicial system of the state, pursuant to Act No. 480 of
1980 (S.C. Code § 14-25-5 et seq). The Court shall have powers and jurisdiction
as conferred by the Constitution and the S.C. Code.
(`95 Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 34.02 JUDGE; ELECTION; TERM.
   The Municipal Court shall be held by the Municipal Judge. The Judge or
judges shall be appointed by a majority of the City Council and shall serve a
term of two years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(`95 Code, § 1-6-2) (Am. Ord. 23-10, as amended, passed 9-28-10)
Cross reference:
   Appointment of Judge of Municipal Court, see §
32.07
§ 34.03 JUDGE'S POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Judge shall have the powers and duties as provided by the
Constitution and the S.C. Code and other duties, not inconsistent therewith, as
may be ordained by City Council. The Mayor may appoint a duly qualified person
to hold Court, on a temporary basis, in the Judge's absence, in accordance with
S.C. Code § 14-25-25.
(`95 Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 34.04 COMPENSATION.
   The City Council shall fix the salary of the Municipal Judge, which shall
not be diminished nor increased during his or her term of office.
(`95 Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 34.05 COURT CLERK.
   The City Council shall designate a Clerk of Municipal Court, who shall keep
records and make reports as may be required by the Municipal Judge or the State
Court Administrator. Council may designate the City Clerk-Treasurer or other
municipal employee to serve as Clerk of Court.
(`95 Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 34.06 (RESERVED).
§ 34.07 PENALTIES IMPOSED BY COURT.
   Whenever the Municipal Judge finds a party guilty of violating a municipal
ordinance within the jurisdiction of the Court, he or she may impose a fine or
imprisonment, or both, not to exceed $500 or 30 days. Whenever the Municipal
Judge finds a party guilty of violating a state law within the jurisdiction of
the Court, he or she may impose a fine or imprisonment as allowed under state
law.
(`95 Code, § 1-6-6) (Am. Ord. 006-24, passed 3-12-24)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements, S.C. Code § 14-25-65
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Emergency Preparedness
   
35.01   Intent
   
35.02   Director designated
   
35.03   Responsibilities of the Director
   
35.04   Funding beyond statutory limits
   
35.05   Emergency powers of the Mayor
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
§ 35.01 INTENT.
   The intent of, and reason for, the provisions in this subchapter is to
provide a means for the assumption of the responsibilities, costs and
obligations which form a part of federal, state and local emergency
preparedness property programs. It is the intent of the City Council that the
city be prepared to operate under emergency conditions and have limited
authority as necessary depending on the circumstances of emergency situations..
(`95 Code, § 2-3-1) (Am. Ord. 21-16, passed 8-9-16)
§ 35.02 DIRECTOR DESIGNATED.
   The Director of Public Safety is hereby charged with the responsibility of
coordinating the city’s emergency preparedness program and supervising the use
and care of any equipment acquired under that program.
(`95 Code, § 2-3-2) (Am. Ord. 21-16, passed 8-9-16)
§ 35.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Emergency plan. The Director of Public Safety shall be responsible for
maintaining an emergency plan and training city staff and officials on their
responsibilities during an emergency according to the plan.
   (B)   Equipment. The Director of Public Safety shall be responsible for
carrying out all federal emergency management requirements relating to the
legal use, storage, maintenance, resale and reports on civil defense property.
He or she shall be prepared for inspections of the property by qualified state
or federal representatives, and shall assist inspectors upon request.
   (C)   State of Emergency orders. The Director of Public Safety shall be
responsible for carrying out any orders given by the Mayor once a state of
emergency has been declared.
(`95 Code, § 2-3-3) (Am. Ord. 21-16, passed 8-9-16)
§ 35.04 FUNDING BEYOND STATUTORY LIMITS.
   In the event of a natural or manmade disaster, the city shall be allowed to
expend those funds otherwise reserved as a minimum balance of the general fund.
(`95 Code, § 2-3-4) (Am. Ord. 21-16, passed 8-9-16)
§ 35.05 EMERGENCY POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem in the Mayor's absence, may declare a
state of emergency in the event of a natural disaster, manmade disaster, riot,
or other situation that endangers health and welfare. The declaration shall be
in writing and posted at City Hall if physically possible. It shall reference §
35.04 and include the nature of the emergency and the scope of the state of
emergency including its duration. The duration should be no longer than 30 days
unless extended by a new declaration.
   (B)   Once a state of emergency has been declared, the Mayor, or the Mayor
Pro Tem in the Mayor's absence, will have the power to take necessary actions
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Require some or all of the roads within city jurisdiction be
closed;
      (2)   Require the city be evacuated;
      (3)   Establish a curfew within city limits;
      (4)   Authorize the Director of Public Safety to hire people to assist
city staff and fill certain roles and to compensate them in accordance with the
duties they undertake and the number of hours they work;
      (5)   Disperse assemblies or congregations of people;
      (6)   Suspend issuance of permits;
      (7)   Prohibit or restrict business operations within city limits;
      (8)   Designate off-limit areas;
      (9)   Commandeer boats and vehicles; and
      (10)   Authorize the Director of Finance to make emergency purchases
outside of the regular procurement process.
(Ord. 21-16, passed 8-9-16)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Fiscal year
   
36.02   Budget; adoption; administration
   
36.03   Expenditure of funds
   
36.04   Quarterly financial reports
   
36.05   Annual audit
   
36.06   Unreserved fund balance
   
36.07   Litigation expenses
   
36.08   Forms of payment
Purchasing Procedure
   
36.15   Ethics
   
36.16   Informal purchasing and bidding procedures
   
36.17   Formal bidding procedures
   
36.18   Sole source purchasing
   
36.19   Emergency purchases
   
36.20   Filing of a protest
   
36.21   Solicitation or awards in violation of this chapter
   
36.22   Specific city purchasing and procurement policy exclusions
   
36.23   Minor informalities and irregularities in bids
   
36.24   Cancellation of invitation for bids
   
36.25   Bid rejections
   
36.26   Public inspection
   
36.27   Modifications/change orders/price adjustments
Green Purchasing
   
36.40   Green purchasing
Grants Administration
   
36.50   Grants administration
Budget Adjustments
   
36.60   Department appropriation budget adjustments
Municipal Funds Investment Policy
   
36.70   Policy definition
   
36.71   Scope
   
36.72   Policy objectives
   
36.73   Authority
   
36.74   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
36.75   Authorized investments
   
36.76   Collateralization
   
36.77   Safekeeping and custody
   
36.78   Diversification
   
36.79   Maturities
   
36.80   Internal controls
   
36.81   Performance standards
   
36.82   Reporting
 
   
36.99   Sanctions and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The city fiscal year shall begin July 1 and end June 30.
(`95 Code, § 1-5-1) (Am. Ord. 79-9, passed 12-18-79; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-
9-17)
§ 36.02 BUDGET; ADOPTION; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Council shall
adopt an annual operating budget. The budget shall be submitted to Council by
the Mayor no later than May 1 of each year for reviewand revision, as Council
shall desire. If the budget is not approved by July 1 of each year, no monies
shall be expended for the new fiscal year unless first authorized by resolution
of Council. Following its adoption, the Mayor shall be responsible for its
administration.
   (B)   No expenditure of funds shall be authorized by the Mayor, except where
sufficient funds are available within a general departmental budget category.
Any operating expense for which insufficient funds remain shall be approved by
City Council. The budget shall be adopted in the manner provided for by
ordinance and may be modified during the year only by ordinance of City
Council. Council may, in its discretion, adopt separate budgets for capital
expenditures or other specific purposes.
(`95 Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 79-10, passed 12-18-79; Am. Ord. 23-96, passed - -
96; Am. Ord. 16-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.03 EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   All expenditures of city funds or city controlled funds shall be made by any
form of payment described in §
36.08.
(`95 Code, § 1-5-3) (Am. Ord. 84-31, passed 12-18-84; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-
9-17; Am. Ord. 018-23, passed 9-12-23)
§ 36.04 QUARTERLY FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   The Director of Finance shall prepare a quarterly report showing all
receipts and expenditures during the quarter as well as the balances in all
city accounts. A copy of this report shall be given to each Council member and
the Mayor. Following its acceptance, it shall become a public record and shall
be on file in the office of the Director of Finance.
(`95 Code, § 1-5-4) (Am. Ord. 02-02, passed 3- -02; Am. Ord. 27-08, passed 9-
23-08; Am. Ord. 14- 17, passed 5-9-17)
Statutory reference:
   Publication of quarterly statements required by state law, S.C. Code § 5-21-
50
§ 36.05 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The City Council shall provide for an annual audit of all city financial
records and transactions. The audit shall be made by a certified public
accountant or firm of accountants who have no personal interest, direct or
indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the municipal government or any of its
officers. The report of the audit shall be filed in the office of the Director
of Finance as a public record and shall be made available for public
inspection.
(`95 Code, § 1-5-5) ( Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
Statutory reference:
   Independent annual audits, S.C. Code § 5-7-240
§ 36.06 UNRESERVED FUND BALANCE.
    Per the Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement #54, there are
five components of fund balance: nonspendable, restricted, committed, assigned,
and unassigned. The City of Folly Beach shall maintain combined unassigned,
committed, and assigned fund balances (unreserved fund balance) for the purpose
of securing and/or maintaining an excellent credit rating, meeting seasonal
cash flow shortfalls, having funds available in the event of a disaster, and
funding the needs of the city in the event of an emergency. The unreserved fund
balance for the general fund shall be a minimum of 30% of the previous year's
audited total general fund actual expenditures exclusive of bond or other
financed purchases. This unreserved fund balance, or any part thereof, shall
only be used for seasonal cash flow shortfalls, in the event of a disaster as
declared by the Mayor, or to fund needs of the city in the event of an
unforeseen emergency. This use of the unreserved fund balance, or any part
thereof, shall require a two-thirds vote of City Council. Excess unreserved
fund balance funds above the minimum 30% shall be available to be invested in
accordance with the City of Folly Beach Investment of Funds Policy as adopted
by City Council.
(Ord. 16-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5- 9-17; Am. Ord. 013-23,
passed 6-13-23)
§ 36.07 LITIGATION EXPENSES.
   The City Administrator has the authority to expend up to $20,000 upon the
recommendation and justification of the City Attorney in writing for the
purpose of employing expert witnesses, hiring alternate attorneys, scheduling
depositions, and related preparation for litigation in any legal matter which
involves the City of Folly Beach General Government or Utilities.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.08 FORMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Methods of payment. The City of Folly Beach may accept or offer
payment by any of the following methods for all charges due to or due from the
city:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   Check;
      (3)   Bank draft;
      (4)   Money order;
      (5)   Bank card or credit card;
      (6)   Electronic funds transfer.
   (B)   Service charge.  For forms of payment other than cash or check, the
city may add a charge, not to exceed 4% of the original amount due, in order to
recoup charges made to the city by the payment processor.
   (C)   Agreement for services.  The City Administrator or Director of Finance
are authorized to determine the specific credit cards, bank cards, and
electronic transfers that will be accepted under this section, as well as to
contract with a bank or credit card vendor for acceptance of bank cards or
credit cards.
(Ord. 24-14, passed 11-11-14; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17; Ord. 018-23,
passed 9-12-23)
PURCHASING PROCEDURE
§ 36.15 ETHICS.
   (A)   Financial interest. Any purchase order or contract within the purview
of this chapter in which any agent, officer, or employee of the city is
financially interested, directly or indirectly, shall be void except that
before the execution of a purchase order or contract, the Council shall have
the authority to waive compliance with this section when it finds such action
to be in the best interests of the city.
   (B)   Rebates, gifts, gratuities, kickbacks. Every officer and employee of
the city is prohibited from accepting directly or indirectly from any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any such contract is or might be awarded
any rebate, gift, money, or anything of value whatsoever, except where given
for the use and benefit of the city or where accepted with the express consent
of Council.
   (C)   No person shall offer, give or agree to give or agree to give any
employee or officer nor shall any employee or officer solicit, demand, accept
or agree to accept from another person a gratuity, kickback, or offer of
employment in connection with any decision, approval, disapproval,
recommendation, preparation, or any part of a program requirement or a purchase
request, influencing the content of any specification or purchasing standard.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-27-2002; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.16 INFORMAL PURCHASING AND BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purchase orders shall be used for all purchases more than of $400. For
all purchases under $400, a payment voucher or request for check shall be
submitted, signed by the department head with all receipts attached. For small
one time purchases of less than $400, petty cash may be used if approved by the
Mayor, City Administrator, or Finance Director.
   (B)   When the value of purchases for supplies, services, goods or
construction does not exceed $1,000, a limited purchase order (LPO) shall be
used. The LPO shall be signed by the department head certifying that each
transaction is appropriate and insuring that no abuse or unauthorized use has
occurred. No other signature is required on these transactions.
   (C)    When the value of purchases for supplies, services, goods or
construction is estimated to be in excess of $1,000 and less than $5,000, and
the amount for the purchase has been approved in the current fiscal year’s
budget, a Standard Purchase Order (SPO) shall be signed by the department head
certifying that each transaction is appropriate and insuring no abuse or
unauthorized use has occurred. The purchase order shall then be signed by one
of the following, Mayor, City Administrator, Director of Finance, or
Procurement Manager.
   (D)   When the value of purchases for supplies, services, goods, or
construction is estimated to be in excess of $5,000 and less than $10,000, and
the amount for the purchase has been approved in the current fiscal year’s
budget, at least two oral quotes shall be obtained by the department head. The
names of the vendors and the solicited quotations shall be listed on the face
of the purchase order. If the vendor selected by the department head is not the
lowest cost, a statement of reason must be provided as to how the selected
vendor has provided the most advantageous agreement with the city.The
department head shall sign the purchase order and submit it along with all
supporting documentation to one of the following for signature: Mayor, City
Administrator, or Director of Finance.
   (E)   When the value of purchases for supplies, services, or construction is
estimated to be in excess of $10,000 and less than $20,000, and the amount for
the purchase has been approved in the current fiscal year’s budget, purchases
shall be made by obtaining written competitive quotations or bids from vendors
unless the goods or services are available under state contract as awarded by
the State Budget and Control Board, Division of Material Management. If three
bids are unable to be obtained a statement must be included with the purchase
order as to the reasons why. The names of the vendors and the solicited
quotations shall be listed on the face of the purchase order. The recommended
award, along with a copy of the purchase order, shall be submitted to the City
Administrator or the Finance Director for review and authorization. If the
vendor selected by the department head is not the lowest cost, a statement of
justification must be provided on the purchase order or as an attachment as to
how the selected vendor has provided the most advantageous agreement with the
city. If the City Administrator or the Finance Director, after reviewing the
recommended award, finds that the contract materially deviates from the current
fiscal year budget requirements in amount or activity and is outside of the
department head’s fiscal authority the award will go before Council to either
approve or reject the award. If the City Administrator or the Finance Director,
after reviewing the recommended award, is satisfied with the process and all
submitted documentation, then the purchase order shall be signed by two of the
following, Mayor, City Administrator or Finance Director.
   (F)   All purchases and contracts and goods or services in excess of $20,000
shall be made in accordance with following competitive formal bidding
procedures, unless the goods or services are available under state contract as
awarded by the State Budget and Control Board, Division of Material Management.
All vendors and their bids shall be listed on the face of the purchase order.
The recommended award, along with a copy of the purchase order, shall be placed
on the City Council meeting agenda for Council consideration. Council shall
have the authority to award or reject the recommended award of bid.
   (G)   The city may also obtain goods and services from an awarded bidder in
a competitive bidding process utilized within the preceding six months by
another political subdivision of the state for substantially the same goods or
services when the City Administrator has good reason to believe that the
awarded bidder is the lowest qualified bidder at the time the city obtains such
goods and services.
   (H)   Purchase orders shall not be artificially divided, fragmented, or
structured so as to constitute a purchase under this section or to circumvent
the requirements or intent of this chapter.
   (I)   No purchase shall be made until it is determined by the department
heads that such funds are available for the purchase and an appropriate
purchase order is completed and signed by all necessary approving authorities..
   (J)   Incomplete purchase orders will not be accepted.
   (K)   All expenditures, except emergency expenditures as determined by the
City Administrator, shall cease as of June 1 of each fiscal year. All invoices
for all purchases must be submitted to the Director of Finance by June 30 of
each fiscal year. Department heads will be held accountable for any invoices
not submitted by said date.
   (L)   The City Administrator may adopt other procedures for:
      (1)   Small purchases such as the use of petty cash;
      (2)   Charge accounts; or
      (3)   Request for payment vouchers.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-27-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 9-14-04; Am. Ord. 04-09,
passed 2-24-09; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17; Am. Ord. 012-25, passed 9-9-25)
§ 36.17 FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Advertising; bidders’ list.
      (1)   A notice inviting bids shall be published at least once in one or
more public written communication mediums with a logical target audience for
the solicitation at least ten business days preceding the last day set for the
receipt of proposals. The notice shall include a general description of the
goods or services to be purchased, shall state where bid blanks and
specifications may be secured, and shall specify the time and place for opening
of bids.
      (2)   (a)   All responsible, interested suppliers may be added to the
bidders’ list at their request.
         (b)   The City Administrator, or his or her designee, may also solicit
sealed bids by sending prospective bidders a copy of the written notice
inviting bids, or other notice that will acquaint them with the proposed
purchase.
   (B)   Bid deposits.
      (1)   When it seems necessary by the City Administrator, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. The amount of the
deposits shall be 5% of the bids and shall be in the form of a certified check
or bond.
      (2)   Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to the return of surety
required by the Administrator within 30 calendar days after opening of bids.
      (3)   Upon the failure of a successful bidder to enter into a contract
within seven calendar days after the city tenders the proposed contract, the
bidder shall forfeit the bid deposit.
      (4)   Bids received after the bid date and time indicated on the
invitation to bid may not be considered unless the delay was due to an error of
the city.
   (C)   Submission and opening of bids.
      (1)   All bids shall be submitted to the Municipal Clerk by hand delivery
or mail in a sealed condition, or electronic means as described in the notice
for bids with proper identification contained on the envelope or on t he
electronic file containing the bid.
      (2)   Bids shall be submitted at the designated place no later than the
time stated in the public notice inviting bids.
      (3)   Bids shall be opened at a public meeting at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (4)   A tabulation of all bids received shall be made available for
public inspection.
   (D)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Proposals shall be evaluated by the responsible department head,
City Administrator, and Director of Finance using only the criteria stated in
the request and there must be adherence to any weighting that has been
previously assigned. Once evaluation is complete, all responsive offerors shall
be ranked from most advantageous to least advantageous to the city, considering
only the evaluation factors stated in the request. If price is not an initial
evaluation factor, negotiations shall be conducted with the top ranked
responsive offeror for performance of the contract at a price that is fair and
reasonable to the city. Should the City Administrator or Mayor be unable to
negotiate a contract at a price that is fair and reasonable to the city,
negotiations shall be formally terminated with the top ranked responsive
offeror and negotiations commenced with the second most advantageous responsive
offeror, and then the third and so on until a satisfactory contract has been
negotiated. In conducting negotiations, there must be no disclosure of any
information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
      (2)   The City Administrator, or his or her designee, shall notify the
successful bidder of the award made by the City Council.
      (3)   The contract shall be awarded to the responsive offeror whose
proposal is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the city,
taking into consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the
city request. The contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is
made. The Administrator shall notify the successful bidder of the award made by
the City Council. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition to
price, the Administrator and the City Administration shall consider such
factors as:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to provide the
services required;
         (b)   The capability of the bidder to perform and the contractor to
provide the services promptly, or within the time specified without delay or
interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the services;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the suppliers or
contractual services to the particular use required; and
         (h)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid by the
bidder, if any.
      (4)   When the award is not made to the lowest bidder, a full and
complete statement of the reasons for the action shall be prepared by the City
Administrator and filed with the other documents relating to the transaction.
      (5)   If all bids received are for the same total amount or unit price,
quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to a bidder
whose principal place of business is within the city, or if not within the
city, within the county, if not within the county, then within the state:
      (6)   If no bids are received, quotations may be solicited by the City
Administrator in the manner set forth in §
36.16(E).
      (7)   The City Council may reject any or all bids, in whole or in part,
in order to protect any public interest.
   (E)   Bonds.
      (1)   To protect the interest of the city, the successful bidder for a
contract for conservation, improvements or repair shall be required to furnish
a performance bond and a payment bond in the amount of 100% on the proposed
contract if deemed necessary by the City Administrator.
      (2)   If the bonds are not provided within ten calendar days of the award
of the bid, the award shall be void.
(`95 Code, § 1-5-12) (Ord. 80-14, passed 11-4-80; Am. Ord. 86-37, passed 11-18-
86; Am. Ord. 06-99, passed 2-16-99; Am. Ord. 09-99, passed 3-9-99; Am. Ord. 12-
02, passed 8-27-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 9-14-04; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-
9-17)
§ 36.18 SOLE SOURCE PURCHASING.
   (A)   A contract may be awarded for supplies, services, professional
services, or construction without formal competitive bidding or other
competitive purchasing in accordance with §§
36.15 through
36.20. Any request by a department head that a procurement be restricted to one
potential source shall be accompanied by a letter from the using department
signed by the department head stating why no other source will be suitable or
acceptable to meet the needs. A contract may be awarded for a property, supply,
service, or construction item without competition when the City Administrator
and Director of Finance determine in writing that there is only one source for
the required property, supply, service, or construction item or that the
proposed award to a single source is a permitted, non-competitive procurement
as established herein. A sole source purchase may not be made if a reasonable
alternative solution exists.
   (B)   The department head or City Administrator or Finance Director shall
negotiate with the single supplier, to the extent practicable, to obtain the
most advantageous contract to the city.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-27-2002; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 9-14-04; Am. Ord. 14-17,
passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.19 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In the case of an emergency which threatens the public health, safety or
welfare of the city, the City Administrator, subject to the approval of at
least four Council persons, shall have the authority to suspend the formal
competitive bidding procedures herein described to the extent required to meet
the emergency. Where possible, the approval shall be in writing. If this is not
possible due to the nature of the emergency, the approval shall be reduced in
writing within a reasonable time. A written determination of the basis for the
emergency and for the selection of the contractor shall be provided by the City
Administrator and included in the contract file.
(`95 Code, § 1-5-15) (Ord. 80-14, passed 11-4-80; Am. Ord. 86-37, passed 11-18-
86; Am. Ord. 06-99, passed 2-16-99; Am. Ord. 09-99, passed 3-9-99; Am. Ord. 12-
02, passed 8-27-2002; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.20 FILING OF A PROTEST.
   (A)   An interested party may protest the award of a bid, the proposed award
of a bid, or a solicitation for supplies, services, professional services, or
construction by filing with the City Administrator, within ten days of the
award of the bid or contract, the following information in writing:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the protester;
      (2)   Signature of the protester or the protester’s representative;
      (3)   Identification of the bid under protest;
      (4)   A detailed statement of the legal and factual grounds of the
protest, including copies of relevant documents; and
      (5)   The form of relief requested.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall have authority, prior to the commencement
of an action in court concerning the controversy, to settle and resolve a
protest by an aggrieved bidder, offeror, or a contractor, actual or
prospective, concerning the solicitation or award of a bid or contract. If the
protest is not resolved by mutual agreement, the City Administrator shall issue
a decision in writing within ten calendar days. The decision shall:
      (1)   State the reasons for the action taken; and
      (2)   Inform the protester of the right to request a review of the
decision by City Council.
   (C)   If the protestor requests a review by City Council the matter shall be
placed on the agenda for City Council consideration at the next Council meeting
scheduled after the request is received.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-27-2002; Am. Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.21 SOLICITATION OR AWARDS IN VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   If prior to award of a contract, it is determined that a solicitation
or proposed award of a contract is in violation of this chapter, then the
solicitation or proposed award shall be cancelled; or revised to comply with
the law and awarded in a manner that complies with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   If after an award of a contract, it is determined that the
solicitation or award is in violation of this chapter, and if the person
awarded the contract has not acted fraudulently or in bad faith; then the
contract may be ratified and affirmed, provided it is determined that doing so
is in the best interest of the city, or the contract may be terminated.
However, if the person awarded the contract has acted fraudulently or in bad
faith the contract may be declared null and void; or the contract may be
ratified and affirmed if such action is in the best interest of the city.
Ratification and affirmation of a contract that is in violation of this chapter
will not prejudice the city's right to seek damages arising from the failure to
comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.22 SPECIFIC CITY PURCHASING AND PROCUREMENT POLICY EXCLUSIONS.
   The hiring of municipal judges, lobbyists, attorneys, including the City
Attorney, or any product or service provider exempted by State law are exempt
from the purchasing procedure in §§
36.15 et seq. Department heads should solicit multiple responses for
comparison, but they shall not be subjected to procurement procedures.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.23 MINOR INFORMALITIES AND IRREGULARITIES IN BIDS.
   A minor informality or irregularity does not affect the relative standing
of, or is otherwise prejudicial to bidders. A minor informality or irregularity
is some immaterial variation from the exact requirements of the invitation for
bids having no effect or merely a trivial or negligible effect on total bid
price, quality, quantity, or delivery of the supplies or performance of the
contract. The City Administrator shall either give the bidder the opportunity
to cure any deficiency resulting from a minor informality or irregularity in a
bid or waive any such deficiency when it is to the advantage of the city. Such
communication or determination shall be in writing.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.24 CANCELLATION OF INVITATION FOR BIDS.
   An invitation for bids or other solicitation may be cancelled, or any or all
bids may be rejected in whole or parts when it is in the best interest of the
city. Documentation supporting the reason(s) for rejection shall be made a part
of the solicitation file.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.25 BID REJECTIONS.
   The City Council may reject any or all bids, in whole or in part, in order
to protect any public interest.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.26 PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Procurement information shall be a public record to the extent required by
S.C. § 30-4-10 et seq. (The Freedom of Information Act). Commercial or
financial information obtained in response to a "Request for Proposals" or any
type of bid solicitation, or "Request for Quotations", which is privileged and
confidential shall not be disclosed as well as other information which may be
exempt from disclosure. Privileged and confidential information is information
in specific detail not customarily released to the general public, the release
of which might cause harm to the competitive position of the party supplying
the information or constitute an unreasonable invasion of privacy. Examples of
this type of information include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Customer lists;
   (B)   Design recommendations and identification of prospective problem
areas;
   (C)   Design concepts, including methods and procedures;
   (D)   Biographical data or other personal information about key employees of
the bidder;
   (E)   Evaluative documents pre-decisional in nature such as inter- or intra-
agency memoranda containing technical evaluations and recommendations.
   (F)   Items marked as proprietary by a bidder are not subject to public
access under any other provisions.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 36.27 MODIFICATIONS/CHANGE ORDERS/PRICE ADJUSTMENTS.
   Every contract modification, change order, or contract price adjustment
under a City Council awarded contract in excess of 5% of the contract amount,
or an aggregate of $99,999, whichever is the less, shall be subject to prior
approval by City Council, after receiving a report from the City Administrator
or Director of Finance as to the effect of the contract modification, change
order, or contract price adjustment on the total project budget or the total
contract budget. Additional funds in excess of allocated and budgeted amounts
must be authorized by City Council prior to execution of a change order,
contract modification, or adjustment. Lesser amounts which do not exceed 5% of
the total contract price, or an aggregate of $99,999, whichever is less, may be
approved by the City Administrator when sufficient funds are available and the
scope and purpose of the project are not significantly altered.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
GREEN PURCHASING
§ 36.40 GREEN PURCHASING.
   If practical and economical to the city, environmentally preferred products
and services should be solicited with preference given to them if all
conditions are met within the Purchasing and Procurement Policy herein. The
South Carolina Green Purchasing Initiative Environmentally Preferred Purchasing
Policy Checklist shall be used in this assessment.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
GRANTS ADMINISTRATION
§ 36.50 GRANTS ADMINISTRATION.
   The city has limited monetary and staff resources, so it must be judicious
in its selection and administration of outside grant funding and the current
and ongoing requirements it takes on as a result of receiving this funding. The
City Finance Policies and Procedures Handbook provides guidelines for
evaluation and selection of outside grant funding.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
BUDGET ADJUSTMENTS
§ 36.60 DEPARTMENT BUDGET APPROPRIATION ADJUSTMENTS.
   The Mayor is authorized to transfer up to 10% of budgeted appropriations
between line items within the financial responsibility centers of the budget,
without prior approval of the City Council, except for expenditures classified
as capital, salary, or employee benefits. A budget appropriation adjustment
request must be completed and all signatures present prior to the end of the
fiscal year in which the transfer is to be completed.
(Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
MUNICIPAL FUNDS INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 36.70 POLICY DEFINITION.
   It is the policy of the City of Folly Beach, (hereinafter collectively
referred to as the ("city") to invest public funds in a prudent manner,
conforming to all laws of the State of South Carolina regarding the investment
of such funds, in order to provide (in order of importance):
   (A)   Safety. A prudent and mitigated level of risk of funds invested;
   (B)   Liquidity. A necessary level of liquidity of funds to ensure cash flow
demands are met; and
   (C)   Return on investment. A maximized return on investment.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.71 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to the investment of any financial
asset of the city. The Finance Director is authorized to invest the city's
funds in accordance with S.C. Code § 6-5-10 Investment of Funds by Political
Subdivisions and § 11-1-60 Investment of Public Funds in Savings and Loan
Associations and Building and Loan Associations.
   (B)   According to S.C. Code § 6-5-10, the governing body of any
municipality may invest money subject to their control and jurisdiction. Those
investing public funds are trustees and, therefore, fiduciaries subject to
prudent investor standards. When investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring,
exchanging, selling, and managing public funds, a trustee shall act with care,
skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing, that a
prudent person with familiarity with those matters would use in the conduct of
funds of the like character with like aims, to safeguard the principal and
maintain the liquidity needs of the city. The actions of the Finance Director
or other city appointed investment officers, in the performance of their duties
as manager of public funds shall be evaluated using the following "prudent
person" standard applied in the context of managing the overall portfolio.
Investments shall be made, not for speculation, but for investment, considering
the probable safety of the city's capital as well as probable income to be
derived. Investment officers acting in accordance with written procedures and
the investment policy exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security's credit risk or market price
changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion
and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.72 POLICY OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives of the city's investment activities in priority order
shall be:
   (A)   Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment
program. Investments of the city shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The city shall
seek to safeguard principal by a careful examination of credit risk and market
risk of individual investments.
      (1)   Credit risk. The risk of loss due to failure of an issuer of a
security. Credit risk shall be mitigated by investing in safe institutions and
by diversifying the fund so that the failure of any one issuer would not unduly
harm the city's principal.
      (2)   Market risk. The risk of market value fluctuations due to overall
changes in the general level of interest rates. Market risk shall be mitigated
by limiting the weighted average maturity of the city's fund to less than five
years.
   (B)   Liquidity. The city investment portfolio will remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating expenditure requirements which
might be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The city investment portfolio shall be designed
with the objective of attaining a benchmark rate of return throughout budgetary
and economic cycles taking into consideration the city investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio. Whenever
possible, consistent with risk limitations and prudent investment principles,
the city shall make an effort to achieve returns at the market average rate of
return for the investment type.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.73 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   State delegation. The authority to manage the city's investment
program is derived from S.C. Code § 6-5-10 Investment of Funds by Political
Subdivisions.
   (B)   Investment approval. Investment of city funds requires an approved
City Council Resolution outlining the amount, type/description of investment,
term, and funding source.
   (C)   Management responsibility. Management of the city's investment
programs is delegated to the Finance Director. As administrator of the city's
financial program, the Finance Director is assigned full discretionary
management of the city's investments and shall report all transactions directly
to the City Administrator and Mayor in a timely manner. The Finance Director
shall maintain all written agreements, wire transfer agreements, banking
service contracts, and collateral/depository agreements. The procedures shall
further include explicit delegation of authority to appointed persons
responsible for investment transactions as authorized by the Finance Director.
   (D)   Authorization. No person may engage in an investment transaction of
city funds except as provided under the terms of this policy.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.74 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Delegates and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain
from personal financial activities that could conflict with proper execution of
the city investment program, or which could impair their ability to make
impartial investment decisions. All city employees with delegated investment
authority shall disclose to the City Administrator and Finance Director all
financial interests in financial institutions and or investments that are or
could be perceived as a conflict of interest in making impartial investment
decisions immediately upon recognition of occurrence.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.75 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   From the city's perspective, special care must be taken to ensure that
the list of instruments includes only those allowed by law and those that local
investments managers are trained and competent to handle. No public deposit
shall be made except in a qualified public depository as established by South
Carolina State law. The Finance Director will not give full discretionary
authority to external investment managers. The Finance Director will not use
external investment managers to purchase or sell securities or manage the
city's portfolio unless specifically approved by the City Council with a
contract signed by the Mayor and reviewed by the City Attorney.
   (B)   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 11-1-60, the state or any department,
institution, agency, district, county, municipality or other political
subdivision of the state or any political or public corporation of the state or
of the United States may invest its funds or the monies in its custody or
possession eligible for investment in the shares of any federal savings and
loan association or in the shares of any building and loan association
organized and existing under the laws of this state when such shares are
insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation and also in bonds
or debentures issued by any federal home loan bank or in the consolidated bonds
or debentures issued by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
   (C)   S.C. Code § 6-5-10 limits the investment vehicles available to local
agencies. The city investment policy further restricts the permitted
investments to those listed below:
      (1)   Obligations of the United States and its agencies, the principal
and interest of which is fully guaranteed by the United States. United States
Treasury Bills, Notes and Bonds or those for which the full faith and credit of
the United States are pledged for payment of principal and interest: A rated or
better offerings.
      (2)   Federal agency or United States government sponsored securities
including those issued by or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by
federal agencies or United States Government sponsored enterprises. Obligations
in this category referred to as "federal agencies" included but are not limited
to issues by the Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Mortgage
Association, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation: A rated or better
offerings.
      (3)   Savings and loan associations to the extent that the same are
insured by an agency of the federal government: A rated or better offerings.
      (4)   Certificates of deposit. Certificates of deposit are fixed-term
investments that are required to be collateralized depending on the specific
security pledged as security. The city shall deposit funds only with financial
institutions that operate in the United States of America. The Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) must insure these institutions.
      (5)   General obligations of any of the counties, political subdivisions
or municipal corporations of any state of the United States of America: A rated
or better offerings.
      (6)   Revenue bonds of any of the counties, political subdivisions or
municipal corporations of any state of the United States of America; if the
statute pursuant to which such revenue bonds are issued shall declare them to
be legal investments: A rated or better offerings.
      (7)   Stable value money market mutual funds. These types of investments
are to be used primarily as overnight or short-term sweep accounts for interest
and maturities with the city's custodial agent and the city's bank accounts.
      (8)   S.C. Code § 6-6-30 allows for the sale of investments within the
State of South Carolina Local Government Investment Pool (SCLGIP) to all
political subdivisions with consent of the governing bodies. Money invested
with SCLGIP is pooled with state money in order to earn the maximum rate of
return possible in a manner consistent with sound investment practices.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.76 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-5-15, depositories have duties and
responsibilities toward public monies on deposit that may differ from their
duties relative to nonpublic funds. South Carolina law requires public funds to
be collateralized; that is, the depository must secure its public fund accounts
by maintaining with the agent of the depository securities having a market
value consistent with the current state's policy. If a depository uses
mortgage-backed securities as collateral for public funds, the market value of
the securities must be consistent with the state's requirement. An independent
third party with whom the entity has a current custodial agreement will always
hold collateral. A clearly marked evidence of ownership, i.e., safekeeping
receipt, must be supplied to the city and retained.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.77 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed by delivery vs. payment (DVP) to ensure that securities are deposited
in an eligible financial institution prior to release of the city funds.
   (B)   Safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent third-party
custodian selected by the city. The custodian will provide safekeeping receipts
in the city's name and provide an annual financial report.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.78 DIVERSIFICATION.
   (A)   The purpose of diversification is to reduce overall portfolio risk
while attaining benchmark average return. Diversification will prevent over
concentration in a specific maturity sector and prevent reliance on riskier
instruments.
   (B)   The city will diversify its investments by security type and
institution. With the exception of U.S. Treasury securities and authorized
pool, i.e. SCLGIP, no more that 50% of the city's total
investment portfolio will be invested in a single security type, and no more
than 10% of the city's total investment portfolio will be invested in any
specific security.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.79 MATURITIES.
   To protect public funds from market yield losses resulting from rising
interest rates, the city will limit the maximum term of maturity. To the extent
possible, the city will attempt to match its investments with anticipated cash
flow requirements. In order to maintain liquidity, no more than 70% of the
portfolio will have a maturity in excess of one year. Unless matched to
specific cash flow, the city will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than five years from the date of purchase.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.80 INTERNAL CONTROLS.
   (A)   The Finance Director is responsible for ensuring compliance with the
city's investment policies as well as for establishing systems of internal
control to ensure the assets of the city are protected from loss, theft, or
misuse and to regulate the activities of delegated appointees.
   (B)   The internal control's structure shall address the following points:
      (1)   Custodial safekeeping;
      (2)   Avoidance of physical delivery of securities;
      (3)   Clear delegation of authority to appointees;
      (4)   Written confirmation of transactions for investments and wire
transfers; and
      (5)   The city's external auditor will assure City Council that the
portfolio complies with policies and procedures during the annual independent
audit.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.81 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The investment portfolio shall be designed with the objective of
obtaining a rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles,
commensurate with the investment constraints herein and the cash flow needs of
the city.
   (B)   Market yield (benchmark). While the investment policy is designed to
provide control, the yield objective is also important. The city's investment
strategy is active. The Finance Director will identify a comparable benchmark
for each type of investment within the city's investment portfolio to determine
whether proper market yields are being achieved. Given the strategy, the city
shall strive to achieve returns at the market-average rate of return. The
market-average of return is generally defined as the average return on three-
month U.S. Treasury Bills, or the South Carolina Local Government Investment
Pool administered by South Carolina State Treasurer. These indices are
considered benchmarks for lower risk investment transactions and comprise a
minimum standard for the portfolio's rate of return. The investment program
shall seek to augment returns above this threshold, consistent with authorized
type, maturity, collateralization, and diversification limitations identified
herein.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.82 REPORTING.
   (A)   The Finance Director will include the city's overall investment
performance within the City Council's Quarterly Financial Reports. The City
Council shall annually review the Finance Director's overall administration of
the city's investment program in conjunction with the annual citywide financial
external audit. To ensure compliance with GASB Statement 40 disclosure of
deposit and investment risks as listed in division (B)(6) below, will be
included in the annual external audit report.
   (B)   The annual audit report will contain the following information that is
subject to this investment policy:
      (1)   The type of investment, name of the issuer, date of maturity, par
and cost in each investment;
      (2)   The weighted average maturity of the investments;
      (3)   Coupon, discount, or earnings rate;
      (4)   Par value, amortized book value, and market value;
      (5)   Percentage of the portfolio represented by each investment
category; and
      (6)   A description of the compliance with the statement of investment
policy.
(Ord. 16-21, passed 6-8-21)
§ 36.99 SANCTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Sanctions. The Mayor may impose the following sanctions of any
employee for violations of this chapter:
      (1)   Oral or written reprimand;
       (2)   Suspension; or
       (3)   Termination.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   The value of anything transferred or received in breach of this
chapter by an employee or officer be recovered from either.
      (2)   A person who contracts for or purchases supplies, equipment,
services, professional services, or construction in a manner the person knows
or should know to be contrary to these requirements is liable for all costs and
damages to the city arising out of the violation. §§
36.15 through
36.20 is liable for all costs and damages to the city arising out of the
violation.
      (3)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of these provisions
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefore shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned for a period not
exceeding 30 days or be both so fined and imprisoned.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-27-2002; Ord. 14-17, passed 5-9-17)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL
Section
   
37.01   Indemnification
§ 37.01 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Board members, commission members, public officials, officers and
employees shall be indemnified, defended and held harmless by the city from and
against all liabilities, expenses of investigation, attorneys' fees, courts
costs, judgements and amounts paid in settlement which may be imposed upon or
reasonably incurred or paid by the official or employee in connection with or
resulting from any claim made against him or her, or any action, suit,
proceeding or investigation in which he or she may be involved by reason of him
or her being or having been the official or employee of the city, whether or
not he or she continues to be the official or employee at the time of the
claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation.
   (B)   The indemnification shall not extend to any of the following:
      (1)   Any liability or cost with respect to any matter as to which any
aforementioned individual is finally found to be guilty of bad faith or actual
malice or wilful and wanton misconduct, recklessness or gross negligence in the
performance of his or her duties, or the course and scope of his or her
employment.
      (2)   Any payment, expense or cost arising out off a settlement of any
claim, action, suit or proceeding, unless:
         (a)   The settlement shall be approved by the court having
jurisdiction over the claim, action, suit or proceeding, with express knowledge
of the existence of the indemnification provided hereby; or
         (b)   The settlement shall have been made upon the written opinion of
independent legal counsel selected by the Council, to the effect that there is
no reasonable ground for any finding of bad faith, or of actual malice or
wilful or wanton misconduct or recklessness, or gross negligence on the part of
any of the aforementioned individuals and that an anticipated cost of the
settlement will not substantially exceed the estimated cost and expense of
defending the claim, action, suit or proceeding to a final conclusion.
      (3)   Any liability or judgment paid by the city itself;
      (4)   The cost of independent legal representation in any action, suit or
proceeding if the city offers or otherwise indicates its willingness to provide
a legal defense with respect to the claim, action, suit, proceeding or
investigation.
      (5)   Any attorney's fees, expenses or costs incurred by any of the
aforementioned individuals in any action, suit, proceeding or investigation
instituted by any of the aforementioned individuals against the city.
   (C)   In the event any aforementioned individual shall prevail in any
action, suit or proceeding against him or her; any award of attorneys' fees,
costs or expenses in favor of that individual shall be surrendered and assigned
to city.
(Ord. 15-98, passed 7-7-98)
CHAPTER 38: HOSPITALITY TAX
Section
   
38.01   Municipal hospitality tax
   
38.02   Payment of municipal hospitality tax
   
38.03   Account and distribution of funds
   
38.04   Inspections, audits and administration
 
   
38.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Beach preservation fee, see §
151.39
§ 38.01 MUNICIPAL HOSPITALITY TAX.
   A uniform tax equal to 2% is hereby imposed on the gross proceeds derived
from the sale of prepared meals, food, and beverages sold in establishments, or
sales of prepared meals, food and beverages sold in establishments licensed for
on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages, beer or wine, and is imposed on
every person engaged in the business of furnishing food and beverage services,
whether dine in or take out, within the city. The local hospitality tax shall
be imposed on all food and beverages prepared or modified by restaurants,
convenience stores, fast food outlets, grocery stores, or other establishments
within the town.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 20-17, passed 7-11-17)
§ 38.02 PAYMENT OF MUNICIPAL HOSPITALITY TAX.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected from any patron when he
or she tenders payment for his or her meal, food, or beverage and shall be held
in trust for the benefit of the city until the same is paid to the county as
herein after provided. Every establishment subject to this hospitality tax
shall, on the date or within the time period hereinafter prescribed, make a
return to the county on forms provided by the office delineating gross proceeds
of sales of prepared meals, food, and beverages for the previous month, and the
amount of the tax due by virtue of this chapter. At the time the return is
filed, the full amount of any tax due hereunder shall be remitted. Taxes and
required reports shall be submitted to the county by the twentieth day of the
month and shall cover sales of the previous month. Any taxes not timely
remitted shall be subject to a penalty of 25%. The failure to collect from
patrons shall not relieve any establishment subject to this chapter from making
the required remittance.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 20-17, passed 7-11-17)
§ 38.03 ACCOUNT AND DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   A special fund is to be established, to be known as the Hospitality
Tax Fund, into which all monies remitted to the city under this chapter shall
be deposited. Any and all interest as may accrue in the Hospitality Tax Fund
shall be distributed in accordance with this section.
   (B)   All Hospitality Tax generated shall be dedicated to the General Fund
for the purpose of maintaining tourist-related facilities and infrastructure
and the attendant police, fire and emergency medical services.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. passed 19-04, passed 9-28-04; Am. Ord.
12-08, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 30-11, passed 12-13-11; Am. Ord. 05-13, passed
4-2-13; Am. Ord. 19-14, passed 9-9-14; Am. Ord. 04-15, passed 6-9-15; Am. Ord.
33-16, passed 10-18-16; Am. Ord. 20-17, passed 7-11-17)
§ 38.04 INSPECTIONS, AUDITS AND ADMINISTRATION.
   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the Business
License Official or other authorized agent of the city is empowered to enter
upon the premises of any person or entity subject to this chapter and to make
inspections, and examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful for
any person or entity to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books
and records during normal business hours upon 24 hours written notice. In the
event an audit reveals that false information has been filed by the remitter,
the cost of the audit shall be added to the correct amount of fees determined
to be due. The Business License Official may make systematic inspections of all
establishments within the city to ensure compliance with this chapter. Records
of inspections shall not be deemed public records. The Business License
Official shall administer the provisions of this chapter and make reasonable
regulations relating to its administration.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 20-17, passed 7-11-17)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
      (1)   Fail to collect the Municipal Hospitality Tax in connection with
the sale of meals, food, and beverages;
      (2)   Fail to remit to the county or other designee taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter on a monthly basis;
      (3)   Provide false information on the form of return submitted to the
county or other designee;
      (4)   Fail to provide books and records to the city or other authorized
agent for the purpose; of an audit upon 24 hours written notice; or
      (5)   Fail to comply with any other specific provision/requirement of
this chapter.
   (B)   The failure of an establishment subject to this chapter to remit to
the county the taxes required hereunder, as and when due, shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more that $500 or imprisonment for up
to 30 days, or both. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any misrepresentation of
the information required by returns as set forth in this chapter or the failure
to collect or timely remit to the county the taxes imposed by this chapter may
result in the suspension and/or revocation of the business license of the
offending establishment, as may be determined, after a hearing by the Finance
Committee. Appeals shall be governed by the requirements of the county's
business license requirements.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 20-17, passed 7-11-17)
CHAPTER 39: FAIRNESS IN LODGING ACT
Section
   
39.01   Implementation
§ 39.01 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The City of Folly Beach does hereby implement the provisions of the Fairness
in Lodging Act, as found in Article 7 of Title 6 of the South Carolina Code of
Laws.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Act, a one-time civil penalty of $2,000 shall be
assessed for failure to collect and remit local accommodations tax for each
seven days a single rental property was rented.
   (B)   A certified copy of this implementation ordinance shall be provided to
the director of the South Carolina Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 3-14-17)
CHAPTER 40: DUTIES AND POWERS OF CODE OFFICIALS
Section
   
40.01   Code official duties and powers
   
40.02   Inspections
   
40.03   Authorized right-of-entry
   
40.04   Manner of entry
   
40.05   Issuance of search warrant
§ 40.01 CODE OFFICIAL DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   In general any city official charged with administering or enforcing
the city's Code of Ordinances by entering onto private property or into private
buildings, including ordinances regulating the Water System (
Chapter 51), the Sewer System (
Chapter 52), Storm Water Management (
Chapter 53), Septic Systems (
Chapter 55), Fire Prevention and Protection (
Chapter 90), Health and Sanitation (
Chapter 94), Animals (
Chapter 95), Businesses (Chapters
110 to
117), Short Term Rentals (
Chapter 117), Buildings (
Chapter 150), Beach Preservation and Construction (
Chapter 151), Flood Damage Prevention (
Chapter 152), and Zoning (Chapters
160 to
169), including the Licensing Official, Building Official, Zoning
Administrator, Fire Marshall, and their respective deputies, agents, designees,
contractors, or any other appropriately appointed official administering or
enforcing the code (hereinafter collectively referred to as the “code
official”) may exercise the duties and powers granted by this chapter in
addition to, and not to the exclusion of, the duties and powers granted to the
code official in other chapters of the code, in any building code incorporated
into the code or adopted by state law, or as otherwise allowed by local, state
or Federal law. If a code official determines that any of the provisions of the
code that they are enforcing are being violated, he shall enforce the
requirements of the ordinance by any and all lawful means. The code official is
not required to warn a violator before the issuance of an ordinance summons or
the institution of enforcement procedures. The code official officer may invoke
a single course of enforcement or parallel courses of enforcement in his
discretion as the exigencies of the circumstances demand.
   (B)   Administrative and interpretive authority. The code official, with the
consent of the City Administrator, shall have authority as necessary in the
interest of public health, safety and general welfare, to adopt and promulgate
rules and procedures; to interpret and implement the provisions of the
applicable codes; to secure the intent thereof; and to designate requirements
applicable because of local climatic or other conditions. Such rules shall not
have the effect of waiving structural or fire performance requirements
specifically provided for in this code, or of violating accepted engineering
methods involving public safety.
   (C)   Non-exclusive remedy. This chapter does not change, limit, or
otherwise alter any powers, remedies, rights of inspection, rights-of-entry, or
subpoena powers found in any other chapters of the code, in any building code
incorporated into the code or adopted by state law, or as otherwise allowed by
local, state or federal law. The code official, and any other city employee or
agent, will still have the right to rely upon and exercise powers granted by
other code provisions, including but not limited to §§
51.034,
52.018,
53.03,
55.08,
95.45,
110.12,
150.44,
150.120,
151.63, and
169.05-04, and Building Codes adopted pursuant to §§
150.002 and
150.004. In addition, this chapter does not in any way limit public safety
officers' right of entry in the exercise of their police powers or responses to
emergencies with or without a warrant.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 7-10-18)
§ 40.02 INSPECTIONS.
   The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting
structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code. The code
official shall make all of the required inspections, or shall accept reports of
inspection by approved agencies or individuals. All reports of such inspections
shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible officer of such approved
agency or by the responsible individual. The code official is authorized to
engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical
issues that arise, subject to the approval of the City Administrator. The code
official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with
this code. The code official shall keep official records of all business and
activities of the department specified in the provisions of this code. Such
records shall be retained in the official records as long as the building or
structure to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise
provided for by other regulations.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 7-10-18)
§ 40.03 AUTHORIZED RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Subject to the limitations of §
40.04, the code official shall, after proper presentment of identification and
notification, have the right and authority to go onto the grounds of any
premises within the city at any reasonable time:
   (A)   To inspect, observe, measure, sample, test or investigate the building
or property in connection with the review of a permit or license application;
   (B)   To inspect, observe, measure, sample, test or investigate any
condition relating to, or to operate, maintain, or repair any city utility or
facility;
   (C)   To inspect reported conditions;
   (D)   To perform periodic inspections required by any provision of this
code;
   (E)   To assess compliance with any permit, license or approval;
   (F)   To make an inspection or to otherwise enforce any provision of this
code or any ordinance of the city;
   (G)   To meet the scheduled requirements of recorded agreements, such as an
open space management plan;
   (H)   When cause exists to believe that a violation of this code or any city
ordinance was or is being committed;
   (I)   To implement abatement procedures; or
   (J)   For any other reason required by this code.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 7-10-18)
§ 40.04 MANNER OF ENTRY.
   Any entry on private property by a code official is subject to the following
limitations:
   (A)   If the building or property to be inspected is a business open to the
public, the code official may enter and inspect the building or property at any
time the business is occupied by patrons or open for business.
   (B)   If the building or property to be inspected is occupied, the code
official shall present city credentials including photo identification to the
owner or person responsible for the building or property, state the reason for
the inspection, and request consent for entry. If consent is given, the code
official may enter and inspect the property.
   (C)   If the building or property to be inspected is unoccupied, the code
official shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person
having charge or control of the building or property and request consent for
entry. If consent is given, the code official may enter and inspect the
property.
   (D)   Consent to enter buildings or property may be obtained by any means,
including but not limited to written, facsimile, telephonic, or in-person
consent. In addition, any application for a building permit or a business
license shall be deemed to be consent for code officials to enter the building
or property to perform any inspections, measurements, sampling, or other action
required to review and process the application or enforce applicable code
sections. If entry is refused by the holder of a building permit or business
license or otherwise after consent is given, it will be deemed a violation of
this chapter in accord with §§
10.99 and
131.02(A)(1).
   (E)   If entry is refused or if a code official is unable to obtain consent,
the code official shall make no entry unless non-consensual entry is otherwise
permitted under this chapter, but the city shall have recourse to every remedy
provided by law to secure entry, including but not limited to application to
any court of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant or other remedy.
   (F)   If entry is refused or if any person interferes with lawful entry or
inspection of property:
      (1)   After valid consent is obtained, including consent implied by
application for a business license or a building permit;
      (2)   After a search warrant has been issued;
      (3)   When the code officer has authority to inspect or enter property as
set forth below in division (G); or
      (4)   If conditions exist requiring immediate inspection or other action
to protect the public health, safety or welfare, or to preserve property, the
code official is authorized to enter the property with the aid and
accompaniment of law enforcement officer(s). Any person interfering with such
entry will be deemed in violation of this chapter in accord with §§
10.99 and
131.02(A)(1) and will be subject to arrest.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter requires a code official to obtain the
property owner's consent:
      (1)   To an inspection that is conducted while the code official remains
on adjacent public property, such as a public right-of-way, or on other
adjacent property for which consent to entry has been obtained;
      (2)   To enter property in which the city has a written easement for
purposes authorized in the easement instrument;
      (3)   To conduct an abatement procedure with prior notice to the owner
and a chance to be heard. If entry is refused following such a procedure, it
will be deemed a violation of this chapter in accord with §
10.99; or
      (4)   To enter property after a search warrant has been obtained. If
entry is refused following such a procedure, it will be deemed a violation of
this chapter in accord with §
10.99.
   (H)   Notwithstanding the provisions above, whenever it appears to the code
officer of city that conditions exist requiring immediate inspection or other
action to protect the public health, safety or welfare, or to preserve
property, including where the property is unsecured and either unoccupied and
or illegally occupied, the code official is authorized to enter in or upon any
building or property, public or private, without first obtaining the owner's
consent, or when any other circumstance exists making such entry lawful under
the common law.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 7-10-18)
§ 40.05 ISSUANCE OF SEARCH WARRANT.
   (A)   The municipal court judge for the City of Folly Beach is hereby
authorized to issue search warrants upon the application of a code official to
enter any building or property within the city under the terms and conditions
as deemed by the municipal court judge.
   (B)   In order to secure a search warrant, the code official must affirm
that:
      (1)   The relevant ordinance, codes, regulations, or statutes are in
place pertaining to the property;
      (2)   The requesting official has attempted peaceful entry or has sought
permission to enter for the limited purpose of code inspection or abatement;
      (3)   Permission has been denied or could not be obtained;
      (4)   There exist facts and circumstances that lead the affiant to
believe, based upon his education, training or experience, that an inspection
is appropriate, a code violation exists, or there is imminent danger to an
occupant;
      (5)   The stated object and purpose of the search must be adequately
specific so that the reasonableness of the scope of the search is not expanded
past regulatory purposes; and
      (6)   The search warrant shall not be used as a pretext for a criminal
search.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer must accompany the code official to the
premises to assist in the safe execution of the search warrant under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person having control of any premises for
which a search warrant has been issued to prohibit the entry onto the premises
by the person as authorized in accord with §§
10.99 and
131.02(A)(1).
(Ord. 09-18, passed 7-10-18)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE, TRASH, DEBRIS, RECYCLABLE MATERIAL, HAZARDOUS WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
54.   DROUGHT RESPONSE
      
55.   ON-SITE SEPTIC SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE, TRASH, DEBRIS, RECYCLABLE MATERIAL, HAZARDOUS WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Containers
   
50.03   Standards for all containers and premises
   
50.04   Placement of trash for removal: residential
   
50.05   Placement of trash for removal: commercial and multi-family
   
50.06   Hazardous waste, automotive parts and tires
   
50.07   Construction and demolition refuse
   
50.08   Collection times
   
50.09   Duties of Department of Public Works employees
   
50.10   Compliance required
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Shall consist of scraps of lumber, bricks, mortar,
roofing materials, sawdust, trees and bushes and all other waste material
incidental to the clearing of lots and the building or remodeling of buildings.
   GARBAGE. Shall consist of organic matter such as table and kitchen refuse,
vegetables, food scraps, dead animals such as rats, and any waste material
which by nature putrefies or becomes noxious.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Shall consist of materials harmful to people, animals or
the environment as defined by the Environmental Protection Agency such as lead
acid batteries, motor oil, oil filters; electronic equipment such as television
sets, computers and their components; lighting fixtures containing mercury,
paint, chemicals, or gases.
   MANMADE TRASH. Shall consist of unwanted household items such as dishes,
cloth, plastic security wrap, broken or old hand appliances; small pieces of
wood, non-recyclable bottles, cans, and plastic containers, furniture,
mattresses, springs, cupboards, tables, chairs, refrigerators, washers, dryers,
stoves, microwaves, window air conditioners, and similar items.
   NATURAL TRASH. Shall consist of organic matter such as leaves, grass, yard
trimmings and small branches, palm fronds, trees, tree stumps, limbs less than
six inches in diameter and four feet in length and trimmed of smaller branches.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Shall consist of materials collected in the city by the
Charleston County recycling program.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.02 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Each owner occupied residence shall be provided with one 90-gallon
roll cart garbage container from the city at no cost. The owner of a
residential unit located within the city, who claims unit as his or her second
home and home is not a seasonal or long term rental, shall also be provided
with one 90-gallon roll cart garbage container from the city at no cost.
   (B)   The owner or agent of residential rental property may purchase as many
of the 90-gallon roll cart garbage containers at cost.
   (C)   Each multifamily complex shall be entitled to a maximum of one 90-
gallon roll cart per unit, with the cost determined by divisions (A) and (B),
above. The Homeowners' Associations of multifamily complexes may apply to city
staff for once-per-week commercial dumpster service, by showing that roll carts
are not feasible for that particular complex. The Director of Public Works
shall evaluate applications and determine whether roll cart service is feasible
at a particular complex or whether commercial dumpsters must be used. The
Director shall consider the current dumpster service and capacity when
evaluating applications. If the Director approves city-funded commercial
dumpster service, that complex must be entirely served by dumpsters and no roll
carts will be permitted. Any commercial dumpster collection required in excess
of once per week is the responsibility of the Homeowner's Association through a
separate contract.
   (D)   A business shall be entitled to a maximum of ten 90-gallon roll carts.
Each business will be provided with one cart at no cost and then may purchase
the additional carts at cost. All garbage in excess of these ten roll carts is
the responsibility of the business owner.
   (E)   In the event, a garbage container is damaged or lost, the replacement
container shall be purchased from the city at the cost set forth by the city at
the time of purchase.
   (F)   Only 90-gallon or 45-gallon rolling carts shall be used for garbage
and only approved roll carts or bio-degradable paper bags shall be used for
yard debris.
   (G)   Residents and businesses should make reasonable efforts to avoid
placing recyclable material into garbage containers.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.03 STANDARDS FOR ALL CONTAINERS AND PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter the contents of any garbage
or trash container in any street, lane, public place or private ground, or for
any person to molest and scatter the contents of any garbage container awaiting
collection.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.04 PLACEMENT OF TRASH FOR REMOVAL: RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Natural trash. Natural trash shall be placed in the right-of-way
adjacent to the property line.
      (1)   Leaves, grasses, and other small yard trimmings shall be placed in
a bio-degradable paper bag or approved roll cart for collection. No plastic
bags shall be used for leaves or grass clippings. No household garbage or other
materials may be placed with leaves or grass clippings. No mixed materials or
plastic bags shall be collected by the city. Home composting of leaves and
grass clippings is encouraged. Small tree limbs, bushes and similar yard waste
shall be placed in a pile for convenient collection.
      (2)   Logs, limbs, tree stumps, brush, and like materials shall be placed
at the curb in the following manner:
         (a)   Length of material shall not exceed four feet in length.
         (b)   Diameter of material shall not exceed six inches.
         (c)   All smaller branches shall be removed and these branches placed
with (a) and (b) above in separate piles.
      (3)   The city will only collect materials as listed in this category
which are generated by the resident for routine landscape maintenance on
developed lots.
      (4)   When placed at the curbside for collection, materials shall not
obstruct access to water meters, stormwater collection boxes, sewer manhole
covers, or fire hydrants.
      (5)   No garbage shall be mixed with the items listed in this category.
      (6)   No plastic bags shall be used for the disposal of any items listed
in this category.
   (B)   Manmade trash: residential.
      (1)   Non-recyclable bottles, cans, plastic containers, rubbish, small
mechanical equipment and trash shall be placed in the 90-gallon or 45-gallon
roll cart as garbage.
      (2)   All garbage containers shall be placed at the curb adjacent to the
street (coinciding with the resident's address) for removal. Garbage containers
(90-gallon or 45-gallon roll carts) and blue recycle containers shall be placed
in the street right-of-way for collection no earlier than 2:00 p.m. on the day
prior to collection and moved from the right-of-way not later than 8:00 p.m. on
the day of collection. Roll cart corrals may not be built on the public right-
of-way unless required by the city for access, containment, and collection.
      (3)   Disposal of furniture, carpets, rugs, beds, mattresses, springs,
cupboards, appliances such as stoves, refrigerators, washing machines, dryers,
water heaters, window air conditioning units, and like household items,
requires the owner/agent to contact the Department of Public Works and make an
appointment for pick up. The material shall be placed out on the scheduled day
for pick up (or night before).
      (4)   Materials placed out for pick up without a scheduled appointment
will be picked up by the Department of Public Works and the property owner/
agent cited for improper disposal of trash by Code Enforcement or Public Works.
      (5)   Natural trash shall not be mixed with manmade trash in the roll
carts or piles for collection (see division (A) above).
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17; Am.
Ord. 01-18, passed 2-13-18)
§ 50.05 PLACEMENT OF TRASH FOR REMOVAL: COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Commercial establishments and multi-family complexes shall place
refuse in either 90-gallon roll carts or commercial dumpsters for collection.
Each roll cart and its contents may not exceed 200 pounds.
   (B)   All business and multi-family garbage containers, whether city roll
carts or commercial dumpsters, must be shielded from public view.
   (C)   Disposal of large items such as tables, chairs, freezers, coolers,
counters, display cases and similar items not fitting into a 90-gallon roll
cart requires the owner/agent to contact the Department of Public Works and
make an appointment for pick up. The material shall not be placed out for pick
up more than two days prior to the scheduled date.
   (D)   Items or materials placed out for pick up without a scheduled
appointment will be picked up by the Department of Public Works and the owner/
agent will be cited for improper disposal of trash by Code Enforcement.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.06 HAZARDOUS WASTE, AUTOMOTIVE PARTS AND TIRES.
   No tires, automotive parts, oil, oil filters, non-hazardous wastes,
including television or computer components, liquid paint, lighting fixtures
containing mercury, shall be placed in any garbage or trash container, nor will
such material be picked up by Department of Public Works. Such materials must
be transported to the appropriate recycle center by the owner/agent.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.07 CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION REFUSE.
   (A)   Refuse, such as bricks, scraps of lumber, mortar, plaster, roofing,
guttering, sawdust, trees, bushes, and all other waste material generated by
the clearing of lots, the building or remodeling of buildings and natural trash
created during the fulfillment of a landscaping contract, shall be removed by
the contractor, owner, agent or tenant of the premises at their expense and
each shall be jointly and individually responsible for the removal.
   (B)   The materials shall be removed by the owner, agent, tenant or
contractor regardless of whether the work has been done by the owner, agent,
tenant, or by a contractor.
   (C)   Individuals failing to remove such refuse as specified in this section
will be cited by Code Enforcement.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.08 COLLECTION TIMES.
   Collection days and times are available on the City of Folly Beach website.
Residents and commercial establishments may also contact City Hall directly for
collection schedules.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.09 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES.
   Collectors shall peacefully and quietly enter the collection sites for the
purpose of removing garbageand trash containers and shall return the empty
containers to the place from which they were removed and securely replace the
covers.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 50.10 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent, lessee, or occupant of the premises shall be
individually and collectively responsible for complying with the terms of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any party noncompliant with the terms of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. No penalty shall
exceed the penalty provided by state law for similar offenses. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 14-12, as amended, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17; Am.
Ord. 13-17, passed 5-9-17)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Application for service
   
51.003   Tampering or damaging system
   
51.004   Discontinuance of service
   
51.005   Water connections; tap fee and impact fee payment
   
51.006   Each lot requires separate tap
   
51.007   Claims against city do not offset charges
   
51.008   Transfer or resale of service prohibited
   
51.009   Free service prohibited
   
51.010   Water connections required
   
51.011   Payment for governmental services
Service Standards and Regulations
   
51.025   Provisions of water; interruptions of service
   
51.026   Metered service; required; tests
   
51.027   Right of entry for city
   
51.028   Fire protection systems; detector meters
   
51.029   Cut-off devices
   
51.030   Plumbing standards; inspections
   
51.031   Connection of system with other water sources
   
51.032   Protection of water quality during improvements
   
51.033   Emergency powers of city
   
51.034   Tests of water supply
Records and Billing
   
51.050   Mailing of bills
   
51.051   Place of payments
   
51.052   Refunds; limitations
   
51.053   Classification of customers for billing purposes
   
51.054   Past due accounts; disconnection
   
51.055   Basis for billings; minimum charges
   
51.056   Maintenance of records
   
51.057   Annual budget; charges established
   
51.058   Taps
   
51.059   Water rates
   
51.060   Method of billing
Water System Extensions
   
51.075   Responsibility for construction
   
51.076   Conveyance of lines to city
   
51.077   Plans for subdivisions
   
51.078   Administrative procedures
   
51.079   Contractor
   
51.080   Certificate of completion
   
51.081   Owner's warranty
   
51.082   Taps
   
51.083   Compatibility with existing system
   
51.084   Instrument of conveyance
System Protection and Cross-Connection Control
   
51.095   Definitions
   
51.096   Purpose
   
51.097   Responsibility
   
51.098   Requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT. Any building containing two or more single-family dwelling units
and having one water connection for all dwelling units.
   BUILDING. Any improved property containing a structure which meets any one
of the classifications herein.
   BUSINESS. Any building used by the occupant for amusement, entertainment,
service, professional, retail trade or any other similar purposes except as
defined under "commercial" and "institution."
   CITY. The City of Folly Beach, its elected officials and appointed
authorized representatives.
   COMMERCIAL.
      (1)   Any hotel, motel, lodge, tourist home, efficiency apartments, house
or similar building operated primarily as a commercial enterprise for the
purpose of rental and lodging on a daily or weekly basis.
      (2)   For determination of rates, each room or series of rooms made
available to the general public as a separate entity for overnight
accommodation shall be classified as a rental unit.
   CONDOMINIUM. One or more buildings containing two or more single-family
units owned individually and not provided with access by public streets or
roads and having one water connection for all units.
   COST. City purchase price from CPW.
   CUSTOMER. Any responsible person who makes application to the city for water
service.
   EQUIVALENT UNIT. Equal to that number of single family dwelling units. When
several residential customers are served through a single water meter, each
customer or unit shall be billed monthly for the basic residential water charge
plus the volume used. For purpose of establishing tap fee and billing cost, the
following equivalents shall be used:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling unit: one.
      (2)   Condominium dwelling unit: one.
      (3)   Townhouse dwelling unit: one.
      (4)   Apartment: one, separate rate.
      (5)   Commercial shall be determined by the size of the water meter, as
follows:
         (a)   3/4 water meter, 1.0;
         (b)   1 water meter, 2.5;
         (c)   1 1/2 water meter, 5.0;
         (d)   2 water meter, 8.0;
         (e)   3 water meter, 15.0;
         (f)   4 water meter, 23.0;
         (g)   6 water meter, 30.0.
   INSTITUTION. Any building used as a hospital, church, school or similar
public facility.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building containing two or more single-
family dwelling units and having individual water connections to each dwelling
unit.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, corporation, institution
or group.
   SERVICES. The delivery of potable water through an authorized and approved
water connection, account record keeping, billing and all work associated
therewith.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building, house or apartment unit, occupied
for living purposes by a single family and owned or leased by the occupant on a
continuing basis for 30 days or more per year.
   TOWNHOUSE. One or more buildings containing two or more single-family units
owned individually and provided with, or adjacent to, public streets or roads
and having one water connection for each unit.
   WATER CONNECTION. All materials including valves, pipe, fittings, meter and
meter box necessary to convey water from the most convenient water main to the
most convenient property line of the customer.
   WATERWORKS SYSTEM. All property, wells, equipment, pumps, piping, water
storage tanks, water connections, records, structures and any other associated
appurtenance necessary to provide water service; owned and operated by the
city.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-1) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 84-5, passed 3-6-84;
Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 21-00, passed 9-26-00)
§ 51.002 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Each new water customer shall make application to the city for service by
completing the standard contract of the city for water service.
   (A)   Each new customer shall pay an account transfer fee which shall be
established by City Council.
   (B)   Each new customer shall pay a deposit fee which shall be established
by City Council. The deposit fee shall be returned to the customer upon payment
of the final bill associated with the account. Should the final bill not be
paid in full, the fee shall be credited towards the outstanding total, with any
remaining balance returned to the customer.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 11-17, passed 5-9-17;
Am. Ord. 027-24, passed 12-10-24)
§ 51.003 TAMPERING OR DAMAGING SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person, or
persons, to damage, deface, alter, change or tamper with any part of the
waterworks system; and upon conviction, the person, or persons, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and fined in accordance with the penalty for a misdemeanor.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.004 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service immediately, and
have the water connection removed or severed, if it is found that any provision
of this chapter has been violated.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
make any connection to the waterworks system or to reconnect service when it
has been discontinued for violation of this chapter, or any other reason,
except where specifically approved in writing by the city with the approval
being contingent upon satisfaction of all sections of this chapter; and upon
conviction, the person, or persons, shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor and
fined in accordance with the penalty for a misdemeanor.
   (C)   When service has been discontinued for violation of this chapter, all
charges for services to date become immediately due and payable and service
will not be reinstated until payment in full has been made of all charges
including bills, cost of repairs, service charges, reconnection fees and
penalties.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.005 WATER CONNECTIONS; TAP FEE AND IMPACT FEE PAYMENT.
   (A)   For each new water connection, the person applying for water service
shall pay a tap fee. Payment shall be made before the water connection is
provided by the city.
      (1)   Water tap fees shall be $625 for three-quarter inch meters.
      (2)   Water tap fees shall be $750 for one-inch meters.
      (3)   For taps larger than one inch, the charge will be actual costs,
plus 10%. Any additional costs incurred by the city because of unforeseen
circumstances shall be paid within 30 days of installation.
   (B)   All impact fees, connection fees and/or additional fees or costs
imposed by James Island Public Service District (JIPSD), Charleston Public
Works (CPW) or any other entity and charged to the city or any future fees
imposed by the city, shall be the sole responsibility of the developer or owner
of new equivalent units. These fees shall be due and payable prior to the new
equivalent units being connected to the water system.
   (C)   Folly Beach water impact fees per equivalent residential unit (ERU),
as defined in §
51.001, shall be $750/ERU.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 7-1-97;
Am. Ord. 18-00, passed - - 00; Am. Ord. 04-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 11-15,
passed 7-14-15)
§ 51.006 EACH LOT REQUIRES SEPARATE TAP.
   No water service shall be furnished to any lot from an existing service on
another lot except as herein provided or by special authorization, in writing,
of the City Council.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.007 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY DO NOT OFFSET CHARGES.
   No claims or demands that the customer may have against the city shall be
considered as an offset against the payments for service as provided under this
chapter.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-7) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.008 TRANSFER OR RESALE OF SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Water service, as provided by this chapter, is rendered to the
customer for the use of the customer in the operation of his or her residence,
rental, service, business, commercial or institution.
   (B)   Service shall not be subleased, assigned, transferred, sold or
disposed of to others, in whole or any part thereof.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.009 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No water service shall be furnished or rendered free of charge to any
person.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-9) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.010 WATER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Every building which is located within 250 feet of any water main operated
and maintained by the city shall be connected thereto and shall utilize the
same for water. Water connections shall be made forthwith and for the purposes
of the penal provisions of this chapter, following ten days written notice by
the city, each day during which the building shall not be connected to the
water main shall be a separate offense and punishable by a misdemeanor.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-10) (Ord. 85-17, passed 8-20-85; Am. Ord. 85-29, passed 10-15-
85)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.011 PAYMENT FOR GOVERNMENTAL SERVICES.
   (A)   As payment in lieu of taxes there shall be paid each fiscal year from
the Water Utilities System Revenue Fund to the General Fund an amount equal to
15% of the Revenue Fund’s gross sales for the preceding fiscal year. The total
amount shall not exceed $120,000 for each fiscal year.
   (B)   The payment shall be made; provided, that if the cash position of the
Revenue Fund is such that payments cannot be made, except by deferring other
payments for which prior liens on revenues have been established by ordinance,
the payment in lieu of taxes shall be deferred until the cash position of the
Revenue Fund is sufficient to make payments in lieu of taxes.
   (C)   (1)   The proceeds from the tax levied under this section shall be
dedicated to the payment of debt service for the new municipal complex.
      (2)   When the debt service for the municipal complex has been paid in
full, then the tax levied under this section shall be paid to the General Fund
with no dedication in effect.
(Ord. 12-96, passed 8-6-96; Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 6-28-05)
SERVICE STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.025 PROVISIONS OF WATER; INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city shall provide personnel to operate the system in number and
of skill as required by the rules and regulations of the State Department of
Health and Environmental Control.
   (B)   The city agrees to use reasonable diligence in providing a regular and
uninterrupted supply of water and service but in case the supply of water shall
be interrupted or fail by accident, or any cause whatsoever, except negligence
on the part of the city, the city shall not be liable for the interruption or
failure and the city shall not be liable for any damages sustained by the
customer by reason thereof.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-21) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.026 METERED SERVICE; REQUIRED; TESTS.
   (A)   (1)   All services will be metered. Where water meters fail to
register, bills shall be arrived at by comparison with the same month of the
previous year.
      (2)   When at the request of the customer, or otherwise, water meters
have been tested by the city or any other party approved by the city and found
to be more than 3% fast, previous bills reflecting the inaccuracy will be
adjusted accordingly, but in no case will the adjustment exceed six months
prior billing.
   (B)   If a meter is tested at the customer's request more than once in any
six month's period, the customer shall pay a service charge of $5 for the
service, but in the event the meter is found to be more than 3% fast, then the
customer will have his or her bill adjusted as stated above and no service
charge will be applied.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-22) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.027 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR CITY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to enter the customer's premises without
notice for the purpose of making emergency repairs, disconnection or recon-
nection of service, necessary installations or reading of meters.
   (B)   The city shall further have the right to enter the customer's premises
for inspections and any other reason for administering reasonable service
provided that the customer is notified in advance.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-23) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.028 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS; DETECTOR METERS.
   All water connections installed for sprinkler systems or similar business
and commercial fire protection devices must be equipped with a detector to
check the meter at the customer's expense.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-24) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.029 CUT-OFF DEVICES.
   (A)   Upon payment of a $25 fee, the city will allow any customer a
convenience cut-off and cut-on as a protective device during periods of absence
from the premises.
   (B)   Actual cut-off and cut-on must be accomplished by the city and does
not relieve the customer of any obligation to pay the minimum charges for
service.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-25) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 21-15, passed 11-10-
15)
§ 51.030 PLUMBING STANDARDS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All building plumbing shall conform with the city's plumbing
code, latest revision, and shall be accomplished only by a regularly licensed
plumber authorized by the city.
      (2)   It shall become the responsibility of each person requesting a
water connection to notify the city and arrange for final inspection of the
plumbing while visible and accessible to the inspecting agent of the city
before permission to connect is granted.
   (B)   The city shall make inspections of existing building plumbing and if
any condition is found which, in the opinion of the city constitutes a health
hazard or a potential health hazard to the water supply or operation of the
waterworks system, the city shall require immediate action to be taken by that
customer or sever the water connection until remedial measures are instituted
and the hazard eliminated to the complete satisfaction of the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-26) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.031 CONNECTION OF SYSTEM WITH OTHER WATER SOURCES.
   (A)   Under no circumstance shall any part of the waterworks system be
connected in any way with any other water source except as specifically
approved in writing by the City Council.
   (B)   Any hazardous connection between the waterworks system and any source
of contamination is expressly prohibited.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-27) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.032 PROTECTION OF WATER QUALITY DURING IMPROVEMENTS.
   During any and all improvements, expansions, extensions, repairs or fire
calls, the city shall exercise all reasonable precaution to protecting the
quality of the water supply.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-28) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.033 EMERGENCY POWERS OF CITY.
   In the interest of the public health and safety, the city shall be permitted
to take emergency action as may be deemed necessary in the operation of the
waterworks system including, but not limited to the right to close down any
water line or portion of the waterworks system for the purpose of making
connections, alterations or repairs.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-29) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.034 TESTS OF WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall conduct tests in a recognized and generally accepted
manner to ensure a potable water supply to the customer.
   (B)   These tests are to be in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the State Department of Health and Environmental Control.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-30) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
RECORDS AND BILLING
§ 51.050 MAILING OF BILLS.
   (A)   All metered accounts with water service only shall be billed
quarterly. All metered accounts with water and sewer service shall be billed
monthly. All accounts shall be billed through the United States Postal Service
or by email.
   (B)   While the city will make every reasonable effort to see that each
customer receives his or her bill, no responsibility will be assumed for non-
delivery when same has been mailed at the post office.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-41) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 21-15, passed 11-10-
15)
§ 51.051 PLACE OF PAYMENT.
   All charges for water services are due and payable at the collecting office
in City Hall or by utilization of the city's online payment system.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-42) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 21-15, passed 11-10-
15)
§ 51.052 REFUNDS; LIMITATIONS.
   All utility adjustments and/or refunds will be subject to the current city
standard adjustment policy requirements at the time notice is received by the
city from the customer. The approving authorities for any utility adjustment
and/or refund are the Director of Public Works or Director of Finance.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-43) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 21-15, passed 11-10-
15)
§ 51.053 CLASSIFICATION OF CUSTOMERS FOR BILLING PURPOSES.
   (A)   Each account for water service shall be classified for billing
purposes at the discretion of the city and according to the definitions
contained herein.
   (B)   The customer shall have the right of redress to the city for purposes
of reclassification through presentation of sufficient evidence to the City
Council.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-44) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.054 PAST DUE ACCOUNTS; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   All metered accounts with only water service will be read quarterly.
All metered accounts with water and sewer services will be read monthly. If a
bill is not paid by the last day of the month following the date of billing, a
second notice will be sent to the customer as set forth below.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-45) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 30-03, passed 10-14-
03; Am. Ord. 21-15, passed 11-10-15)
§ 51.055 BASIS FOR BILLINGS; MINIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   Billing will be based upon minimum rates for each meter size.
   (B)   Any service discontinued for convenience under §
51.029 shall be subject to payment of the minimum monthly rate for the period
of absence.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-46) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.056 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   The city shall keep separate from other business the records of the water
system.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-47) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.057 ANNUAL BUDGET; CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council shall prepare an annual budget for the water system based
upon the audit and establish charges as may be necessary to fund the budget in
accordance herewith.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-48) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.058 TAPS.
   (A)   No water connection shall be made until the tap fee has been paid.
   (B)   Tap fees for new connections shall be as fixed from time to time by
the City Council.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-49) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 84-5, passed 3-6-84)
§ 51.059 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Water billing shall be based upon rates established from time to time
by City Council in accordance with use. The adopted rates shall be published by
the city. water use in accordance with the rate schedule as follows:
   (B)   Discontinued or services cut off for non- payment of bills may be
reconnected after payment of all charges due, plus a service fee as fixed from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   All additional fees or costs imposed by James Island Public Service
District (JIPSD), Charleston Public Works (CPW) or any other entity and charged
to the city shall be automatically added to the current rate schedule as
approved by Council.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-50) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82; Am. Ord. 17-00, passed - -00;
Am. Ord. 01-01, passed 2-27-01; Am. Ord. 13-15, passed 7-14-15)
§ 51.060 METHOD OF BILLING.
   The method used to determine bills shall be established by the City Council
from time to time as needed based on the most current rate table set for by the
city and Charleston Water Systems.
(Ord. 23-00, passed - - 00; Am. Ord. 21-15, passed 11-10-15)
WATER SYSTEM EXTENSIONS
§ 51.075 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Construction of water lines in any new develop-ment shall be the
responsibility of the person respon-sible for the development.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-61) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.076 CONVEYANCE OF LINES TO CITY.
   Water lines constructed within new developments may be conveyed to the city
provided all lines are located within public rights-of-way or upon approval
easements of adequate unobstructed widths to provide maintenance vehicle
access.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-62) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.077 PLANS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Any new development proposing to construct water distribution lines or
extensions to existing transmission mains to connect directly into the city's
water system shall conform to city standards.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall be prepared by a registered
engineer who is authorized by the laws of the state and approved or approvable
by any and all local, county and state authorities having jurisdiction.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-63) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.078 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   The following administrative procedures shall be followed:
   (A)   Submit preliminary construction plans to the approving authority in
sufficient detail to indicate location, system layout, line sizes, service
connections, flows, pressures and point of connection to the city's system;
   (B)   Receive preliminary approval from city and other jurisdictional
agencies;
   (C)   Prepare construction drawings and docu- ments for city approval;
   (D)   Secure all other agency approvals of construction drawings and
contract documents;
   (E)   Upon receipt of all approvals, proceed with construction, notifying
the approving authority of construction schedules;
   (F)   Provide the approving authority and its authorized representatives
with permission for on-site inspection during construction; and
   (G)   Furnish to the approving authority a certificate of completion,
instrument of conveyance, warranty together with other legal documents as may
be required for annexation, and similar special provisions.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-64) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.079 CONTRACTOR.
   Construction of the proposed water system shall be accomplished by a
registered licensed contractor under the laws of the state who shall have paid
all business licenses required by the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-65) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.080 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
   Upon completion of construction, the engineer employed by the development
shall inspect and furnish to the approving authority at no cost to the city,
his or her certificate of completion indicating that the subject water system
has been constructed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications,
and shall provide four copies of “as constructed” drawings.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-66) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.081 OWNER'S WARRANTY.
   The owner or his or her authorized agent shall submit a warranty which is a
legal instrument in which the owner warrants the materials, equipment and
construction of the system for 12 months. The owner shall further warrant to
the approving authority that all fees have been paid by him or her such that
there is no outstanding indebtedness remaining and holding the city harmless in
each instance.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-67) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.082 TAPS.
   All water taps shall be made during construction from the main out to the
property line. Location of all taps shall be recorded on the “as constructed”
drawings.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-68) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.083 COMPATIBILITY WITH EXISTING SYSTEM.
   All water system extensions must be compatible with present and future plans
and needs of the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-69) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
§ 51.084 INSTRUMENT OF CONVEYANCE.
   When all other requirements of this chapter have been met and approved, the
owner shall prepare and submit to the approving authority an instrument of
conveyance, conveying the constructed system to the city, at no cost to the
city, and the system shall thereafter be owned, operated and maintained by the
city as provided for in this chapter. The instrument of conveyance shall also
include permanent easements and rights-of-way fully described and duly recorded
at the appropriate authority.
(`95 Code, § 4-1-70) (Ord. 82-1, passed 1-5-82)
SYSTEM PROTECTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.095 DEFINITIONS.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the city as meeting an applicable specification stated
or cited in these rules and regulations, or as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city’s approved public potable water supply. Auxiliary water
supply may include water from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or
any natural source(s) such as well, spring, river, stream, harbor, and the
like, or used waters or industrial fluids. These waters may be polluted or
contaminated or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the city does not have sanitary control. It shall be unlawful
to connect any of these sources of water, directly or indirectly, to the public
potable water distribution system.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal direction of flow of water caused by
either backpressure or backsiphonage.
      (1) BACKPRESSURE occurs when the non-potable (private) water source
pressure exceeds the public potable water pressure. This can occur through a
rise in the non-potable pressure, a drop in the potable pressure or a
combination of both. Increases in non-potable water pressure above potable
water pressure can be created by booster pumps or temperature increases (in a
boiler), or head pressure caused by elevation.
      (2)   BACKSIPHONAGE occurs when the public potable water supply line
pressure falls below atmospheric pressure (14.7 psi at sea level). In this
situation, atmospheric pressure is creating a greater pressure on the non-
potable system side in the reverse direction than the potable water system is
maintaining in the normal direction of flow, and the potable water system falls
below atmospheric pressure. Decreases in the pressure of the potable water
system are caused by fire fighting, a break in the water main, or water mains
being shut down for maintenance. BACKPRESSURE and BACKSIPHONAGE are best
described as PRESSURE DIFFERENTIALS.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (APPROVED). An in-line testable and in-line
repairable assembly approved by the University of Southern California’s
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, also known as
“the Foundation” or as “USC-FCCC & HR.”
      (1)   AIR-GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other vessel and the flood level rim of said
receiving vessel. An approved air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of
the supply pipe, measured vertically, above the overflow rim of the vessel; and
in no case, less than one inch in pipe diameter.
      (2)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA). An assembly consisting of two
independently operating spring loaded check valves with full flow
characteristic resilient seated shut-off valves on each side of the check
valves, plus four properly located resilient seated test cocks for the testing
of each check valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance
specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program
resulting in an approval by a recognized testing agency for backflow
assemblies. To be approved by the foundation and by the city, these assemblies
must be readily accessible for in-line maintenance and testing, and be
installed horizontally, unless specifically approved by the foundation for a
vertical orientation. Vertical installations will be accepted only if approved
by the foundation for that orientation. Specific installations are illustrated
in the cross-connection control program manual on backflow prevention.
      (3)   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (PVB). An assembly approved for residential
lawn sprinkler irrigation systems consisting of a spring loaded air-inlet valve
and a spring loaded check valve, with full flow characteristic resilient seated
shut-off valves, one on the inlet and one on the outlet side of the PVB, plus
two properly located resilient seated test cocks for testing the assembly. The
entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications as
determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program resulting in an
approval by the foundation. To be approved by the foundation and by the city,
these assemblies must be readily accessible for in-line maintenance and
testing, and be installed vertically, in a location where no part of the
assembly will be submerged. It cannot be subjected to backpressure of any kind
and must be installed at least 12 inches above the highest irrigation head and/
or downstream piping. Chemigation or aspiration of any herbicide, pesticide,
fungicide or fertilizer is not permitted for use with a PVB. Specific
installations are illustrated in the cross-connection control program manual on
backflow prevention.
      (4)   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY (RP). An assembly consisting of
two independently operating spring loaded check valves with a hydraulically
operating, spring loaded mechanical differential pressure relief valve located
between the check valves, and at the same time lower than the first check
valve. The assembly shall include four properly located resilient seated test
cocks and full flow characteristic resilient seated shut-off valves at each end
of the assembly. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance
specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program
resulting in an approval by a recognized approved testing agency for backflow
prevention assemblies. The assembly shall operate to maintain the pressure in
the zone between the two check valves at an acceptable pressure level less than
the pressure on the public water supply side of the assembly. At cessation of
normal flow, the pressure between the two check valves shall be less than the
pressure on the public water distribution supply side of the assembly. In case
of leakage of either of the check valves, the differential relief valve shall
operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the zone between the check valves
by discharging to the atmosphere. When the differential pressure in the zone is
two pounds per square inch or less than the supply pressure, the relief valve
shall open to the atmosphere. To be approved by the foundation and by the city,
these assemblies must be readily accessible for in-line maintenance and
testing, and be installed horizontally, unless approved by the foundation for a
vertical orientation, in a location where no part of the assembly will be
submerged. Specific installations are illustrated in the cross-connection
control program manual on backflow prevention.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. An individual person who has proven his or her competency
to test backflow prevention assemblies of all types, and to prepare reports on
such assemblies, as evidenced by the successful completion of a training
program approved by the city. Minimum requirements are the successful
completion of the backflow prevention seminar administered by SCDES, and an in-
depth program orientation presented by the city to explain its rules and
policies to newly certified testers before being added to the list of certified
backflow prevention assembly testers. Approved testers will be listed in a
three-tiered format identifying each tester’s level of training and
certification. The city, at a later date, will require the city-approved
testers to purchase an annual tester permit.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual health hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. As defined by the State Safe Drinking Water Act, any
actual or potential connection, link, or structural arrangement, direct or
indirect, between a public water supply and any other source, link, or system
through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the public potable
water distribution system any used water, industrial fluid, gas or substance
other than the undivided potable water with which the system is supplied. This
would also include any temporary connections, such as swing connections,
removable sections, four-way plug valve, spool pieces, dummy section of pipe,
swivel or changeover devices or multi-port tube.
   CROSS-CONNECTION COMPLIANCE INSPECTOR. Any employee of the city designated
by the Manager to enforce the provisions of these rules and regulations.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROLLED. A water service connection between a public
potable water distribution system and a non-potable water distribution system
with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly installed and maintained
so that it will continuously afford the protection commensurate with the degree
of hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL MANUAL. The latest revision of the city’s cross-
connection control program manual on backflow prevention. A copy of the most
current edition may be obtained from the city. The city shall not be liable for
damages, losses, claims, and the like arising from the lawful discontinuance of
a water service, for any reason.
   CUSTOMER’S SYSTEM. Those parts of the facilities beyond the termination of
the utility distribution system which are utilized in conveying utility-
delivered domestic water to points of use.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who is capable of receiving water from the city’s
system through the customer’s water system, without the regard to whether the
city is aware of the existence of such customer. If such person does not own
the customer’s water system, CUSTOMER shall also be construed to include the
person who owns the customer’s water system.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The network of conduits used for the delivery of water
from the source to the customer’s system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the public
potable water distribution system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device, or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create, or in the judgment of the
city, may create a danger to the health and well-being of the water consumer.
An example of a HEALTH HAZARD is an actual or potential hazard to the public
health through poisoning or through the spread of disease or other hazardous
contamination.
      (2)   HAZARD, LETHAL. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water distribution system, or the
consumer’s potable water system, or a contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
      (3)   HAZARD, NON-HEALTH. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system, but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by an approved
backflow prevention assembly is in violation of plumbing codes.
         (a)   Residential lawn irrigation systems are categorized as low
hazard cross connection unless chemicals or an unapproved auxiliary water
supply was tied to the system. A minimum acceptable device for “low hazard” on
a residential lawn sprinkler system is a residential dual check valve or any
other assembly approved by SCDES.
         (b)   High hazard lawn irrigation systems are any residential lawn
irrigation system that includes chemical additions, or is connected to another
water source which is not an approved public water system. The protection shall
be by air gap or reduce pressure principle backflow prevention assembly.
         (c)   Low hazard residential lawn irrigation and high hazard lawn
irrigation systems will require annual certification of the backflow device to
be performed by a state certified backflow prevention tester.
   NOTICES. Letters mailed depicting require-ments for compliance.
      (1)   ANNUAL TEST. Letter mailed to existing accounts with backflow
prevention assembly installed and are required to perform yearly backflow
prevention assembly test.
      (2)   GENERAL NOTICE. Letter mailed to existing accounts with no backflow
prevention assembly installed.
      (3)   INTERNAL INSPECTION. Letter mailed to existing accounts that the
city has conducted an internal inspection to determine the type of backflow
prevention assembly to install.
      (4)   PERIODIC TEST. Letter mailed to existing accounts with backflow
prevention assembly installed and malfunctions after annual test has been
performed.
      (5)   REPAIR NOTICE. Letter mailed to customer whose backflow preventer
assembly failed its annual test, or has been installed incorrectly.
   PLUMBING CODE. The latest version of Southern Building Codes Congress
International (SBCCI) Standard Plumbing Code, or International Plumbing Code.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
non-health hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree
which does not create an actual health hazard to the public health but does
adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   SOURCE. All components of the facilities utilized in the production,
treatment, storage, and delivery of potable water to the distribution system.
   SYSTEM PROTECTION-CROSS-CONNEC-TION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT METHOD. The
installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly at the water service
connection to any customer’s premises where it is physically and economically
infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential
cross-connections within the customer’s water system; or, it shall mean the
installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly on the service line
leading to and supplying a portion of a customer’s water system where there are
actual or potential cross-connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at a point of cross-connection. System protection or cross-
connection control by containment means no service lines, taps, tees, or take-
offs shall be installed between the city’s water meter and the customer’s
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   UTILITY SYSTEM. The source facilities and the distribution system; and shall
include all those facilities of the water system under the complete control of
the utility, up to the point where the customer’s system begins.
   WATER, NON-POTABLE. Water which is not safe for human consumption or which
is of questionable potability.
   WATER, POTABLE. Any water according to recognized standards which is safe
for human consumption.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The term water purveyor shall mean the owner or operator of
the public potable water distribution system supplying an approved water supply
to the public. The utility shall be one that is operating under a valid permit
from the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS. The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water distribution system, such as where the city loses
jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to
the customer’s water system at the outlet of the water meter. If a meter is
installed at the end of the service connection, then the service connection
shall mean the downstream end of the meter. There should be no unprotected
take-offs from the service line ahead of any meter or backflow prevention
assembly located at the point of delivery to the customer’s water system.
Service connection shall also include water service connection from a fire
hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service connections from the
public potable water system.
   WATER SYSTEM. Made up of two parts: the city’s and the customer’s system.
   WATER USED. Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable
water distribution system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed
through the point of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of
the water purveyor.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 01-10, as amended, passed 2-23-10; Am.
Ord. 001-25, passed 2- 11-25)
§ 51.096 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations are:
   (A)   To protect the public potable water distribution system of the city
from the possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its
customers, internal potable water distribution system(s), or its customers’
private water system(s), such contaminants or pollutants which could backflow
into the public potable water distribution system; and
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, direct or indirect, between its customers’ in-plant
potable water system(s) and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and
industrial piping systems; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program for protection
and cross-connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent
potential contamination or pollution of the potable water distribution system.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 8-26-03)
§ 51.097 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall be responsible for the protection of the public potable water
distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the backflow of
contaminants or pollutants through the water service connection. If the city
requires, now or in the future, an approved backflow prevention assembly to
protect the public water distribution system, the city shall give notice, in
writing, to the customer to install an approved backflow prevention assembly(s)
at each service connection to his premises. If the assembly(s) is not installed
as required by the city, the water service will be disconnected until such
assembly(s) has been properly installed. A backflow administrative fee ($25 as
fixed from time to time) by City Council will be charged once annually for each
backflow prevention assembly required to be installed, tested, and administered
by the city on all services. This fee does not provide for installation or the
testing of backflow assemblies.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 8-26-03)
§ 51.098 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the city unless the water supply is protected as required by
federal and state laws and regulations, and the city’s cross-connection control
manual, the Environmental Protection Agency’s Safe Drinking Water Act (1996),
the SCDES Safe Drinking Water Act, Sect. 44-55-40d, and the SC Primary Drinking
Water Regulations, Sect. R.61-58.7(F). Service of water to any premises that is
required to have a backflow prevention assembly shall be discontinued by the
city if an approved backflow prevention assembly is not installed, tested and
maintained per the cross-connection control manual, or if it is found that a
backflow prevention assembly has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected
cross-connection exists within the premises. Service will not be restored until
such conditions or defects are corrected in conformance with the cross-
connection control manual. This manual is written and intended to provide the
day-to-day operational provisions, rules, policies, illustrations, and
installation guidelines for the city’s cross-connection control program for
system protection.
   (B)   The customer’s system will be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to the city’s cross-connection compliance inspectors to determine whether
cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations
of these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the city may
deny, or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing for a
physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
deficiency in compliance with the cross-connection control manual. Should an
inspection of the premise be refused, the city will install, at the customer’s
expense, a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly behind the
city’s water meter. The city will bill the customer the cost of all labor and
materials.
   (C)   When required, an approved backflow prevention assembly shall also be
installed on each service line to a customer’s water system at or near the
property line or immediately inside the building being served; but in all
cases, before the first branch line leading off the service line.
      (1)   Each backflow prevention assembly required by the city must be
installed in accordance with the provisions of the cross-connection control
manual.
      (2)   Each backflow prevention assembly required by the cross-connection
control manual must be functioning properly when installed. Each assembly must
be tested after it is placed in service, after repairs of any type, and at
least once annually, required by the cross-connection control manual. All field
testing and maintenance reports for backflow prevention assemblies are entered
into cross-connection control permanent database files. System protection
personnel will log and date test results when they are received by the city,
not when they are tested.
   (D)   All backflow prevention assemblies installed on a new water service in
a customer’s water system must be tested within ten days as outlined in the
cross-connection control manual. Failure or refusal to comply with the
requirements of the cross-connection control manual may result in
discontinuance of water service.
   (E)   If a customer does not wish for water service to be interrupted when a
backflow prevention assembly is tested, repaired, or replaced, a parallel
installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly may be made in
accordance with the provisions of the cross-connection control manual.
   (F)   Each backflow prevention assembly required by the cross-connection
control manual must be foundation approved and installed in a manner that would
make them readily accessible for in-line testing and in-line maintenance/
repair. A partial list of approved backflow prevention assemblies is listed in
the cross-connection control manual and is available to the general public. The
complete list of approved assemblies is available at the city.
   (G)   (1)   When a backflow prevention assembly is required to be installed,
tested or repaired in a customer’s water system, the customer will be notified
of the requirement, in writing, by the city. Each notice will have the
following time period associated:
         (a)   General notice: 30 days;
         (b)   Survey notice: 30 days or (as deemed necessary by the Cross-
Connection Manager or his or her designee);
         (c)   Annual test: 30 days;
         (d)   Periodic test: depends on degree of hazard;
         (e)   Repair notice: 30 days.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city may require the
installation of the required backflow prevention assembly immediately or within
a shorter time period than specified above or in the cross-connection control
manual in order to protect the public water system from hazards.
   (H)   It is a violation of these rules for any person to submit or fail to
submit any record to the city which is required by these rules and regulations
or the cross-connection control manual which is false or incomplete.
   (I)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line as stipulated in the cross-connection control manual and/or Manual
of Cross-Connection Control by USC-FCCC & HR (latest edition), and/or AWWA
Manual M-14 (latest edition). Although not all commercial or industrial
services are required to install, test or maintain a backflow prevention
assembly, those services identified as not conforming to the latest plumbing
code specifications may be required, for that reason only, to install and
maintain an approved backflow prevention assembly until the provisions of the
plumbing code are adhered to. In the case of premises having (1) internal
cross-connection that cannot be permanently corrected and controlled, or (2)
intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of
the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it
impracticable or impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross-
connections exist, the public water system shall be protected against backflow
from the premises by installing a backflow prevention assembly in the service
line, appropriate to the degree of hazard behind the meter or service
connection. If the containment backflow prevention assembly is not of a
classification for the actual or potential degree of hazard for an internal or
isolation cross-connection, the city will require an internal or isolation
backflow prevention assembly meeting that actual or potential degree of hazard
to be installed, tested, and maintained within the customer’s premises.
Although this assembly would normally be considered an isolation/internal
assembly, the city will treat this assembly as a containment assembly. This
shall apply to all known or existing services as well as those services found
during an internal survey inspection or other investigations by the city.
   (J)   The type of protective device required by division (D) above shall
depend upon the actual or potential degree of hazard, not the service class or
sub-class. In the case where the city determines that a customer’s water system
constitutes an imminent hazard without the appropriate backflow prevention
assembly, water service may be terminated immediately. The city reserves the
right, to determine the actual or potential degree of hazard on all service
connections.
      (1)   Degree of Hazard is classified as Non-Health Hazard, Health Hazard,
and Lethal Hazard.
         (a)   Examples of Non-Health Hazards include but are not limited to
the following: Heating equipment, hose bibs, trap primers, carbonated drink
machines, washing equipment, shampoo basins, auto dealerships and car lots
(new/used), fire protection sprinkler system without antifreeze injection or
aspiration of chemicals, pressure washers without aspiration, and restaurants.
         (b)   Examples of Health Hazards include but are not limited to the
following: Hospitals, nursing homes, laboratories, petroleum processing
facilities, commercial laundries/dry cleaners, plating and chemical plants,
waterfront marinas, docks and docking facilities, film laboratories, car wash
and reclaimed water systems, connection to or make-up feed water to
agriculture-livestock, farm or barn animal watering troughs (manual or
automatic), boilers, condensers, cooling towers, saltwater cooling systems,
lawn sprinkler irrigation systems, and industrial fluid systems.
         (c)   Examples of Lethal Hazards include sewage treatment plants,
sewer lift stations, radioactive material or substances, plants or facilities
handling.
         (d)   A comprehensive list of cross-connections and degree of hazard
is illustrated in Chapters (4) and (5) of AWWA Manual M-14, and Sections (5)
and (7) of the USC-FCCC and HR Manual of Cross-Connection Control.
   (K)   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be of a model
and size listed in the cross-connection control manual and shall be
manufactured in compliance with the standards established by the American Water
Works Association entitled: “AWWA C506-84 Standards for Reduced Pressure
Principle Backflow Prevention Assemblies; Double Check Valve Assemblies; and
Pressure Vacuum Breakers.”
   (L)   The water service will not be activated until the city has been
provided with information necessary to determine any actual or potential degree
of hazard associated with the customer’s water system, and a determination has
been made of the appropriate backflow prevention assembly which must be
installed.
   (M)   No person may modify or permit to be modified a customer’s water
system in a manner which could affect the degree of hazard of such system,
until the city has been provided information necessary to determine the actual
or potential degree of hazard and the appropriate backflow prevention assembly
associated with the modifications. If a different backflow prevention assembly
is required, it must be installed in accordance with provisions of the cross-
connection control manual.
   (N)   A customer must immediately notify the city if the customer’s water
system is contaminated or polluted or has a reason to believe that backflow has
occurred from the customer’s water system to the public water distribution
system.
   (O)   A written notice of violation will be given to any person who is found
to be in violation of any provision of these rules and regulations and/or the
cross-connection control manual. The notice will set forth the violation and
time period to be corrected. The violation must be corrected within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from receipt of the notice. If the city
determines that the violation is occurring on a customer’s water system and has
created or contributed to a system hazard, the customer will be required to
correct the violation immediately. Water service will be discontinued if the
customer, after notification by the city, fails in a timely manner to correct a
violation.
   (P)   An administrative appeal may be requested whenever a violation or
dispute of any of the requirements of these rules and regulations and/or the
cross-connection control manual is determined, whether during construction or
at the plan review stage, and the person wishes to appeal the decision of the
city staff. The first level of appeal will be made to the Cross-Connection
Control Hearing Committee. All appeals must be in writing and will be heard
within seven days of receipt of the appeal by the city. The Hearing Committee
shall consist of the City Council, City Administrator and the Cross-Connection
Manager. Additional specialists or technical persons may be added for a
particular appeal, at the discretion of the Director of Public Works. Those
customers who do not accept the decision of the Hearing Committee may appeal
the Committee’s decision to the City Council.
   (Q)   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section, but were approved or accepted at the
time of installation, and which have been properly tested and maintained, shall
be grandfathered and accepted per these rules and regulations and/or the cross-
connection control manual so long as the city is assured that they will
adequately protect the water distribution system. Whenever an existing assembly
malfunctions, or fails to pass the prescribed annual, periodic, or random test,
and that assembly is replaced, it must be replaced in a manner consistent with
the cross-connection control manual and the most current version of the
approved plumbing codes. Whenever the existing assembly is moved from the
present location or requires more than minimum maintenance, or when the city
finds that the assembly for whatever reason no longer ensures adequate
protection for the actual or potential degree of hazard present, the unit shall
be replaced by a backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of the
cross-connection control manual and/or these rules and regulations.
   (R)    In order to be on the city’s list of certified backflow prevention
assembly testers, the individual tester must have successfully completed the
tester certification requirements administered by the South Carolina Department
of Health and Environmental Control SCDES and meet the requirements of the
cross-connection control manual. We shall have the absolute right to remove any
certified tester found falsifying records, making unauthorized repairs to a
back, flow prevention assembly, failing to demonstrate proper test procedures,
or demonstrating a lack of knowledge and/or professionalism in testing,
repairing, installing, and maintaining backflow prevention assemblies within
the city’s distributionsystem. Any certified tester habitually failing to
comply with the city’s cross-connection control manual will also be removed
from the list of certified testers. The SCDES Cross-Connection Control Program
Manager will also be notified, in writing, of any tester the city removes from
this list.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
Use Regulations
   
52.015   Unpolluted surface water prohibited
   
52.016   Storm sewers
   
52.017   Prohibited discharges
   
52.018   Connections; inspections and permits
   
52.019   Flow volume control
   
52.020   Holding tanks; interruptions of normal operations
   
52.021   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.022   Excess volume
   
52.023   Plans for facilities
   
52.024   Maintenance of facilities
   
52.025   Application for discharge; character of wastes
   
52.026   Changes in character of wastes
   
52.027   Analysis of wastes
   
52.028   Management of fats, oils and grease
   
52.029   Inspection manholes
   
52.030   Pretreatment methods; when required
Operations and Control
   
52.045   Right of entry for officials
   
52.046   Emergency powers of city
   
52.047   Sampling standards
   
52.048   Flow volume; measurement
   
52.049   Reduction in rates where water does not enter sewers
   
52.050   Connections; commercial and business buildings
   
52.051   Time for making
   
52.052   Septic tank systems where sewer not available
   
52.053   Application for connection
   
52.054   Service lines; specifications
   
52.055   Connection specifications
   
52.056   Permit required for connection
   
52.057   Service lines; city responsibility
   
52.058   Consumer's responsibility
   
52.059   Personnel
   
52.060   Filling of abandoned septic tanks
   
52.061   Sewage disposal means restricted
User Charges and Surcharges
   
52.075   Schedule of charges; costs included
   
52.076   Publication; basis
   
52.077   Application for service
   
52.078   Surcharges
   
52.079   Connection fees and impact fees
   
52.080   No free service; responsibility for payment
   
52.081   Basis for service charge
   
52.082   Change of property use; effect
Sanitary Sewer Extensions
   
52.095   Developments; responsibility for construction
   
52.096   Conveyance to city
   
52.097   Specifications
   
52.098   Approval of systems
   
52.099   Conveyance procedure
   
52.100   Owner's warranty; indemnification
   
52.101   Taps; location and time for making
   
52.102   Compatibility with existing system
   
52.103   Old building sewers; use
   
52.104   Extension of sewer service outside of Commercial Districts prohibited
without an affirmative vote of the City Council
Records Required
   
52.115   Separate system required
   
52.116   Maintenance
   
52.117   Annual audit
   
52.118   Annual budget
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT. Any building containing two or more single-family dwelling units
and having one sewer connection for all dwelling units.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Water and Sewer Department of the city.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Expressed in parts per million by weight,
the calculated pounds of oxygen required to satisfy the five-day oxygen demand
of a million pounds of domestic sewage or industrial wastes, or a combination
of both when tested in accordance with the procedures given in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage, published
by the American Public Health Association.
   BUILDING. Any improved property containing a structure which meets any one
of the classifications herein.
   BUSINESS. Any building used by the occupant for amusement, entertainment,
service, professional, retail trade or any other similar purposes except as
defined under “commercial” and “industrial.”
   CITY. The City Council or any duly authorized officials acting in its
behalf.
   COLOR. The “true color,” due to substances in solution which cause any
variation in the hue of the receiving stream and is expressed in wave lengths
of light.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL. Any hotel, motel, lodge, tourist home, efficiency apartment,
house or similar building operated primarily as a commercial enterprise for the
purpose of rental and lodging on a daily or weekly basis. For determination of
rates, each room or series of rooms made available to the general public as a
separate entity for overnight accommodation shall be classified as a “rental
unit.”
   CONDOMINIUM. One or more buildings containing two or more single-family
units owned individually and not provided with access by public streets or
roads and having one sewer connection for all units.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any residential subdivision, real estate development,
commercial, industrial or institutional complex.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Liquid waste from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens and
home laundries.
   EQUIVALENT UNIT. Equal to that number of single-family dwelling units. For
purpose of estab-lishing tap fee and billing cost, the following equivalents
shall be used. For purpose of establishing tap fee and billing cost, the
following equivalents shall be used:
      Description         Equivalent Unit
   (a)   Single-family dwelling unit      1.0
   (b)   Condominium dwelling unit      1.0
   (c)   Townhouse dwelling unit      1.0
   (d)   Apartment unit         1.0
   (e)   Hotel or motel
       Per room without restaurant      0.25
       Per room with restaurant      0.425
   (f)   Camp area-fixed unit
       Temporary site (daily or weekend
       rentals)            1.0
   (g)   Restaurant per seat         0.175
   (h)   Business or institutional:
       12,000 gallons/month      1.0
   (i)   Bars/Taverns
       Per seat or stool         0.15
   (j)   Laundry mat, per machine      1.0
   (k)   Boarding house with kitchen,
          per resident         0.25
   (l)   Churches            0.5
   (m)   Marinas, per slip         0.075
   (n)   Schools, day care, per person      0.025
   (o)   Grocery store (per 1,000 square
       feet)               0.5
       (grocery store shall have a
      minimum of one ERU)
   (p)   Non-profit organizations with
       a 401(3)(c) status         1.0
   GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from commercial and industrial
processes and operations, as distinct from domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL. Any building used by the occu- pant to manufacture, assemble or
process goods classified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual.
   INSTITUTION. Any building used as a hospital, church, school or similar
public facility.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Land used for the purpose of providing space to park
mobile homes whether on wheels or a foundation, designated to serve as living
quarters, whether permanent or occasional.
   MOTEL BEDROOM UNIT. Each room in a motel or hotel or similar building
operated primarily as a rental unit or lodging on a daily or weekly basis
normally used for sleeping.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building containing two or more single-
family dwelling units and having individual sewer con-nections to each dwelling
unit.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight expressed in pounds. One million pounds of
water or sewage equals approximately 120,000 gallons.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, corporation, institution
or group.
   pH. The logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution. A pH valve of 7.0 is considered neutral. A
stabilized pH will be considered as a pH which does not change beyond the
specified limits when the waste is subjected to aeration. pH below 7.0 is acid,
above alkaline.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties shall have
equal rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The body of water or stream of watercourse receiving the
discharge waters from the sewage treatment plant or formed by the discharge of
the sewage treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage or polluted industrial wastes
and to which storm, surface and ground waters or unpolluted industrial waste
are not intentionally admitted.
   SEPTIC TANK. A private domestic sewage treatment system consisting of an
underground tank, distribution box and drain field designed and constructed in
accordance with any or all existing local and state requirements.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement or device and structures for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with ground,
surface and storm water as may be naturally present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, conveying, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building, house or apartment unit, occupied
for living purposes by a single family and owned or leased by the occupant on a
continuing basis for 30 days or more per year.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWNHOUSE. One or more buildings containing two or more single-family units
owned individually and provided with, or adjacent to, public streets or roads
and having one sewer connection for each unit.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 20-00, passed 9-26-00; Am. Ord. 19-01, passed 9-18-
01)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.015 UNPOLLUTED SURFACE WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any sanitary sewers
any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial or commercial process water.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-11)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.016 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Storm water and surface drainage shall be admitted to only the sewers
as are specifically designated as storm sewers or storm drains.
   (B)   Unpolluted process and cooling waters may, upon written application
and approval by the approving authority, be discharged to storm sewers or storm
drains.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-12)
§ 52.017 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into any public
sanitary sewer.
   (A)   Any clothing, rags, textile, remnants or wastes, cloth, scraps and the
like, except fibers, scraps and the like, which will pass through a one-fourth
inch mesh screen or its equivalent in screening ability;
   (B)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 160° F.;
   (C)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fats, oils or grease;
   (D)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quality may cause fire or explosion, or be in any way injurious to persons, the
sewerage system, the sewage treatment works or the operation of the sewage
treatment works;
   (E)   Any liquid wastes in which the suspended solids exceed 400 parts per
million by weight;
   (F)   Any liquid wastes having a BOD of more than 250 parts per million
except as hereinafter provided for;
   (G)   Any water or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 6.0 or higher
than 8.5 or having other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing a poisonous or toxic substance or any
other materials in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process, or constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any
hazard in the receiving stream at the sewage treatment plant;
   (I)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the materials
in the sewerage system;
   (J)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (K)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (L)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, bones,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, butcher's offal or any other
solid or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewerage system;
   (M) Any materials which form excessive amounts of scum that may interfere
with the operation of the sewage treatment works or cause undue additional
labor in connection with its operation;
   (N)   Any waters or wastes containing dyes or other color which cannot be
removed by biological processes and which require special chemical treatment;
and
   (O)   Any waters or wastes containing lint in quantities as to be
detrimental to sewer lines, sewage pumps or sewage treatment works.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-13)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.018 CONNECTIONS; INSPECTIONS AND PERMITS.
   The city shall reserve the right to inspect and grant permission for all
connections to the sewerage system and require the payment of a tap fee before
permission to connect can be granted to any person. The tap fee shall be as
specified herein.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-21)
§ 52.019 FLOW VOLUME CONTROL.
   Any sewage discharged by any person, which has an average working day flow
greater than 5,000 gallons if tributary to the sewage pumping stations or 5,000
gallons is tributary to the main gravity system may be admitted into the
sanitary sewers provided the sewage is discharged at rates which will not
overload the sewerage system.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-22)
§ 52.020 HOLDING TANKS; INTERRUPTIONS OF NORMAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Where necessary in the opinion of the approving authority, and
whenever the total volume of sewage to be discharged by any person in any one
day shall exceed the limits set forth above, the person may be required, at no
expense to the city, to construct holding or storage tanks in order to equalize
the discharge over a 24-hour period. The tanks shall be so equipped as to
thoroughly mix the sewage so that its quality shall be uniform when discharged
to the public sewers.
   (B)   The control of the volume of discharge of the sewage to the sewer
shall be by a waterworks type rate controller or other approved device, the
operation and setting of which shall be directed by the approving authority.
Notice shall be given the approving authority when normal operations of the
person will be interrupted for 24 hours, or longer, and wastes will not be
available for discharge.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-23)
§ 52.021 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Whenever the waste characteristics of sewage being discharged by any person
exceed those requirements of § 52.017, or where necessary in the opinion of the
approving authority, the person discharging sewage shall construct or cause to
be constructed at no expense to the city the preliminary handling or treatment
as may be required to:
   (A)   Reduce the BOD to 250 parts per million by weight, and the suspended
solids to 400 parts per million by weight; or
   (B)   Change the objectionable characteristics or constituents to come
within the maximum limits provided for in §
52.017.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-24)
§ 52.022 EXCESS VOLUME.
   Where the volume of any sewage discharged by any person exceeds the limits
set forth under §
52.019, the entire volume of the wastes shall be understood to come within the
requirements set forth under §
52.020.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-25)
§ 52.023 PLANS FOR FACILITIES.
   Plans, specifications and other pertinent infor-mation relating to proposed
preliminary treatment or handling facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the approving authority and no construction of the facilities shall
be commenced until the approval is obtained in writing.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-26)
§ 52.024 MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or holding facilities are provided for any
purpose, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation at no cost to the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-27)
§ 52.025 APPLICATION FOR DISCHARGE; CHARACTER OF WASTES.
   Any person who is now discharging any sewage into the city's public sewers
may be required to make written application to the approving authority giving
complete information as to the nature and characteristic sewage as determined
by an analysis of a composite sample of the waste made by an independent
laboratory.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-28)
§ 52.026 CHANGES IN CHARACTER OF WASTES.
   Any person having been granted authority by the approving authority to
discharge sewage into the city's public sewers and who shall change or cause to
be changed the nature or quantity of the sewage, shall before making the
change, receive the approval of the approving authority of the change and may
be required to furnish the approving authority a complete analysis of a
composite sample of the sewage as determined by an independent laboratory.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-29)
§ 52.027 ANALYSIS OF WASTES.
   Any person who should wish to make the connection and to discharge the
sewage as described above shall make written application to the approving
authority, with a complete analysis of a composite sample of the sewage as
determined by an independent laboratory, in addition to compliance with all
other sections of this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-30)
§ 52.028 SEPARATORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand separators or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the approving authority, they are necessary for the proper
handling and control of liquid wastes containing grease, oil or sand in
excessive amounts.
   (B)   The separators shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units, but may be required for certain industrial or commercial
establishments, public eating places, hospitals, hotels, schools or other
institutions.
   (C)   The separators shall be readily accessible for inspection by the
approving authority and shall be maintained and cleaned by the person at no
expense to the city and in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-31)
§ 52.029 INSPECTION MANHOLES.
   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers may be
required to construct and maintain a suitable control or inspection manhole
either downstream from any pretreatment storage or other approved works, or if
pretreatment is not required, at the point where the sewage enters the public
sewers. The manhole shall be located so as to be readily accessible and shall
be constructed in a manner as may be approved by the approving authority so as
to facilitate the inspection or measuring as may be necessary for proper
sampling and/or control of the waste discharged.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-32)
§ 52.030 PRETREATMENT METHODS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Any industrial user whose wastewater characteristics contain incompatible or
toxic pollutants in excess of those established by regulations of the EPA shall
provide pretreatment of the waste by the method of best practical treatment.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-33)
OPERATIONS AND CONTROL
§ 52.045 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR OFFICIALS.
   The approving authority and duly authorized representatives of the city,
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-41)
§ 52.046 EMERGENCY POWERS OF CITY.
   In the interest of the public health and safety, the approving authority and
duly authorized representatives, shall be permitted to take emergency action as
may be deemed necessary in the operation of the sewerage system including, but
not limited to the right to close down any sewer or portion of the sewerage
system for the purpose of making connections, alterations or repairs.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-42)
§ 52.047 SAMPLING STANDARDS.
   (A)   All tests and analyses of the characteristics of sewage to which
reference is made in this chapter shall be made in accordance with the
procedures given in the latest edition of Standard Methods for Examination of
Water and Sewage, as revised, published by the American Public Health
Association.
   (B)   Tests and analysis shall be determined at the control manhole provided
for in §
52.029, or at the point of discharge of any sewage at the site of their origin
on the premises of any person discharging the sewage into the sewers.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-43)
§ 52.048 FLOW VOLUME; MEASUREMENT.
   The volume of flow used in computing sewer user charges and surcharges shall
be based upon metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the Water Department.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-44)
§ 52.049 REDUCTION IN RATES WHERE WATER DOES NOT ENTER SEWERS.
   In the event that a person discharging waste into the sanitary system
produces evidence that more than 10% of his or her water does not enter the
sewer system, the user may apply for a reduction in the flow used to calculate
his or her sewer use charge.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-45)
§ 52.050 CONNECTIONS; COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS BUILDINGS.
   Every commercial/business building which is located within the commercial
district abutting any sewer main operated and maintained by the city shall be
connected thereto.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-46)
§ 52.051 TIME FOR MAKING.
   Existing buildings which are provided with access, as described in §
52.050, shall connect to the sewer main within a period of 90 days from the
date of completion of the sewer main or at the time as directed by the County
Department of Health upon notice that the existing means of waste disposal is a
community health hazard and violation of federal, state or county law.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-47)
§ 52.052 SEPTIC TANK SYSTEMS WHERE SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where no public sewer exists within the limitation of §
52.050 or where connection is technically im-practical, the owner of the
property may apply for a permit to construct and operate a septic tank system
as approved by the County Department of Health, and further provided that the
septic tank system is properly maintained so as to eliminate hazard to public
health.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-48)
§ 52.053 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   Any person desiring connection to be made with the sewerage system shall
make application on an appropriate form at the Department of Water, which shall
be accompanied by appropriate connection fee.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-49)
§ 52.054 SERVICE LINES; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sewer service lines shall conform to the requirements of the approving
authority on location, size, type, materials and methods used and shall be
inspected and approved by the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-50)
§ 52.055 CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The size and connection fee of all services shall be governed by the
number of individual units to be served by the same connection.
   (B)   Single-family dwelling units and apartments or duplexes containing
less than four single-family dwelling units shall have a four-inch connection
minimum.
   (C)   Multi-family units containing more than four single-family dwelling
units shall have a connection sized upon the equivalent number of bedrooms and
flow as specified by the State Department of Health and Environmental Control
criteria or Southern Standard Building Code whichever is greater.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-51)
§ 52.056 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or undertake to make or cause to
be made any connection to the sewerage system without first having made
application and received approval.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-52)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.057 SERVICE LINES; CITY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   When application has been made under the terms of this chapter, the
city shall provide the necessary service to the customer at the point of street
right-of-way or property line of easement established for the sewer main.
   (B)   The line shall be owned and maintained by the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-53)
§ 52.058 CONSUMER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Service lines from the street right-of-way of property line of the easement
shall be installed, owned and maintained by the customer subject to regulations
given in this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-54)
§ 52.059 PERSONNEL.
   The city shall provide personnel to operate the system in number and of
skill as required by the rules and regulations of the State Department of
Health and Environmental Control and the EPA.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-55)
§ 52.060 FILLING OF ABANDONED SEPTIC TANKS.
   The owners of any property which has tapped into the sewer system shall,
within 30 days, pump out and fill in their unused septic tank and render it
permeable.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-56) (Ord. 86-6, passed 3-4-86)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.061 SEWAGE DISPOSAL MEANS RESTRICTED.
   Spray irrigation and other similar forms of dealing with sewerage by the use
of holding ponds, lagoons or spraying the semi-treated effluent are prohibited
in the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-57) (Ord. 86-19, passed 6-17-86)
USER CHARGES AND SURCHARGES
§ 52.075 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES; COSTS INCLUDED.
   The city shall, at least annually, adopt an adequate schedule of sewer
service charges to defray the cost of operating and maintaining the sanitary
sewerage system. The costs to be used as a basis of determining charges shall
include, but is not necessarily limited to direct operation and maintenance,
administration, collection and billing of charges, bond redemption, studies and
reports, professional fees, repairs, capital improvements and depreciation. The
sewer service charges adopted shall be such that each user pays at least their
proportionate share of all cost herein noted.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-61)
§ 52.076 PUBLICATION; BASIS.
   The sewer service charges shall be published in a form for public
distribution by mail to each customer's billing address and notice shall become
a part of this chapter upon adoption and public notification, and shall be
based on the cost of treatment per 1,000 gallons of sewage.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-62)
§ 52.077 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Only property owners shall be allowed to apply for residential sewer service
or for the transfer of residential sewer service. Tenants or renters shall not
be allowed to apply for this service or for the transfer of this service. Each
new customer shall pay an account transfer fee which shall be established by
City Council.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-63) (Ord. 84-13, passed 10-16-84; Am. Ord. 85-18, passed 8-20-
85; Am. Ord. 88-6, passed 3-1-88; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 2-11-03; Am. Ord. 12-
17, passed 5-9-17)
§ 52.078 SURCHARGES.
   A surcharge covering the cost of treatment of excessive industrial wastes
shall be determined in the following manner:
   (A)   The approving authority shall fix the rate to be charged during the
new fiscal year, at the beginning of the fiscal year, for the excess BOD or
suspended solids, from actual costs per 1,000 pounds removed from the combined
domestic and industrial wastes as experienced at the sewage treatment plant(s)
during the preceding fiscal year.
   (B)   The rate shall be applied to the amount of excessive BOD and suspended
solids as determined by averaging at least three waste discharge samples taken
in accordance with provisions of §§
52.047 and
52.048.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-64)
§ 52.079 CONNECTION FEES AND IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Connection fees to the sewer system shall be based upon size, as
determined under §
52.055, and the following for those inside the city limits.
   (B)   Single building connection.
 
Size                 Connection Fee
Four-inch connection $625
Six-inch connection  $690
Over six inches      $1,250
 
   (C)   Single owner apartments and duplexes on one connection shall be
charged only $625 for all single-family dwelling units.
   (D)   Condominiums and townhouses on one connection shall be charged $625
for the first single- family dwelling unit, plus $625 for each additional unit
served by the same connection.
   (E)   Motels on one connection shall be charged $625, plus $315 per bedroom
unit served by the same connection.
   (F)   Camp areas on one connection shall be charged $625, plus $315 per each
space provided therefor.
   (G)   Business or industrial users on one connection shall be charged a
connection fee in accordance with the connection size, plus $625 for each
equivalent unit of flow (6,000 gallons/month) to be discharged by the user.
   (H)   All impact fees, connection fees and/or additional fees or costs
imposed by James Island Public Service District (JIPSD), Charleston Public
Works (CPW) or any other entity and charged to the city or any future fees
imposed by the city, shall be the sole responsibility of the developer or owner
of new equivalent units. These fees shall be due and payable prior to the new
equivalent units being connected to the water and sewer system. The sewer
impact fee per equivalent resident unit (ERU shall be $1,250/ERU.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-65) (Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 16-00, passed - -
00; Am. Ord. 22-00, passed 11-28-00; Am. Ord. 05-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord.
12-15, passed 7-14-15)
§ 52.080 NO FREE SERVICE; RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   No property to which the public sewer is connected shall be exempt
from paying the charges as set forth in §
52.081; provided that one sewer tap for buildings used exclusively for church
purposes shall be made available without cost for each denomination.
   (B)   All owners of property to which the public sewer is connected shall be
considered the user and shall be responsible for all charges including the
minimum charge regardless of who applies for the service and regardless of the
fact that service has been discontinued for convenience or otherwise. Service
will not be connected, reconnected or supplied until all charges, including the
minimum charge, have been paid in full.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-66) (Ord. 84-13, passed 10-16-84; Am. Ord. 86-45, passed 12-
16-86)
Penalty, see § 52.999
§ 52.081 BASIS FOR SERVICE CHARGE.
   The sewer service charge for operation and maintenance of the system shall
be based upon the monthly use of water as given under §
52.077, in accordance with the rates set forth by Council.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-67) (Am. Ord. 19-98, passed 9-1-98; Am. Ord. 19-00, passed - -
00; Am. Ord. 05-02, passed 6-25-2002; Am. Ord. 32-11, passed 1-10-12; Am. Ord.
22-15, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 28-16, passed 9-13-16)
§ 52.082 CHANGE OF PROPERTY USE; EFFECT.
   (A)   Whenever the use of a property changes so that the new use has a
higher ERU (equivalent residential units), as calculated in this chapter, the
owner shall be liable to the city for the difference in the tap fees which the
owner had paid for the old use and the tap fees as calculated for the new use.
   (B)   (1)   Payment of this tap fee shall be made within ten days of the
change of use.
      (2)   Failure to pay this fee shall be treated as a failure to pay a
sewer or water bill with the consequences as stated in this chapter.
   (C)   The sewer billing account for the property shall be adjusted so that
the user is charged the appropriate ERUs reflecting the current use.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-68) (Ord. 86-7, passed 3-4-86)
SANITARY SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 52.095 DEVELOPMENTS; RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Construction of sanitary sewerage systems in any new development shall be
the responsibility of any person performing the development.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-81)
§ 52.096 CONVEYANCE TO CITY.
   Sanitary sewers constructed within new develop-ments may be conveyed to the
city provided all sewers are located within public right-of-way or easements of
adequate widths to provide maintenance vehicle access.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-82)
§ 52.097 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any new development proposing to build sanitary sewers or extensions
to existing sanitary sewers which will connect directly or indirectly into the
city's sanitary sewerage system shall conform its plans and specifications to
the requirements of the approving authority.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall be prepared by a registered
engineer who is authorized by the laws of the state and approved or approvable
by any and all local, county and state authorities having jurisdiction.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-83)
§ 52.098 APPROVAL OF SYSTEMS.
   Approval of systems shall be accomplished in accordance with the following
procedure:
   (A)   Submit preliminary construction plans to the approving authority in
sufficient detail to indicate location, system layout, line sizes, service con-
nections, flows, character of sewage, relationship with and connection to the
city's system or other disposal system;
   (B)   Receive preliminary approval from city and other jurisdictional
agencies;
   (C)   Prepare construction drawings and docu- ments for city's approval;
   (D)   Secure all other agency approvals of con- struction drawings and
contract documents;
   (E)   Upon receipt of all approvals, proceed with construction, notifying
the approving authority of construction schedules;
   (F)   Provide the approving authority and its authorized representatives
with permission for on-site inspection during construction; and
   (G)   Upon completion of construction, the engineer employed by the
development shall inspect and furnish to the approving authority at no cost to
the city, his or her certificate of completion indicating that the subject
sewerage system has been constructed in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications, and shall provide four copies of “as constructed” drawings.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-84)
§ 52.099 CONVEYANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Sewerage systems to be conveyed to the city will be done by the owner
preparing and submitting to the city an instrument of conveyance, conveying the
constructed system to the city at no cost to the city and the system shall
thereafter be owned, operated and maintained by the city as provided for in
this chapter.
   (B)   The instrument of conveyance shall also include permanent easements
and rights-of-way fully described and duly recorded at the appropriate
authority.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-85)
§ 52.100 OWNER'S WARRANTY; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The owner or his or her authorized agent shall submit a warranty which
is a legal instrument in which the owner warrants the materials, equipment and
construction of the system for 12 months.
   (B)   The owner shall further warrant to the approving authority that all
fees have been paid by him or her such that there is no outstanding
indebtedness remaining and holding the city harmless.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-86)
§ 52.101 TAPS; LOCATION AND TIME FOR MAKING.
   (A)   All sewer taps shall be made during construction from the main out to
the property line.
   (B)   Location of all taps shall be recorded on the “as constructed”
drawings.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-87)
§ 52.102 COMPATIBILITY WITH EXISTING SYSTEM.
   All system extensions must be compatible with present and future plans and
needs of the city.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-88)
§ 52.103 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; USE.
   Old building sewers may not be used in connection with service to new
buildings, unless it can be proved to the city that the material meets all the
requirements for a suitable installation.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-89)
§ 52.104 EXTENSION OF SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE OF COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS PROHIBITED
WITHOUT AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   Sewer service shall not be extended outside of the existing Downtown
Commercial (DC) and Island Commercial (IC) Districts to serve any additional
buildings or residential units except residential units adjacent to the
existing taps on the original gravity sewer line at the time of this section
without an affirmative vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 29-99, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 14-00, passed 7-11-00; Am. Ord. 06-03,
passed 4-22-03; Am. Ord. 03-14, passed 2-11-14)
RECORDS REQUIRED
§ 52.115 SEPARATE SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The city shall keep separate from other business the records of the sewerage
system.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-101)
§ 52.116 MAINTENANCE.
   All records of business transactions, billings and receipt of funds shall be
maintained by the City Administrator in accordance with the bond ordinances
governing the system.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-102)
§ 52.117 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   All annual audit of the sewer records shall be prepared by a qualified
public accountant.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-103)
§ 52.118 ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The City Council shall prepare an annual budget for the sewer system based
upon the audit and establish charges as may be necessary to fund the budget in
accordance with this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-104)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue sewer service to
any person as set forth in § 54.14.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-111)
   (B)   Delinquent charges; reconnection fees. Sewer charges not paid by the
last day of the month following the date of billing shall have a 10% penalty
added to the bill which shall be paid and shall be as set forth in § 54.14.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-112)
   (C)   Penalties; continued violations. Failure to comply with this chapter
shall subject the person to a penalty of not less than $100 per day and payment
of all damages incurred to the sewerage system as a result of noncompliance.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-113)
   (D)   Emergency powers. The city, through its duly qualified officers,
reserves the right to take immediate action for emergencies not specifically
covered herein, as they may deem necessary in the interest of public health and
safety and further reserves the right to amend this chapter, in part or in
whole, whenever it may deem necessary, but the right will be exercised only in
the manner established or prescribed for the matters, including but not limited
to public notice 15 days prior to final action.
(`95 Code, § 4-2-114)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
Stormwater Management Utility
   
53.01   Subchapter designation and authority
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Establishment of Stormwater Management Utility; administration; powers
and duties
   
53.04   Boundaries; jurisdiction
   
53.05   Regulation of land disturbing activity
   
53.06   Fees
   
53.07   Investment and reinvestment of funds; borrowing
   
53.08   Billing of fee; delinquency
   
53.09   Written notice of objection
   
53.10   Petition for relief
   
53.11   Enforcement
   
53.12   Liability
Stormwater Management Utility Fees
   
53.20   Fee; classification of property
   
53.21   Determination of amount
   
53.22   Adjustment of fee
   
53.23   Duration of fee
   
53.24   Billing; late charges
Stormwater Management Program (SWMP)
   
53.30   Definitions
   
53.31   Authority
   
53.32   Jurisdiction
   
53.33   Purposes
   
53.34   Construction; scope
   
53.35   Relationship with other laws, regulations and ordinances
   
53.36   Amendments
   
53.37   SWMP adoption
   
53.38   Coordination with other agencies
   
53.39   Right of entry
   
53.40   Regulations
   
53.41   Prohibitions; exemptions
   
53.42   Design and engineering standards
   
53.43   Construction activity approval process
   
53.44   Stormwater Program Permitting Standards and Procedures Manual
   
53.45   Maintenance; construction; inspection; notice of termination
   
53.46   Watercourse protection
   
53.47   Notification of spills
   
53.48   Illicit connections; illicit discharges; improper disposal
   
53.49   Detection of illicit connections and improper disposal
   
53.50   Waste disposal prohibitions
   
53.51   Discharges in violation of NPDES general permit for stormwater
discharges associated with industrial activity permit
   
53.52   Monitoring
   
53.53   Inspections
   
53.54   Enforcement
   
53.55   Additional legal measures
   
53.56   Corrective action
   
53.57   Stop work order
   
53.58   Approval suspension and revocation
   
53.59   Design criteria
   
53.60   Appeals process
   
53.61   Funding
   
53.62   Connection to conveyances
   
53.63   Plan review
   
53.64   Field inspection
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see
Ch. 150
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY
§ 53.01 SUBCHAPTER DESIGNATION AND AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter may be cited as the Stormwater Management Utility Subchapter
and is adopted pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 72-300 et seq. and §§ 5-31-10 et seq.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise stated herein or the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the meaning of the words and terms used in this subchapter shall be
as set forth in S.C. Code §§ 48-10-20 and 72-301.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the city.
      CITY COUNCIL. The elected officials of the City of Folly Beach, South
Carolina.
      DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the city.
      EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A unit of measure which relates a typical
single family residential property to all other properties.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND FACILITIES. Those natural and man-made
channels, swales, ditches, swamps, rivers, streams, creeks, branches,
reservoirs, ponds, drainage ways, inlets, catch basins, pipes, head walls,
storm sewers, lakes and other physical works, properties, and improvements
which transfer, control, convey, or otherwise influence the movement of
stormwater runoff.
      UTILITY CUSTOMER. The owner of record of real property.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY; ADMINISTRATION; POWERS
AND DUTIES.
   City Council hereby establishes a Stormwater Management Utility (the
“Utility”) to carry out the purposes, functions and responsibilities set forth
herein. The governing body of the Utility shall be City Council. The Director
of Public Works shall administer the Utility under the city’s Department of
Public Works, provided, however, that City Council may delegate some or all of
the Director of Public Works’s duties hereunder to Charleston County or its
duly authorized representatives pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement
providing for same. The Utility shall have the powers and duties set forth
below, which powers are not necessarily exclusive to the Utility, to wit:
   (A)   Stormwater management planning and preparation of comprehensive
watershed master plans for stormwater management;
   (B)   Regular inspections of public and private stormwater management
facilities and measures and the construction thereof;
   (C)   Maintenance and improvements of stormwater management facilities that
have been accepted by the city for that purpose;
   (D)   Plan review and inspection for sediment control and stormwater
management plans, measures, and practices;
   (E)   Retrofitting designated watersheds to reduce existing flooding
problems or to improve water quality;
   (F)   Acquisition of interests in land, including easements;
   (G)   Design and construction of stormwater management facilities and
measures and acquisition of equipment;
   (H)   Water quantity and water quality management, including monitoring and
surveillance;
   (I)   Billing and collecting a stormwater management utility fee shall be
pursuant to §§
53.20 through
53.24 that set forth the amount of the fees;
   (J)   Make reasonable regulations relating to the administration of this
subchapter;
   (K)   Any and all powers and duties delegated or granted to it as a local
government implementing agency under the laws and regulations of the State of
South Carolina and the ordinances of the city; and
   (L)   Entering into intergovernmental agreements with the County of
Charleston to provide for the county and its duly authorized representatives to
assist the city in the implementation and administration of the Utility,
enforcement of the ordinances or other regulations governed by the Utility, and
the implementation, billing, collection and expenditure of the city’s
stormwater management fees.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.04 BOUNDARIES; JURISDICTION.
   The boundaries and jurisdiction of the Stormwater Management Utility shall
encompass all area contained within the corporate boundaries of the city, as
they may exist from time to time.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.05 REGULATION OF LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY.
   City Council shall establish by ordinance a program regulating land
disturbing activities, including, but not limited to, provisions for reviewing
and approving stormwater management and sediment control plans, creating design
requirements for such plans and land disturbing activities, and providing
operational maintenance requirements for stormwater management facilities and
measures.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.06 FEES.
   (A)   City Council shall establish by ordinance the amounts and
classifications of stormwater management utility fees to be implemented to help
fund the Utility and its programs and projects.
   (B)   City Council shall consider, among other things, the following
criteria in establishing fees:
      (1)   The fee system shall be reasonable and equitable so that users pay
to the extent they contribute to the need from the Utility, and the fee shall
be apportioned with approximate equality and upon a reasonable basis of
equality with due regards for the benefits conferred. City Council recognizes
that these benefits, while substantial, in many cases cannot be measured
directly.
      (2)   The components of the calculations used to establish fees shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following cost factors:
         (a)   Stormwater management planning and preparation of comprehensive
watershed master plans for stormwater management;
         (b)   Regular inspections of public and private stormwater management
facilities and measures and the construction thereof;
         (c)   Maintenance and improvements of stormwater management facilities
that have been accepted by the city for that purpose;
         (d)   Plan review and inspection for sediment control and stormwater
management plans, measures, and practices;
         (e)    Retrofitting designated watersheds to reduce exiting flooding
problems or to improve water quality;
         (f)   Acquisition of interest of land, including easements;
         (g)   Design and construction of stormwater management facilities and
measures and acquisition of equipment;
         (h)   Administration of enforcement;
         (i)   Water quantity and water quality management, including
monitoring and surveillance; and
         (j)   Debt service and financing costs.
      (3)   The practical difficulties and limitations related to establishing,
calculating, and administering such fees.
      (4)   The components of the calculations used to establish fees shall be
based on an equivalent residential unit, to be determined and approved by City
Council with reasonable general adjustments being made for, but not limited to,
the following factors:
         (a)   Land use;
         (b)   Lot or tract size;
         (c)   The amount of site that is impervious; and
         (d)   Other generally accepted factors relevant to such calculations
based upon the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Pending the adoption of a permanent fee system and rate structure,
City Council may adopt an interim fee system and rate structure to help fund
the establishment of the Utility, pending the completion and adoption of a
Stormwater Utility Rate Study.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.07 INVESTMENT AND REINVESTMENT OF FUNDS; BORROWING.
   Funds generated for the Stormwater Management Utility from fees, bond
issues, other borrowing, and other sources shall be utilized only for those
purposes for which the Utility has been established, including but not limited
to: planning; acquisition of interests in land including easements; design and
construction of facilities; maintenance of the stormwater system, billing and
administration; and water quality and water quantity management, including
monitoring, surveillance, private maintenance inspection, construction
inspection and other activities which are reasonably required. Such funds may
be invested and reinvested pursuant to the same procedures and practices
established by the city for investment and reinvestment of funds. City Council
may use any form of borrowing authorized by the laws of the State of South
Carolina to fund capital acquisitions or expenditures for the Stormwater
Management Utility.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.08 BILLING OF FEE; DELINQUENCY.
   City Council shall establish by ordinance the method of billing for the fee,
any late payment fees, and the manner of collecting unpaid fees.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.09 WRITTEN NOTICE OF OBJECTION.
   (A)   (1)   A utility customer may request a reconsideration of any
determination or interpretation by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee in the operation of the Stormwater Management Utility. Such request
must be in writing specifically explaining the grounds for the request
including the following:
         (a)   TMS # for the property;
         (b)   Utility customer information: name, address, and telephone
number;
         (c)   A statement outlining the reasons for the appeal, including any
law or authority, upon which the utility customer relies;
         (d)   A statement of facts supporting the utility customer’s position;
and
         (e)   The amount which the utility customer considers the fair amount
of the fee.
      (2)   The written request is a notice of objection for purposes of the
section. The failure to serve written request within the time period
constitutes a waiver of the utility customer’s right of protest for that year.
   (B)    Request for reconsideration of the annual fee amounts shall be
submitted within 30 days after the date the fee shall be due and payable.
   (C)   In cases where the applicant believes the fee to be inappropriate
based on the actual impervious area of the property in which he or she has an
interest, the applicant should submit technical data such as a site survey of
the property to assist in the evaluation. The survey should be prepared by a
licensed land surveyor in accordance with the minimum state survey standards.
The survey should include the following:
      (1)   Property boundary;
      (2)   Parking areas;
      (3)   Driveway(s);
      (4)   Building(s);
      (5)   Storm drainage facilities;
      (6)   Any other surface improvements;
      (7)   Calculation of total impervious area;
      (8)   Calculation of total pervious area; and
      (9)   Date when the field survey was conducted.
   (D)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall render a
written decision on the request within 30 business days of the receipt of the
written request for reconsideration.
   (E)   The utility customer may appeal the decision to the city’s
Construction Board of Appeals within 30 days after the date of the decision.
The Director of Public Works shall provide the petition form to the utility
customer.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.10 PETITION FOR RELIEF.
   (A)   The petition must be accompanied with a $25 fee that will be used to
partially defray the costs incurred in connection with the administration of
petitions filed pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall hear the petition to determine
if the annual stormwater management utility fee does not apportion the fee with
approximate equality, based upon a reasonable basis of classification and with
due regard to the benefits conferred by providing stormwater management
services to the utility customer and the requirements of public health, safety
or welfare. The determination of the annual fee by the Construction Board of
Appeals is entitled to a presumption of correctness, and the petitioner has the
burden of rebutting the presumption of correctness.
   (C)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall render a written decision on
each petition that is heard, and such written decision shall be issued within
20 calendar days from the day the Board heard the petition. The decision of the
Construction Board of Appeals shall contain findings of fact and conclusions of
law, and the decision shall be sent to the petitioner by first class mail.
   (D)   The decision of the Construction Board of Appeals shall be final
unless the petitioner appeals the decision to the Circuit Court in Charleston
County within 30 days after the date of the decision of the Construction Board
of Appeals. Prior to bringing an action to contest an annual fee, the
petitioner shall pay to the Treasurer not less than the amount of the annual
fee which he or she admits in good faith is owing. Payment of the fee shall not
be deemed an admission that the annual fee was due and shall not prejudice the
petitioner in bringing an action as provided herein.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director of Public Works and such other officials as the City
Administrator shall designate shall be the Enforcement Officers to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.12 LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter and any action or failure to act under this
subchapter shall or may be construed to;
   (A)   Impose any liability on the city, or its departments, agencies,
offices or employees for the recovery of damages; or
   (B)   Relieve any person engaged in a land disturbing activity of duties,
obligations, responsibilities, or liabilities arising from or incident to
operations associated with such activity or imposed by provisions of this
subchapter or the laws and regulations pursuant to which it was adopted.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY FEES
§ 53.20 FEE; CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   For purposes of determining the fee, all real property in the city is
classified as follows:
      (1)   Residential per TMS number;
      (2)   Vacant; and
      (3)   Commercial;
   (B)   Base rate. The base rate shall be $72 dollars annually. In no case
shall a utility customer be billed a fee for less than one half the base rate.
   (C)   Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). 
The commonly accepted rate unit for stormwater utilities is the ERU. This is a
descriptive value based on the land classification type and the amount of
impervious surface. The ERU is used to relate a rate charged for a typical
residential property and this becomes the common denominator by which
commercial properties are evaluated. The ERU for Charleston County has been
determined to be 3,000 square feet.
   (D)   Annual fees. Annual lees for all property shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential property by TMS number. Single-family residential
property shall be charged a fee equal to the base rate times one ERU,
regardless of the size of the parcel or improvements (impervious area).
      (2)   Vacant property. Vacant property shall be charged a fee equal to
the base rate times one half ERU regardless of the size of the parcel.
      (3)   Commercial property. Commercial property shall be charged the base
rate multiplied by the numerical factor obtained by dividing the total
impervious area of the property, as determined by the Director of Public Works
or an authorized designee, by one ERU (3,000 square feet). The numerical factor
will be rounded to the nearest tenth of a unit. The minimum fee for any
commercial property shall be the base rate times one half ERU. Those commercial
properties with impervious area greater than one-half ERU (1,500 square feet)
and less than one ERU (3,000 square feet) shall be charged the base rate times
one ERU.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. 19-16, passed 7-12-16)
§ 53.21 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT.
   (A)   Computation of stormwater management utility fee.
      (1)   Determine base rate to assign ERU;
      (2)   Determine the impervious area on the property;
      (3)   Calculate the numerical factor for the property in question by
dividing the impervious area by one ERU (3,000 square feet); and
      (4)   Calculate the annual stormwater management utility fee by
multiplying the numerical factor by the base rate, if the factor is greater
than one.
   (B)   Example calculation. Calculation of monthly fee for a 1.50 acre
commercial property with a determined impervious area of 32,500 square feet.
      (1)   1 ERU = 3,000 square feet;
      (2)   Property impervious area = 32,500 square feet;
      (3)   ERU's for example property = 32,500 square feet of impervious/1 ERU
of 3,000 square feet = 10.8 ERU's;
      (4)   Utility fee = ERU's x base rate = 10.8 ERU's x example base rate of
$72.00 = $777.60/ year.
   (C)   The classification of real property and the identification of the
utility customer for the purpose of determining fees shall be determined from
the records of the Charleston County Tax Assessor's Office. The utility
customer and the fee are based on the classification record of the real
property as of January 1 of the year of billing and each year subsequently
thereafter. Where the tax records are incomplete or ambiguous, a physical
inspection of the real property shall be made to determine the use of the
property. Upon development of the County's database and review of the real
properties on a case-by-case basis, the classifications from the records of the
Charleston County Tax Assessor's Office do not preclude an adjustment to the
data that the County uses to determine the fee.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. 19-16, passed 7-12-16)
§ 53.22 ADJUSTMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   In cases where the utility customer disputes the fee based on the
actual impervious area of the real property in which he or she has interest, a
notice of objection may be filed with the Director of Public Works as outlined
§
53.09; provided, however, that City Council many delegate the Director of
Public Works’ responsibilities hereunder to Charleston County or its duly
authorized representatives pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement providing
for same.
   (B)   Where an adjustment of the fee is warranted, the Director of Public
Works shall recalculate and re-determine the fee using equivalent ERU’s that is
based on the total impervious areas of the real property at issue.
   (C)   Where deemed appropriate and at the discretion of the Director of
Public Works, the gross acreage of the real property may be adjusted as a means
of recalculating and re-determining the fee. This method is applied in cases
where the property is large and the ratio of pervious area to impervious area
is low. The Director of Public Works and the utility customer shall mutually
agree on the general area of improvement. In cases where a mutual agreement
cannot be reached, the utility customer may file a notice of objection as
referenced above.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. 19-16, passed 7-12-16)
§ 53.23 DURATION OF FEE.
   The fees established by this subchapter have been adopted by City Council.
This fee will be reviewed, evaluated, and amended as necessary in order to
address County stormwater program needs/deficiencies and Small Municipal
Separate Storm Sewer System (SMS4) general permit requirements.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. 19-16, passed 7-12-16)
§ 53.24 BILLING; LATE CHARGES.
   The fee shall not be prorated. No refunds of the fee shall be made except as
set forth in this subchapter. The fee shall be billed annually, with the bill
mailed to each owner of record of real property as of January 1 of each year
and subsequently thereafter. For non-payment of all or any part of the utility
fee, the monetary penalty shall be the same penalty set forth in S.C. § 12-45-
180. If any fee shall remain 60 days after the due date, the County may issue a
lien upon the parcel for the stormwater utility fee, penalties and costs of
collection and shall proceed to collect in the same manner as prescribed by law
for the collection of other fees and taxes.
(Ord. 22-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. 19-16, passed 7-12-16)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (SWMP)
§ 53.30 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise stated herein or the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the meaning of the words and terms used in this subchapter shall be
as set forth in S.C. Code §§ 48-10-20 and 72-301.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. A person, firm, corporation, limited liability company,
governmental agency, partnership, or any other entity who seeks to obtain
approval under the requirements of this subchapter and who will be responsible
for the land disturbing activity and related maintenance thereof.
      AS-BUILT DRAWINGS. Revised construction drawings that depict the final,
installed location of the new facilities on a project, including the stormwater
system. AS-BUILT DRAWINGS and RECORD DRAWINGS shall be synonymous.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Any structural or non-structural
measures or facilities used for the control of stormwater runoff, whether for
quantity or quality control. BMPs also include schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and other management practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, drainage from raw material
storage, or otherwise prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the State.
      CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activity involving clearing,
grading, transporting, filling, or any other activity which causes land to be
exposed to the danger of erosion, or which might create an alteration to any
existing drainage way or other component of the city’s stormwater system or
facility.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY APPLICATION. The application, set of drawings,
specifications, design calculations, SWPPP, and other documents necessary to
demonstrate compliance with this subchapter.
      DEVELOPER. Any person, or others who act on his or her behalf, who is
required to submit an application for approval to disturb land or encroachment
and is thereafter responsible for maintaining compliance with this subchapter
and conditions of the approved application.
      EASEMENT. An authorization by a property owner to the general public or a
person or persons for the use of any designated part of his or her property for
a specific purpose.
      EROSION. The general process by which soils or rock fragments are
detached and moved by the action of wind, water, ice, or gravity.
      FLOOD/FLOODING. A temporary rise in the level of water which results in
the inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water.
      ILLICIT CONNECTION. A connection to a city stormwater management system
or facility which results in a discharge that is not composed entirely of
stormwater runoff except discharges pursuant to an NPDES permit (other than the
NPDES MS4 permit for the city).
      IMPROPER DISPOSAL. Any disposal other than through an illicit connection
that results in an illicit discharge, including, but not limited to the
disposal of used oil and toxic materials resulting from the improper management
of such substances.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE or ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any activity which results in a
discharge into a city stormwater management system or facility or receiving
waters that is not composed entirely of stormwater except:
         (a)   Discharges pursuant to an NPDES permit (other than the NPDES
permit for the city); and
         (b)   Discharges resulting from fire-fighting activities.
      MAINTENANCE. Any action necessary to preserve any stormwater system
component, including conveyances, facilities and BMPs in proper working
condition, in order to serve the intended purposes set forth in this subchapter
and to prevent structural failure of such components.
      MS4. A municipal separate storm sewer system and includes all conveyances
or system of conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, highways,
right-of-way, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-
made channels, storm drains, detention ponds, and other stormwater facilities)
which inlets, transports, stores, or treats stormwater runoff and which is:
         (a)   Owned or operated by the city;
         (b)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (c)   Not a combined sewer system; and
         (d)   Not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW).
      NEW DEVELOPMENT or REDEVELOPMENT. Any of the following actions undertaken
by any person, including, without limitation, any public or private individual
or entity:
         (a)   Division or combination of lots, tracts, or parcels or other
divisions by plat or deed;
         (b)   The construction, installation, or alteration of land, a
structure, impervious surface or drainage facility;
         (c)   Clearing, scraping, grubbing or otherwise significantly
disturbing the soil, vegetation, mud, sand or rock of a site, or changing the
physical drainage characteristics of the site; or
         (d)   Adding, removing, exposing, excavating, leveling, grading,
digging, burrowing, dumping, piling, dredging, or otherwise disturbing the
soil, vegetation, mud, sand or rock of a site.
      NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      NPDES PERMIT. The NPDES permit for stormwater discharges issued by SCDHEC
pursuant to the Clean Water Act and the federal stormwater discharge
regulations that allows for restricting pollutant loads as necessary to meet
water quality standards.
      OPERATOR. The person who has operational control of the real property,
including an operator or person who is in charge of any activity related to
land disturbance, construction, or post- construction stormwater quality or
quantity.
      OUTFALL or DISCHARGE POINT. The point where a city stormwater management
system or facility, or other municipal and private system, discharges into
waters of the State or United States.
      OWNER. A property owner, or any person who acts in his or her behalf, who
submits an application for approval to disturb land or vegetation or for
encroachment, and the person, if so designated  by default or on legal
documents, who is the responsible party for maintenance of a stormwater system
(s) or facility(s).
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, and includes any
individual, association, firm, corporation, limited liability company, business
trust, estate, trust, partnership, two or more persons having a joint or common
interest, state or federal agency or an agent or employee thereof, or any other
legal entity.
      POLLUTANT. Anything which may cause or contribute to violation of water
quality standards, including but not limited to sediment, bacteria, nutrients,
dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into water.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The record owner of the real property.
      RECEIVING WATERS. Any lakes, bays, sounds, ponds, impounding reservoirs,
springs, wells, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries, marshes, inlets, canals,
the Atlantic Ocean within the territorial limits of the State of South
Carolina, and all other bodies of surface or underground water, whether natural
or artificial, public or private, inland or coastal, fresh or salt.
      REGULATION. Any regulation, rule or requirement prepared by or adopted by
City Council pursuant to this subchapter.
      SPILL. Any accidental or intentional discharge of any pollutants,
hazardous materials, or other substances which are potentially detrimental to
the designated use of a receiving water.
      SWMP. The City of Folly Beach Stormwater Management Program, which may
describe the components to be used by the city to control stormwater
discharges, address flooding, and meet water quality standards.
      STORMWATER. Stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff and
drainage.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. The collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and
disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner to meet the objectives of this
subchapter and its terms, including, but not limited to, measures that control
the increased volume and rate of stormwater runoff and water quality impacts
caused by man-made changes to the land.
      STORMWATER SYSTEMS AND FACILITIES. Those natural and man-made channels,
swales, ditches, swamps, rivers, streams, creeks, branches, reservoirs, ponds,
drainage ways, inlets, catch basins, pipes, head walls, storm sewers, lakes and
other physical works, properties, and improvements which transfer, control,
convey, or otherwise influence the movement of stormwater runoff, whether for
quantity or quality control.
      TMDL. The Total Maximum Daily Load which is the regulatory value
developed to represent the amount of a pollutant that a water body can
incorporate while maintaining water quality standards. TMDL is further defined
as the pollutant load developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
and SCDHEC that designates the permitted amount of discharge allowed to flow
into a water body of this State or the United States.
      VARIANCE. The modification of the minimum stormwater management
requirements contained in this subchapter and the SWMP for specific
circumstances where strict adherence to the requirements would result in
unnecessary hardship and not fulfill the intent of this subchapter.
      WATERCOURSE. A conveyance used to transport runoff from one location to
another.
      WATERSHED. A drainage area or drainage basin contributing to the flow of
stormwater into a receiving watercourse or water body.
      WATER QUALITY. Those characteristics of stormwater runoff that relate to
the physical, chemical, biological, or radiological integrity of water.
      WATER QUANTITY. Those characteristics of stormwater runoff that relate to
the rate and volume of the stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.31 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred upon the city
by applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.32 JURISDICTION.
   The boundaries and jurisdiction of this subchapter shall encompass the
incorporated area of the city, as it may exist from time to time.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.33 PURPOSES.
   (A)   A primary purpose of this subchapter is to protect, maintain, and
enhance water quality and the environment of the City of Folly Beach and the
short-term and long-term public health, safety, and general welfare of the
city’s residents. This subchapter is also designed to minimize property damage
by establishing requirements and procedures to control the potential adverse
effects of increased stormwater runoff and related pollutant loads associated
with both future development and existing developed land. Proper management of
stormwater runoff will further the purpose of this subchapter to ensure a
functional drainage system, reduce the effects of development on land and
stream channel erosion, attain and maintain water quality standards, enhance
the local environment associated with the drainage system, reduce local
flooding, maintain where necessary pre-developed runoff characteristics of the
area in terms of flow rate, volume and pollutant concentration, and facilitate
economic development while mitigating associated pollutant, flooding, erosion,
and drainage impacts.
   (B)   Another primary purpose of this subchapter is to direct the
development and implementation of a Stormwater Management Program (SWMP) and to
establish authority which authorizes or enables the city at a minimum to:
      (1)   Comply with state and federal requirements related to stormwater
management developed pursuant to the Clean Water Act;
      (2)   Prohibit illicit discharges into the city’s stormwater systems and
facilities and receiving waters;
      (3)   Control to the maximum extent practicable the discharge into the
city’s stormwater systems and facilities and receiving waters of spills,
dumping, or disposal of materials other than stormwater;
      (4)   Address specific categories of non-stormwater discharges and
similar other incidental non-stormwater discharges listed in the SWMP;
      (5)   Require erosion and sediment controls to protect water quality on
all applicable new and redevelopment projects both during and after
construction;
      (6)   Where necessary, require stormwater discharge rate and volume
control during and following development, redevelopment, or construction;
      (7)   Define and implement procedures of site plan review and site
inspection of all applicable construction projects within the city;
      (8)   Control the discharge from the city’s stormwater systems and
facilities and receiving waters of pollutants in such quantity that water
quality standards are met or to otherwise address post-construction, long-term
water quality. This includes the necessary means needed to comply with state
and federal regulations regarding stormwater management quantity and quality;
      (9)   Define procedures for addressing resident complaints of stormwater-
related issues within the city;
      (10)   Provide for adequate long-term operation and maintenance of
existing systems and facilities.
      (11)   Carry out inspection, surveillance and monitoring procedures
necessary to determine compliance and noncompliance with permit conditions
including the prohibition on illicit discharges to the city’s stormwater system
and receiving waters;
      (12)   Encourage the creation of stream buffers and preservation of
natural spaces to provide areas that may be used for flood storage, stormwater
treatment and control, and recreation. Such areas may be required in special
protection areas needed to protect, maintain, or enhance water quality and
protect property from flooding problems;
      (13)   Develop, implement, and enforce action plans to address pollutant
load reductions required in impaired water bodies and to work towards
compliance with Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) established by EPA or SCDHEC
and to work toward meeting water quality standards;
      (14)   Enable enforcement of all of the authorizations stated herein.
   (C)   Another purpose of this subchapter is to establish review authority
for the city’s Director of Public Works to provide consistency of construction
projects with the SWMP.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.34 CONSTRUCTION; SCOPE.
   (A)   The city’s Director of Public Works shall be primarily responsible for
the coordination and enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter and the
SWMP; provided, however, that City Council may, from time to time, delegate
some or all of the rights and duties of the Director of Public Works to
Charleston County or its duly authorized representatives pursuant to an
intergovernmental agreement for the same.
   (B)   The application of this subchapter and the provisions and references
expressed herein shall be the minimum stormwater management requirements and
shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other ordinances of the city
or powers granted to the city by the State of South Carolina statutes,
including, without limitation, the power to require additional stormwater
management requirements, as defined by Section 3.1(a)(3). If site
characteristics on new development, redevelopment, and existing developments
indicate that complying with these minimum requirements will not provide
adequate designs or protection for real property, residents, or the
environment, the property owner, operator, or person responsible for land
disturbing activities is required to provide additional and appropriate
management practices, control techniques, system design, and engineering
methods to attain an adequate level of protection, in accordance with the
city’s Stormwater Program Permitting Standards and Procedures Manual (the
“Manual”).
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.35 RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS AND ORDINANCES.
   Whenever the provisions of this subchapter impose more restrictive standards
than are required in or under any other law, regulation or ordinance, the
requirements contained in the provisions of this subchapter shall prevail.
Whenever the provisions of any other law, regulation or ordinance impose more
restrictive standards than are required in the provisions of this subchapter,
the requirements of such law, regulation or ordinance shall prevail.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.36 AMENDMENTS.
   City Council may adopt additional regulations or resolutions to implement
this subchapter, implement the SWMP, or to otherwise further the goal of
protecting the quality of the waters into which the city’s stormwater system
drains.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.37 SWMP ADOPTION.
   The SWMP which has been developed by the city to implement the purposes of
this subchapter shall serve as the basis for directing the city’s efforts to
control stormwater runoff and discharge. The SWMP is incorporated by reference
and is hereby a part of this subchapter. The SWMP requirements are to be
complied with and shall be enforced in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.38 COORDINATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.
   City Council may coordinate the city’s activities with other federal, state,
and local agencies which manage and perform functions relating to the
protection of receiving waters, through a written agreement with those other
agencies. Authority not expressly reserved for other agencies or restricted by
statute is placed with the Director of Public Works for the protection and
preservation of receiving waters. The Director of Public Works should
coordinate with federal, state and local agencies having jurisdiction of those
receiving waters.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.39 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The City Administrator may with the consent of the property owner
enter upon the real property of any person subject to this subchapter. The City
Administrator shall be provided immediate access to the necessary portion of
the real property for the purposes of inspecting, monitoring, sampling,
inventorying, examining and copying of records, and performing any other duties
necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Where the property owner or operator has security measures in place
requiring proper identification and consent before entry upon the real
property, the property owner, operator, or person shall make the necessary
arrangements with the necessary parties so that the Director of Public Works
will be permitted to enter the property without delay for the purposes of
performing such responsibilities identified in division (A).
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall seek the consent of the owner
before entry upon the real property. If such consent is denied or unable to be
obtained from the owner, then in addition to any other remedies allowed by law,
the Director of Public Works shall by affidavit based upon the reasonable
suspicion that a violation exists, obtain an ex parte order from a court of
competent jurisdiction to enter upon the property for the limited purposes
stated in division (A).
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.40 REGULATIONS.
   The Director of Public Works shall be responsible for the coordination,
implementation, and enforcement of this subchapter and the SWMP, in addition to
the long-term management of the city’s drainage systems. Without limitation,
the Director of Public Works shall have the following authority:
   (A)   To issue any approval, certification, or license that may be required
to comply with this subchapter.
   (B)   To deny a facility connection to the city’s stormwater systems or
facilities or discharge to waters of the State if state requirements and this
subchapter are not met.
   (C)   To create the City of Folly Beach Stormwater Program Permitting
Standards and Procedures Manual. The Manual may be used to convey design and
engineering standards, construction management processes and procedures, and
other aspects necessary for compliance with this subchapter. The City
Administrator is authorized to approve the adoption and subsequent revisions of
the Manual.
   (D)   To require the submittal of an application for all applicable
construction activities that alter any portion of land for development or alter
the storm drainage characteristics of the land. The application shall include
the information required to control stormwater pollutants and other components
in accordance with the Manual.
   (E)   To require the development and enforcement of a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for all new and redevelopment projects.
   (F)   To require proper long-term maintenance of stormwater management
systems and facilities through the use of an operating permit or other
applicable measures in accordance with the Manual.
   (G)   To approve construction activities and to require as a condition of
such approval, structural or non-structural controls, practices, devices,
operating procedures, or other mechanisms to protect public and private
property from flooding and erosion and attain TMDL pollutant load reductions
and water quality standards.
   (H)   To require performance bonds as necessary of any owner to secure the
owner’s compliance with approvals, certificates, licenses, or authorizations
issued by the Director of Public Works pursuant to this subchapter, the SWMP,
and federal and state laws. The Director of Public Works shall develop a
process that organizes the closure of bonds and construction projects to
accommodate phases of development and the transfer of the ownership of real
property.
   (I)   To conduct all activities necessary to carry out the SWMP and other
requirements included in this subchapter and to pursue the necessary means and
resources required to properly fulfill this responsibility.
   (J)   To require appropriate post-construction best management practices and
appropriate continued maintenance of those best management practices.
   (K)   To determine appropriate fees, to impose penalties, and to take
necessary and appropriate actions to enforce this subchapter.
   (L)   To require encroachment permits as necessary.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.41 PROHIBITIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall (i) develop any land, (ii) engage in any industry or
enterprise, (iii) construct, operate or maintain any landfill, hazardous waste
treatment, disposal, or recovery facility, or any other industrial or related
facility, (iv) dispose of any hazardous material or toxic substance or other
pollutant, or (v) prevent the transport of sediment and other pollutants
associated with stormwater runoff beyond the real property boundary lines other
than in full compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   In instances where an imminent threat to the health, safety, or
general welfare of the public or the environment is suspected, the Director of
Public Works shall determine if immediate action is necessary. Such action may
be taken with or without the consent of the owner, operator or other
responsible person. If such consent is denied, the Director of Public Works
shall follow the provisions in Section 2.3 for entry upon the real property to
remove such threat. In such instances, the owner, operator, or other
responsible person shall reimburse the city for any and all expenses associated
with removal of such threat. If the owner or operator fails to reimburse the
city for such expenses, the city may recover the expenses from the owner,
operator or other responsible person through any remedies available at law or
in equity. Any fees or costs associated with any collection effort by the city
are in addition to the recovery of the expenses.
   (C)   The following development activities are exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter:
      (1)   Land disturbing activities undertaken on forestland for the
production and harvesting of timber and timber products and conducted in
accordance with best management practices and minimum erosion protection
measures established by the South Carolina Forestry Commission pursuant to S.C.
Code § 48-18-70.
      (2)   Activities undertaken by persons who are otherwise regulated by the
provisions of S.C. Code Title 48, Chapter 20, the South Carolina Mining Act,
livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules, or
goats, including the breeding and grazing of these animals; bees, fur animals,
and aquaculture. The construction of an agricultural structure that requires
the disturbance of one or more acres, such as, but not limited to, broiler
houses, machine sheds, repair shops, coops, barns, and other major buildings
shall require the submittal and approval of an application in accordance with
the Manual prior to the start of the land disturbing activity.
      (3)   Land disturbing activities on agricultural land for production of
plants and animals, including but not limited to: forages and sod crops, grains
and feed crops, tobacco, cotton, and peanuts; dairy animals and dairy products;
poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine,
horses, ponies, mules, or goats, including the breeding and grazing of these
animals; bees, fur animals, and aquaculture. The construction of an
agricultural structure that requires the disturbance of one or more acres, such
as, but not limited to, broiler houses, machine sheds, repair shops, coops,
barns, and other major buildings shall require the submittal and approval of a
land disturbance application prior to the start of the land disturbing
activity.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.42 DESIGN AND ENGINEERING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design and engineering standards must define the desired level of
quality and performance for stormwater management systems on all applicable
construction activities in order to meet the purpose of this subchapter. The
standards establish the minimum technical requirements needed to demonstrate
compliance.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works is authorized to develop and adopt
policies, criteria, specifications, and standards for the proper implementation
of the requirements of this subchapter, federal and state laws and the SWMP;
and to provide a sound technical basis for the achievement of stormwater
management, including water quality and quantity objectives. These standards
may be provided in the Manual. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owner, operator, or other person responsible for land disturbing activities to
provide adequate controls to meet the design and engineering standards provided
in the Manual.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.43 CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY APPROVAL PROCESS.
   An application for review and approval shall be made for all applicable
construction activities. Applications required under this subchapter shall be
submitted in a format and in such numbers as required by the Director of Public
Works. Applications may be initiated by the property owner, operator, or person
responsible for construction activities. Applications that meet the
requirements of this subchapter, the SWMP, and state and federal regulations
are considered complete. The application process and requirements to establish
a complete application will be provided in the Manual.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.44 STORMWATER PROGRAM PERMITTING STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   (A)   The Manual may include design standards, procedures and criteria for
conducting hydrologic, hydraulic, pollutant load evaluations, and downstream
impact for all components of the stormwater management system. It is the
intention of the Manual to establish uniform design practices; however, it
neither replaces the need for engineering judgment nor precludes the use of
information not submitted. Other accepted engineering procedures may be used to
conduct hydrologic, hydraulic and pollutant load studies if approved by the
Director of Public Works. The Manual will contain at a minimum the following
components:
      (1)   Construction activity application contents and approval procedures;
      (2)   Construction completion and closeout processes;
      (3)   Hydrologic, hydraulic, and water quality design criteria (i.e.,
design standards) for the purposes of controlling the runoff rate, volume, and
pollutant load. Suggested reference material shall be included for guidance in
computations needed to meet the design standards;
      (4)   Information and requirements for new and redevelopment projects in
special protection areas necessary to address TMDLs, known problem areas and
other areas necessary to protect, maintain, and enhance water quality and the
environment of the city and the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the city’s residents.
      (5)   Construction document requirements;
      (6)   Long-term maintenance and maintenance plan;
      (7)   Minimum easement requirements;
      (8)   Required and recommended inspection schedules and activities for
all components of the stormwater management system, including construction-
related BMPs.
   (B)   The Manual will be updated periodically to reflect advances in
technology and experience.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.45 MAINTENANCE; CONSTRUCTION; INSPECTION; NOTICE OF TERMINATION.
   (A)   Maintenance of the stormwater management system is critical for the
achievement of its purpose of controlling stormwater runoff quantity and
quality and providing for the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
residents of the city.
   (B)   In accordance with the Manual, a maintenance plan for the stormwater
management system shall be included in an application to perform a construction
activity to cover activities to be conducted during and after construction. As
part of the maintenance plan, the property owner, operator, or person of such
system or facility shall agree to be responsible for keeping the system and
facility in working order. The Director of Public Works shall develop
procedures to provide reasonable assurances that maintenance activities are
performed in accordance with the Manual for both city and privately maintained
stormwater systems and facilities. The Director of Public Works will provide
the procedures for transferring maintenance responsibilities to another entity.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works will define procedures for conducting
site inspections.
   (D)   As part of any application to perform a construction activity, the
applicant shall submit construction and BMP maintenance and inspection
schedules, and long-term maintenance plan shall be covered by an operating
permit for new stormwater management systems and facilities. Required and
recommended schedules for BMP maintenance and inspection and long-term plans
are provided in the Manual.
   (E)   If the construction is to be phased, no phase of the work, related to
the construction of stormwater management facilities shall commence until the
preceding phase of the work is completed in accordance with an approved
application to perform a construction activity. The procedure for construction
phases beginning and ending and what constitutes such conditions shall be
submitted with the application.
   (F)   The applicant shall notify the Director of Public Works before
commencing any work, in accordance with the Manual, and upon completion of any
phase or designated component of the site. Notification schedules shall be
provided for in the Manual. All self-inspections, maintenance actions, BMP
replacements, and changes to the approved application shall be documented and
presented upon request to the Director of Public Works.
   (G)   The notification of termination (NOT) process as identified in the
Manual must be completed by the Director of Public Works prior to any of the
following actions, as applicable:
      (1)   The use or occupancy of any newly constructed components of the
site.
      (2)   Final acceptance of any road into a public road maintenance system
or designation of road owner and associated stormwater management system.
      (3)   Release of any bond held by the city, if applicable.
      (4)   Approval or acceptance for recording of map, plat, or drawing, the
intent of which is to cause a division of a single parcel of land into two or
more parcels.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.46 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Every owner, operator, or person responsible for any land disturbance
activity on property through which a watercourse passes shall keep and maintain
that portion of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, and
other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner, operator, or person shall
maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not interfere with the use, function,
or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   (B)   To assist in the compliance with state and federal laws and
regulations, the Director of Public Works may develop special protection areas
which require additional control of stormwater quality and quantity than
provided by minimum design standards. Such areas may consist of watersheds
corresponding to adopted TMDLs, known flooding problems and pollution
impairments, or other areas necessary to protect, maintain, and enhance water
quality and the environment of the city and the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the city’s residents. These areas may change with time as
development continues and as federal and state law demands.
   (C)   New stormwater systems created as the result of any new and
redevelopment project shall be connected in a manner so as not to degrade the
integrity of any existing stormwater system, whether natural or man-made, and
shall have demonstrate this to the Director of Public Works, in accordance with
the Manual. Discharge points shall be confined to connections with an existing
stormwater system. When stormwater discharges are to flow into collection
systems not owned and maintained by the city, the owners of these systems shall
maintain the right to disapprove new connections to their systems.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.47 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   The owner, operator, or person responsible for any land disturbance activity
shall immediately notify the Director of Public Works of any known or suspected
release of materials or discharges that are currently resulting in or may
result in any illegal discharges of pollutants to an existing stormwater
system.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.48 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS; ILLICIT DISCHARGES; IMPROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or person to connect any pipe,
open channel, or any other conveyance system that discharges anything, except
stormwater or other approved discharges into the city’s stormwater system or
facility, or waters of the State.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or person to continue the
operation of any illicit connection regardless of whether the connection was
permissible when constructed. Improper connections in violation of this
subchapter must be disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works in compliance with federal, state,
or local agencies or departments regulating the discharge.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or person to throw, drain, or
otherwise discharge to any existing stormwater system, the waters of the State
or to cause, permit, or allow a discharge that is composed of anything except
stormwater or other discharges authorized by the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   The Director of Public Works will develop procedures for detecting,
tracking, and eliminating illicit discharges and improper disposals to the
stormwater system.
   (E)   After a reasonable determination is made by the Director of Public
Works that the discharge is not a significant source of pollution, the Director
of Public Works may require controls for or exempt from the prohibition
provisions in divisions (A), (B), and (C) above the following:
      (1)   Unpolluted industrial cooling water, but only under the
authorization and direction of the Director of Public Works and if appropriate
industrial NPDES permit is in place.
      (2)   Water line flushing, diverted stream flows, rising ground waters,
and uncontaminated pumped ground waters, and uncontaminated ground water
infiltration.
      (3)   Discharges from potable water sources, foundation drains, air
conditioning condensation, landscape irrigation, springs, water from crawl
space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering, individual car washing,
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, flows from riparian habitats and
wetlands, and street wash water.
      (4)   Discharges or flows from firefighting.
   (F)   The Director of Public Works may develop procedures for allowing other
non-stormwater discharges.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.49 DETECTION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND IMPROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works will take appropriate steps to detect and
eliminate illicit connections to the city’s stormwater system, including the
adoption of a program to screen illicit discharges and identify their source or
sources, perform inspections, and levy fines if not removed.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works will take appropriate steps to detect and
eliminate improper discharges. These steps may include programs to screen for
disposal, programs to provide for public education and public information,
inspection, levying fines, and other appropriate activities to facilitate the
proper management and elimination of illicit discharges.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.50 WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   This subchapter prohibits non-authorized discharges, illicit dumping, or
disposal of waste into any stormwater system or waters of this State.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.51 DISCHARGES IN VIOLATION OF NPDES GENERAL PERMIT FOR STORMWATER
DISCHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY PERMIT.
   Any owner, operator, or person subject to a violation of the NPDES general
permit for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity permit
(except construction activities) shall comply with all provisions of the
permit. Proof of compliance with the permit will be required in a form
acceptable to the Director of Public Works prior to or as a condition of the
issuance of approval of an application or a building permit.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.52 MONITORING.
   The Director of Public Works may monitor the quantity and concentration of
pollutants in stormwater discharges from the areas or locations designated in
the city’s SWMP.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.53 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works, subject to the provisions of Section
2.3, may enter upon and inspect  all properties for regular inspections,
periodic investigations, monitoring, observation measurement, enforcement,
sampling and testing, to effectuate the provisions of this subchapter and the
SWMP programs.
   (B)   Upon refusal by any property owner, operator, or person to permit an
inspector to enter upon the property or continue an inspection on the property,
the inspector shall terminate the inspection or confine the inspection to
portions of the property to which no objection is raised. The Director of
Public Works will document the refusal and proceed according to the provisions
of Section 2.3.
   (C)   In the event that the Director of Public Works reasonably believes
that discharges from the property into a stormwater system may cause an
imminent and substantial threat to the health, safety or welfare of the public
or the environment, an inspection may be conducted.
   (D)   Inspection reports will be maintained in a permanent file located in
the city’s Building Department.
   (E)   At any time during an inspection or at such other times as the
Director of Public Works may request information from an owner, operator, or
other responsible person, that owner, operator, or other responsible person may
identify areas of his or her system or facility, any material, processes, or
information that contain or might reveal a trade secret. If the Director of
Public Works has no reason to question such identification, all material,
processes and information obtained within such areas shall be conspicuously
labeled “CONFIDENTIAL - TRADE SECRET.” The trade secret designation shall be
freely granted to any material claimed to be such by the owner or
representative unless there is clear and convincing evidence for denying such
designation. In the event the Director of Public Works does not agree with the
trade secret designation, the material shall be temporarily designated a trade
secret and the owner or representative may appeal the Director of Public Works’
decision in the manner in which all such appeals are handled in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.54 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If the Director of Public Works determines that work performed
for new development and redevelopment fails to conform to the approved
application, or that the work has not been performed, the Director of Public
Works may direct conformity by sending written notice of violation (NOV) to the
property owner, operator, or other responsible person. Such notice of violation
will be in accordance with the Manual. The actions of the Director of Public
Works may include:
         (a)   Issuing a written order to comply, to suspend work, or to revoke
the approval;
         (b)   Withholding or revoking other permits related to the site;
         (c)   Withholding the release of permanent electric power to the site
or certificate of occupancy; and/or
         (d)   Seeking redress through legal action.
      (2)   The NOV shall serve as notice to remove the violation(s). The NOV
shall be provided to the owner, operator, or person responsible for the land
disturbing activities stating the nature of the violation, the amount of time
to correct deficiencies, the date on which an inspection will be made to ensure
that corrective action has been performed, and the applicable penalty or fine
if corrective action is not taken by the inspection date. After the issuance of
the NOV, the Director of Public Works may issue a uniform summons citation in
accordance with the Manual.
   (B)   When the Director of Public Works determines that an owner, operator,
or other responsible person has failed to maintain a stormwater system or
facility, the NOV shall be provided to the owner, operator, or other
responsible person stating the nature of the violation, the amount of time in
which to correct deficiencies, the date on which an inspection will be made to
ensure that corrective action has been performed, and the applicable penalty or
fine if corrective action is not taken. It shall be sufficient notification to
deliver the notice in accordance with the Manual.
   (C)   When the Director of Public Works determines that an owner, operator,
or other responsible person of any property is causing or partially causing
flooding, erosion, or is in non- compliance with water quality standards or
this subchapter, the Director of Public Works may require the owner, operator,
or other responsible person to remedy the violation and restore the impacted
property. A NOV will be issued in accordance with the Manual.
   (D)   This subchapter may be enforced by any remedy at law or in equity
available to the Director of Public Works under any federal and state laws and
regulations. The penalties and remedies provided in this subchapter are
cumulative and not exclusive, and may be independently and separately pursued
against the same person for the activity constituting a violations.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.55 ADDITIONAL LEGAL MEASURES.
   If the city is fined or subjected to a compliance schedule by the state or
federal government for a violation of its NPDES permit by any owner, operator,
or other person, the owner, operator, or other person shall be liable to the
city for any and all penalties, expenses, fees and costs of compliance
associated therewith.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.56 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   In the event a violation of this subchapter has not been corrected within
the applicable time period for correction, the city may, subject to the
provisions of Section 2.3, enter upon the real property and correct the
violation. Any penalties, expenses, fees and costs incurred as a result of such
action, including but not limited to the inspection, administration, labor and
equipment costs, shall be forfeited from any bond issued for the project.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.57 STOP WORK ORDER.
   The Director of Public Works may issue a stop work order if any construction
activity conducted in violation of this subchapter. The stop work order shall
require correction of the NOV. Any owner, operator, or other person in
violation of a stop work order is subject to payment of all fees, bonds, and
penalties prior to the lifting of the stop work order.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.58 APPROVAL SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   An approved application may be suspended or revoked if one or more of the
following violations have been committed:
   (A)   Violations of the conditions of the approved application,
   (B)   Construction is not in accordance with the letter or intent of the
approved plans,
   (C)   Non-compliance with correction notice(s) or stop work orders), or
   (D)   The existence of an immediate danger to a downstream area.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.59 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works may grant a variance from the
requirements of this subchapter if exceptional circumstances exist such that
strict adherence to the provisions of this subchapter will result in
unnecessary hardship to the owner, operator, or other person and will not
fulfill the intent of this subchapter.
   (B)   A written request for a variance shall be required and shall be
submitted in accordance with the Manual.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.60 APPEALS PROCESS.
   An applicant may appeal the decision of the Director of Public Works to the
city’s Construction Board of Appeals within 30 days after the date of the
Director of Public Works’ response. The Director of Public Works shall provide
the petition form to the utility customer.
   (A)   The petition must be accompanied with a $25 fee that will be used to
partially defray the costs incurred in connection with the administration of
petitions filed pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall hear the petition to determine
if the annual stormwater management utility fee does not apportion the fee with
approximate equality, based upon a reasonable basis of classification and with
due regard to the benefits conferred by providing stormwater management
services to the utility customer and the requirements of public health, safety
or welfare. The determination of the annual fee by the Construction Board of
Adjustment and Appeals is entitled to a presumption of correctness, and the
petitioner has the burden of rebutting the presumption of correctness.
   (C)   The Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall render a
written decision on each petition that is heard, and such written decision
shall be issued within 20 calendar days from the day the Board heard the
petition. The decision of the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals
shall contain findings of fact and conclusions of law and the decision shall be
sent to the petitioner by first class mail.
   (D)   The decision of the Construction Board of Appeals shall be final
unless the petitioner appeals the decision to the Circuit Court in Charleston
County within 30 days after the date of the decision of the Construction Board
of Appeals. Prior to bringing an action to contest an annual fee, the
petitioner shall pay to the City Treasurer not less than the amount of the
annual fee which he or she admits in good faith is due and owing. Payment of
the fee shall not be deemed an admission that the annual fee was correct and
shall not prejudice the petitioner in bringing an action as provided herein.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.61 FUNDING.
   In addition to all other charges, fees, and penalties, the city shall have
the right to develop and impose a stormwater service fee to fund implementation
of this chapter and its associated programs and plans.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.62 CONNECTION TO CONVEYANCES.
   The Director of Public Works shall have the right to establish a schedule of
appropriate fees for any owner, operator, or person establishing a new
discharge to waters of the State within the city. Such fees shall be payable as
part of any application related to the discharge of stormwater runoff.
Application fees shall be established on the basis of facility classes relating
to the quantity and quality of approved discharge. Establishment and revision
of such fees shall be approved by City Council.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.63 PLAN REVIEW.
   A fee associated with the plan review of land development construction
documents may be assessed. Establishment and revision of such fees shall be
approved by City Council.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.64 FIELD INSPECTION.
   A fee associated with the field inspection and re-inspections of land
development or construction activities may be assessed. Establishment and
revision of such fees shall be approved by City Council.
(Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to any other penalties provided in §§
53.01 through
53.12, the city may assess a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000 against any
person violating any provision of §§
53.01 through
53.12. Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate violation that may
be the subject of such a penalty. The Enforcement Officer shall make a written
demand for payment upon the person responsible for the violation and set forth
in detail the violation for when the penalty has been invoked. If full payment
of the penalty is not made within 30 days after such demand is made, a civil
action may be filed in the Circuit Court of Charleston County to recover the
amount of the penalty.
      (2)   When the city has reasonable cause to believe that any person is
violating or is threatening to violate the requirements of §§
53.01 through
53.12, it may, either before or after the institution of any other action or
proceeding authorized by §§
53.01 through
53.12, institute a civil action in Circuit Court for injunctive relief to
restrain the violation or threatened violation. The institution of an action
for injunctive relief under this division (A)(2) does not relieve any party to
the proceeding from any civil penalty prescribed for violations of §
53.01 through
53.12.
      (3)   The amount of the fee shall be pursuant to §§
53.20 through
53.24.
   (B)   (1)   Civil. Any person violating any provision of §§
53.30 through
53.64 shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation.
Each separate day of a violation constitutes a new and separate violation.
      (2)   Criminal. In addition to any applicable civil penalties, any owner,
operator, or other person who willfully, with wanton disregard, or
intentionally violates any provision of §§
53.30 through
53.64 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished within the
jurisdictional limits of the city’s Municipal Court. The Director of Public
Works may issue a uniform summons citation for a violation of §§
53.30 through
53.64. Fines imposed under the NOV may not exceed $500 per violation or 30 days
in jail, or both. Each day a violation remains constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 9-25-07; Am. Ord. 23-07, passed 9-25-07)
CHAPTER 54: DROUGHT RESPONSE
Section
   
54.01   Declaration of policy and authority
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Moderate drought phase
   
54.04   Severe drought phase
   
54.05   Extreme drought phase
   
54.06   Drought Management Plan
   
54.07   Variances
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The objective of this chapter is to establish authority, policy and
procedure by which the city will take the proper actions to manage water demand
during a drought-related shortage. The chapter satisfies the requirements of
the Drought Response Act of 2000 and has the goal of achieving the greatest
public benefit from limited supplies of water needed for domestic water use,
sanitation, and fire protection and of allocating water for other purposes in
an equitable manner.
   (B)   This chapter outlines the actions to be taken for the conservation of
water supplied by the city. These actions are directed both towards an overall
reduction in water usage and the optimization of supply.
   (C)   To satisfy these goals, the city hereby adopts the following
regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of water. This
chapter is hereby declared necessary for the protection of public health,
safety and welfare and shall take effect upon its adoption by the city.
   (D)   If it becomes necessary to conserve water in its service area due to
drought, the city is authorized to issue a proclamation (“Proclamation”) that
existing conditions prevent fulfillment of the usual water-use demands. The
Proclamation is an attempt to prevent depleting the water supply to the extent
that water-use for human consumption, sanitation, fire protection, and other
essential needs becomes endangered.
   (E)   Immediately upon issuance of such a Proclamation, regulations and
restrictions set forth under this chapter shall become effective and remain in
effect until the water supply shortage has ended and the Proclamation
rescinded.
   (F)   Water uses that are regulated or prohibited under this chapter are
considered to be non-essential and continuation of such uses during times of
water supply shortages is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the
offender(s) to penalties.
(Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. Water use integral to the production of
goods and/or services by any establishment having financial profit as their
primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of the
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household purposes
such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or for cleaning a
residence, business, industry or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES.
      (1)   EXTREME DROUGHT. When the Palmer Index reaches or falls below -4.00
and extreme drought conditions are verified by best available information.
      (2)   MODERATE DROUGHT. When the Palmer Index reaches the -1.50 to -2.99
range and moderate drought conditions have been verified by best available
information, and conditions indicate this situation is expected to persist.
      (3)   SEVERE DROUGHT. When the Palmer Index reaches the -3.00 to - 3.99
range and severe drought conditions are verified by best available information.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE COMMITTEE. A committee composed of state and local
representatives, created for the purpose of coordinating responses to water
shortages within drought management areas and making recommendations for action
to the State Water Resources Commission and/or the Governor.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water used specifically for firefighting, maintaining
instream flow requirements and to satisfy federal, state or local public health
and safety requirements.
   EVEN-NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street address, box number or rural route numbers
ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 or letters A-M, locations without addresses.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water used by government, public and private
educational institutions, public medians and rights-of-way, churches and places
of worship, water utilities and other lands, buildings and organizations within
the public domain.
   LANDSCAPE WATER USE. Water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns, shrubs,
flowers, athletic fields, rights-of-way and medians.
   ODD-NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street address, box number or rural route numbers
ending in 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 or letters N-Z.
   PALMER INDEX. A measure of the severity of a drought, or a wet spell, in an
area. Dry conditions are associated with negative values, wet conditions with
positive values and normal conditions have a value of zero.
   WATER SHORTAGE. Lack of adequate available water to meet normal demands due
to lower than normal precipitation, reduced stream flows or soil moisture, and/
or lowering of the potentiometric surface in wells which causes water supplies
to be less than usual.
('95 Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03)
§ 54.03 MODERATE DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a moderate
drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon
determination by the city that a moderate water supply shortage exists based on
trigger levels, the city will seek voluntary reductions from its customers in
the use of water for all purposes and voluntary reductions on using water
during certain peak water demand periods. Specifically, the goal during this
phase is to achieve a reduction of 20% in residential water use and 15% in
other water uses such as commercial, industrial, institutional and irrigation;
and a reduction in overall water use of 15%.
   (B)   To accomplish this, the city will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a Proclamation to be released to local media, city’s
customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources Drought
Information Center that Moderate drought conditions are present.
      (2)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
voluntary conservation measures that the customers are requested to follow
during moderate drought conditions, including:
         (a)   Reduce residential water use to 75 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 300 gallons per household per day;
         (b)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
         (c)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (d)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
         (e)   Eliminate the domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and
the like;
         (f)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
         (g)   Reduce watering of lawns, plants, trees, gardens, shrubbery and
flora on private or public property to the minimum necessary. Encourage outdoor
watering to be done during off-peak hours;
         (h)   Reduce the amount of water obtained from fire hydrants for
construction purposes, fire drills or for any purpose other than firefighting
or flushing necessary to maintain water quality; and
         (i)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
            3.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so;
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system.
      (4)   Cease to install new irrigation taps on the water system.
      (5)   Continue to encourage and educate customers to comply with
voluntary water conservation.
(Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03)
§ 54.04 SEVERE DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a severe
drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon
determination by the city that a severe water supply shortage exists based on
trigger levels, city will seek voluntary reduction in the use of water for all
purposes and mandatory restrictions on non-essential usage and restrictions on
times when certain water usage is allowed. Specifically, the goal during this
phase is to achieve a reduction of 25% in residential water use, 20% in all
other water use categories, and a reduction in overall water use of 20%.
   (B)   To accomplish these goals, the city will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a Proclamation to be released to the local media, city’s
customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources Drought
Information Center that severe drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
voluntary conservation measures and mandatory restrictions to be placed on the
use of water supplied by the utility, including:
         (a)   Voluntary reduction of residential water use by the utility’s
customers to 65 gallons per person per day and a maximum of 250 gallons per
household or REU per day;
         (b)   Control landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers by
staggering watering times;
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   Eliminate domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and the
like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools;
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills or any purpose other than fire-fighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality; and
         (d)   Limit use of water by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system;
      (5)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested;
      (6)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts and
emphasize the penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions;
      (7)   Provide written notification monthly to the South Carolina
Department of Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the
success of the voluntary and mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03)
§ 54.05 EXTREME DROUGHT PHASE.
   (A)   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that an extreme
drought condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon
determination by the city that an extreme water supply shortage exists based on
the trigger levels, the city will impose mandatory restrictions in the use of
water for all purposes and on the times when certain water usage is allowed.
Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of 30% in
residential water use, 25% in all other categories of water uses and a
reduction in overall water use of 25%.
   (B)   To accomplish these goals, the city will take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a Proclamation to be released to the local media, the city
customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources Drought
Information Center that extreme drought conditions are present;
      (2)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
mandatory restrictions to be placed on the use of water supplied by the
utility, including:
         (a)   Limiting residential water use to 55 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 225 gallons per household or REU per day.
         (b)   Eliminate landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers;
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   No domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and the like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds, and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools;
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills, or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality; and
         (d)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of their
grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production, or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process;
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system;
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system;
      (5)   Outline other conservation measures, examples are:
         (a)   Reduce by 50% the issuance of all new water service connections
and contracts for all new water main extensions. As part of the public
information process, provide notice to developers of the moratorium;
         (b)   Encourage all residential water customers to voluntarily reduce
overall monthly water usage to aforementioned goals. If voluntary reduction of
usage is not successful, the city may, at its option, implement the following
excessive use rate schedule for water:
 
Tier gallons/REU rate
I    0 - 225     regular
II   225 - 250   2 x
III  Over 250    3 x
 
         (c)   If the conservation measures of the chapter or Plan prove
inadequate to mitigate the effects of the drought conditions or water supply
availability, the city (water system) may take additional actions including,
but not limited to:
            1.   Decreasing the gallon/REU limits in the different tiers; and
            2.   Reduction of water system pressure as needed.
      (6)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested;
      (7)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts as
conducted under the moderate and severe drought phase and emphasize the
penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions.
      (8)   Provide written notification monthly to the South Carolina
Department of Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the
success of the mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03)
§ 54.06 DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. To ensure that Folly Beach adequately manages its water
system during drought-related conditions, an organized plan is necessary for
system operation and reliability, proper communications, effective coordination
and ultimate allocation of water use. Prior planning will compliment the Folly
Beach water system's ability to respond to drought conditions and to enforce
the related chapter.
   (B)   Water system Drought Response Representative. The Mayor shall serve as
the city's Drought Response Representative.
   (C)   Water system layout, water sources, capacities, and yields. The Folly
Beach water system is located in the Southern Drought Response Management Area
of South Carolina. The system serves the corporate limits of the city with a
customer base of 2,300. The system contains approximately 12 miles of
distribution main lines ranging from ten inches to four inches, a 200,000
gallon underground reservoir, a 150,000 gallon elevated tank, and two 40 horse
power booster pumps. The SCDHEC total permitted capacity of the water system is
900,000 gallons per day.
   (D)   Water system specific drought indicators. The Folly Beach water system
has developed triggers for use during drought or water shortages that describe
when specific phases of the drought response ordinance are implemented. The
system triggers are as follows:
      (1)   Moderate Drought Phase:
         (a)   Reservoirs one-half full;
         (b)   Storage below 50% capacity;
         (c)   Average daily use greater than .9 mgd for 17 consecutive days.
      (2)   Severe Drought Phase:
         (a)   Reservoirs one-third full;
         (b)   Storage below 66% capacity;
         (c)   Average daily use greater than.9 mgd for 30 consecutive days.
      (3)   Extreme Drought Phase:
         (a)   Reservoirs one-quarter full;
         (b)   Storage below 50% capacity;
         (c)   Average daily use greater than .9 mgd for 45 consecutive days.
(Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03; Ord. 28-04, passed 10-26-04)
§ 54.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Customers, who in their belief are unable to comply with the mandatory
water use restrictions of this chapter, may petition for a variance from
restrictions by filing a petition with the city within ten working days after
the issuance of the Proclamation requiring water use restrictions. All
petitions for variance shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner;
      (2)   Purpose of water usage;
      (3)   Special provision from which the petitioner is requesting relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration adversely
affects the petitioner;
      (5)   Description of the relief desired;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Economic value of the water use;
      (8)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner complies
with the chapter;
      (9)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
      (10)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from which
the variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
      (11)   Other information as needed.
   (B)   In order for the variance to be granted, the petitioner must
demonstrate clearly that compliance with the chapter cannot be technically
accomplished during the duration of the water supply shortage without having an
adverse impact upon the best interests of the community. The city is authorized
to grant the request for variance.
   (C)   In addition, the city is authorized to grant temporary variances for
existing water uses otherwise prohibited under the chapter if it is determined
that failure to grant such variances could cause an emergency condition
adversely affecting health, sanitation and fire protection for the public. No
such variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of this
chapter occurring prior to the issuance of the variance. Variances granted by
the city shall include a timetable for compliance and shall expire when the
water supply shortage no longer exists, unless the petitioner has failed to
meet specified requirements.
(Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any customer of the city fails to comply with the mandatory water
use restrictions of this chapter, the customer shall be given a written notice
of such failure to comply, which cites the date of said violation, and shall be
assessed surcharges in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   First violation - $25 surcharge shall be added to the customer’s
water bill;
      (2)   Second violation - an additional $25 surcharge shall be added to
the customer’s water bill;
      (3)   Third violation - the customer’s water service shall be terminated
and restored only after payment of a surcharge of $50 in addition to all
previously assessed surcharges.
   (B)   Law enforcement agencies and other authorized agencies or designated
employees in the respective jurisdiction which is being supplied water by the
city shall diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 29-03, passed 10-14-03)
CHAPTER 55: ON-SITE SEPTIC SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
Section
   
55.01   Intent
   
55.02   Applicability
   
55.03   Definitions
   
55.04   Enforcement responsibility
   
55.05   Construction of new structures, substantial improvement, change in
occupancy, or renovation
   
55.06   Inspections
   
55.07   Septic system operation and maintenance
   
55.08   Enforcement; penalties for offenses
§ 55.01 INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health and safety; to
prevent the spread of diseases associated with failing septic systems; to
educate the public about proper septic system operation and maintenance; to
promote a quality environment in the city’s marshes, wetlands, rivers, and
beaches; to reduce contamination generated by failed, poorly maintained, and
eroded septic systems; and to ensure that septic systems are properly operated
and inspected, and routinely maintained.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19)
§ 55.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be applicable to every owner of property that
operates or proposes to install a septic system. In no way do the provisions of
this chapter abrogate the powers and duties of the South Carolina Department of
Health and Environmental Control (SCDHEC) in regards to the permitting of
wastewater systems and enforcement of wastewater system regulations.
   (B)   All owners of premises who operate septic systems with designs
requiring storage tanks and alternative drain fields shall comply with the
requirements set forth in this chapter. All septic systems shall be maintained
according to state standards, any applicable approved management plan, and the
product manufacturer requirements. Where applicable, property owners shall
provide the City of Folly Beach a copy of the approved SCDHEC Management Plan
and installation permit.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19)
§ 55.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any modernization, modification or change in the size, type, or
flow of an existing septic system, including but not limited to any work
performed in connection with a building renovation and/or change of occupancy
of that building.
   BASELINE INSPECTION. A thorough evaluation of an operating septic system to
determine whether the system is functioning as designed, is not exhibiting
signs of failure, and is being operated properly. A pump out of the system is
required for a baseline inspection to properly examine the interior of the tank
and to check for leaks from the house or saturated conditions in the
drainfield. All inspections and pump outs must be performed by inspectors and
pumpers with valid SCDES licenses.
   BEDROOM. Any room in a residential structure which is: greater than 70
square feet in area; susceptible to present or future use as a private sleeping
area; has at least one egress window or door per fire code; has at least one
interior method of entry and egress, excluding closets and bathrooms, which
allows the room to be closed off from the remainder of the residence for
privacy; and has a closet. In determining the number of bedrooms contained in
any residence, it shall be presumed that all residences contain a living room,
kitchen, bathroom and at least one bedroom.
   CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY. Refers to any change in the occupancy classification of
a structure that is likely to result in an increase in sewage flow into the
system.
   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (or FBDPW). The Department of Public Works, City
of Folly Beach.
   DRAINFIELD. A system of trenches or beds, or other such seepage systems
approved by SCDES, designed to disperse septic tank effluent into the soil for
treatment.
   FAILED SYSTEM. Any septic system that does not adequately treat and dispose
of sewage that consequently creates a public or private nuisance or threat to
public health and/or environmental quality, as evidenced by, but not limited
to, one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Failure to accept sanitary sewage;
      (2)   Discharge of sanitary sewage to a basement, subsurface drain,
surface drain or surface water unless expressly permitted by SCDES;
      (3)   Sanitary sewage rising to the surface of the ground over or near
any part of a septic system or seeping down-grade from the drainfield at any
change in grade, bank or road cut;
      (4)   Any deterioration or damage to any a septic system that would
preclude adequate treatment and disposal of wastewater (for example, damage
from a vehicle driven over the drainfield or septic tank);
      (5)   A septic tank that is not constructed to be watertight (such as
bottomless tank) as required to hold wastewater for primary treatment prior to
discharging to a drainfield;
      (6)   The presence of a grease trap to which kitchen waste is discharged
and which is not connected to the septic tank or drainfield;
      (7)   Exposure, reduction, or elimination of the drainfield area or
holding tank through erosion;
      (8)   Repeated and prolonged inundation by floodwaters resulting in
leakage of sewage;
      (9)   Water quality testing of adjacent and nearby waters that reveals a
septic system as the source of contamination.
   GOOD OPERATING CONDITION. A state in which the septic system, upon
inspection, is determined to function in a sanitary manner, prohibits the
discharge of untreated or partially treated wastewater onto the ground surface,
into surface water, or into groundwater, and allows building plumbing to
discharge properly.
   GREASE TRAP. An interceptor tank used to trap grease and oils from kitchen
waste. If the tank is not plumbed so that the remaining liquid enters the
septic tank or a drainfield, it is in violation of this chapter.
   INSPECTOR. An individual who has who has been approved by SCDES to inspect
septic systems.
   LICENSED INSTALLER. Any individual who holds a valid SCDES license for the
installation and repair of septic systems. LICENSED INSTALLERS may hold a dual
license for installation/repair and cleaning of septic systems; installers with
a dual license are also classified as licensed pumpers.
   LICENSED PUMPER. Any individual who holds a valid SCDES license to clean
septic tanks and self-contained toilets.
   MAINTENANCE. The clearing of stoppages in pipes and the regular cleaning of
any septic tank, grease trap, building sewer, distribution lines or any other
component of a septic system for the purpose of removing any accumulated
liquid, scum and/or sludge without removing, replacing, or rearranging of pipes
or surrounding soils. The term MAINTENANCE shall also be held to include any
regularly required servicing or replacement of related mechanical, electrical
or other equipment.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others holds legal
title to any real property or has possession or control of any real property
through any agent, executor, administrator trustee, or guardian of the estate
of a holder of a legal title or has possession or control through any lease or
purchase and sale agreement. Each such person is bound to comply with the
provisions of these rules and regulations.
   REGULATION 61-56 (R.61-56) INDIVIDUAL WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS. Statewide
regulation that governs the permitting, design and installation of septic
systems.
   RENOVATION. Any addition, replacement, reconstruction, or modification of an
existing structure that adds bedrooms.
   REPAIR. Work performed on a septic system in order to mend or remedy a
specific defect or deficiency after the failure, injury, deterioration, or
partial destruction of a previously existing septic system or component
thereof. A REPAIR shall not include any alteration work performed on an
existing septic system that increases the flow capacity of the system.
   RESIDENCE. Any structure used for housing purposes, including but not
limited to single- or multiple-family dwellings, duplexes, tenements, apartment
buildings, condominiums, mobile homes, recreational vehicles or trailers.
   SANITARY SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. Any human or animal excremental liquid or
substance, any putrescible animal or vegetable matter and/or any garbage and
filth, including but not limited to any black water discharged from toilets, or
grey water discharged from laundry tubs, washing machines, sinks and
dishwashers, as well as the content of septic tanks or privies.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM. Any system of piping, tanks, drainfields, alternative toilets
or other facilities designed to function as a unit to convey, store, treat and/
or dispose of sanitary sewage by means other than discharge into a public sewer
system. This may be either an on-site sewage disposal system (OSDS) or an
engineered specialized onsite wastewater system (SOWS) permitted by SCDES
pursuant to Standard 610 of Regulation 61-56. All new septic systems must be
located on the same parcel as the structure to be served.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight receptacle that receives the discharge of sewage
from a building sewer and is designed and constructed to permit the deposition
of settled solids, the digestion of the matter deposited and the discharge of
the liquid portion into a leaching system (such as a drainfield).
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Uses in which overnight accommodations are provided in
dwelling units to guests for compensation for periods of less than 30 days.
   SOUTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (SCDES). A division of
the State of South Carolina responsible for protecting environmental health.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19; Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11- 25)
§ 55.04 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The enforcement and management of this chapter shall be the responsibility
of the City of Folly Beach Departments of Public Works (FBDPW) and Utilities.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19)
§ 55.05 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW STRUCTURES, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, CHANGE IN
OCCUPANCY, OR RENOVATION.
   A valid SCDES septic system permit must be submitted to the city for new
construction, substantial improvement, change in occupancy, or renovation that
increases the number of bedrooms. The number of bedrooms allowed shall be
determined as defined by this chapter so the system will not be undersized.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   The number of bedrooms must correspond to the number of gallons per
day of approved flow indicated on the SCDES permit application at a rate of 120
gallons per day, per bedroom.
      (2)   A permit to construct the system must be issued by SCDES before
construction on the structure or the septic system can begin.
      (3)   The proposed system must be located adjacent to the most landward
SCDES septic setback and as landward as possible unless the property owner can
demonstrate that the area is unsuitable. In no instance shall a building permit
be issued for a structure for which the proposed septic system is located
within the dune management area.
   (B)   Certificate of final approval. The owner must receive a SCDES
certificate of final approval to operate the system before the city can issue a
certificate of occupancy (CO.).
   (C)   Survey required. Any application for a change of occupancy, new
construction, substantial improvement, or renovation which relies on a SCDES
approved septic permit dated prior to January 1, 2007 shall require a survey
which:
      (1)   Is stamped by a licensed SC surveyor or engineer;
      (2)   Shows the location of all components of the proposed septic system;
      (3)   Indicates the nearest distance from any portion of the septic
system to the baseline or a critical line. Any baseline or critical line
indicated on the survey must be certified by SCDES;
      (4)   Clearly displays the setbacks required by SCDES at date of original
approval of the septic permit; and
      (5)   Shows all proposed parking areas.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2- 11-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Baseline inspection required prior to sale. A baseline inspection
using SCDES approved inspectors and FBDPW inspection forms is required prior to
the sale of any property with a septic system. The inspection shall take place
no earlier than 60 days prior to the sale of any ownership interest in
property. In the event that the inspection does not occur as specified prior to
the sale, an inspection must be completed within 30 days of the water transfer.
   (B)   Baseline inspection after failure and repair. Properties with a septic
system that has been repaired after notification of failure by the city are
required to have a baseline inspection using SCDES approved inspectors and
FBDPW inspection forms. The inspection shall take place no later than 60 days
after the repair to the system is complete.
   (C)   Baseline inspections for short term rentals. A baseline inspection
using SCDES approved inspectors and FBDPW inspection forms is required annually
for any property used for short term rentals.
   (D)   Copies of inspections required. The inspector shall give a copy of the
completed inspection report to the occupant, to the property owner, and to the
city. A copy of the inspection report, signed by the pumper, must be submitted
to the city within ten business days of the inspection. For sale of property, a
copy of the report also shall be provided to the city.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2- 11-25)
§ 55.07 SEPTIC SYSTEM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Role of city.
      (1)   The FBDPW (and/or SCDES) may conduct random site visits during
inspections, pumping, repairs, or alterations to evaluate the quality of such
work. The FBDPW and/or SCDES will also respond to citizen complaints with
regard to septic system services and/or inspections.
      (2)   The city shall inspect the front beach after major erosional events
to document eroded septic systems.
      (3)   The city shall inspect flooded areas to document failed systems.
      (4)   The city shall notify owners in situations where a failed system
has been identified and documented.
      (5)   The city shall notify owners and initiate water cut off procedures
for properties where failed systems have been identified and documented.
      (6)   If, upon receipt of a baseline inspection report that a septic
system is determined to be a failed system as defined by this chapter, the city
will notify SCDHEC of the failure within five business days of receiving the
inspection report.
      (7)   The city shall maintain a record of each septic system installed,
inspected, pumped, repaired and altered.
   (B)   Role of property owner.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that
the septic system is operated and maintained according to its designed use and
capacity, and approved management plan.
      (2)   Property owners shall provide all requested and known information
about the septic system to the city and the inspector to facilitate locating
and assessing the condition of the system.
      (3)   The property owner shall maintain the septic system so that it is
accessible for inspection and maintenance.
      (4)   The property owner shall maintain the septic system so that it is
protected from vehicular traffic and parking.
      (5)   The property owner shall protect all parts of the septic system
from erosion and prolonged inundation.
      (6)   The property owner shall request an evaluation from SCDES within
five days of notification of a failed system from the city or an inspection.
The property owner shall initiate repairs to failed systems within five days of
the issuance of an SCDES evaluation. If repairs are not completed in 90 days,
the property owner shall relocate the system as required by §
55.05(A)(3).
      (7)   The property owner shall initiate minor repairs such as replacing
cracked lids and missing or broken tees and baffles as required by a baseline
inspection to bring the septic system into good operating condition within 30
days of the inspection. Evidence of said work must be submitted to the city.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2- 11-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.08 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES FOR OFFENSES.
   Failure to comply with the inspection and repair provisions of this chapter
will be deemed a violation of
Chapter 94: Health and Sanitation; Nuisances. Penalties, up to and including
termination of water services, will be administered as per §
10.99.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 4-9-19)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   GOLF CARTS AND LOW SPEED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Adoption of state law
   
70.03   Removal of objects obstructing views
   
70.04   Removal of debris from streets
   
70.05   Authority to direct traffic, prohibit parking, and issue parking
citations
   
70.06   Moving a vehicle that has been impounded or immobilized
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMMOBILIZE. To prevent freedom of movement of a vehicle. This can be
accomplished by physically immobilizing it, for example with a “boot,” by
posting an official notice on the vehicle that prohibits it from being moved,
or by other means.
   IMPOUND. To take physical custody of a vehicle, usually by moving it to a
secured facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. That area of public property between the roadway and the
property line of any private property adjacent to the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That part of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder or berm A ROADWAY therefore, is the
part of a street which vehicles are driven. (See S.C. Code § 56-5-460).
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular traffic. A STREET therefore, includes the shoulder and the right-
of-way as well as the part on which vehicles drive. (See S.C. Code § 56-5-430.)
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways contained in S.C. Code Title
56, Chapter 5 is adopted by reference and made part of the Traffic and Parking
Code of the city.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to try violations of state traffic laws, see S.C. Code § 56-5-6150
   Authority to further regulate traffic, see S.C. Code §§ 56-3-30 and 56-5-710
   Authority to further regulate parking, see S.C. Code § 56-5-10(1)
§ 70.03 REMOVAL OF OBJECTS OBSTRUCTING VIEWS.
   Every bush, tree, plant or other article which obstructs a clear view of
traffic is hereby declared a public nuisance, and the city is authorized to
remove the nuisance or cause their removal without notice.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 70.04 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS FROM STREETS.
   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from the highway or street
shall remove any glass or other substance dropped on the street from the
vehicle.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 70.05 AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC, PROHIBIT PARKING, AND ISSUE PARKING
CITATIONS.
   The Director of Public Safety and the Director’s designees are authorized to
direct traffic, issue parking citations, and prohibit or restrict parking of
vehicles on public property or along streets.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 70.06 MOVING A VEHICLE THAT HAS BEEN IMPOUNDED OR IMMOBILIZED.
   It shall be unlawful to move a vehicle that has been legally impounded or
immobilized, or to encourage or assist anyone doing so, without permission from
the Director of Public Safety or the Director’s designee.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B), any person violating a
provision of this traffic and parking code for which no specific penalty is
prescribed shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment
for not more than 30 days as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   All violations of the state statutes adopted by reference in §
70.02 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment for
not more than 30 days as provided in S.C. Code § 56-5-6150, unless otherwise
specified in state law.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Driving on the beach
   
71.02   Careless driving
   
71.03   Conduct that endangers people or obstructs traffic
   
71.04   Restrictions on skateboards and use of sidewalks
   
71.05   Placing debris on streets
Cross-reference:
   Beach Preservation and Construction Provisions, see
Chapter 151
§ 71.01 DRIVING ON THE BEACH.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on the beach, dunes, or
vehicle accesses to the beach unless authorized by the Department of Public
Safety or City Council.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 28-17, passed 10-10-17)
§ 71.02 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle without care,
caution, and full regard for the safety of persons and property. The operation
of a vehicle when it is not in safe condition shall be prima facie evidence of
careless driving. Careless driving shall be a lesser included offense of
reckless driving.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 28-17, passed 10-10-17)
§ 71.03 CONDUCT THAT ENDANGERS PEOPLE OR OBSTRUCTS TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any activity on a sidewalk, street, alley,
public right-of-way, or other public property that endangers any person or
interferes with the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to unreasonably hamper, obstruct,
impede, or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person,
vehicle, or animal participating or used in a parade.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 28-17, passed 10-10-17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1560(a)
§ 71.04 RESTRICTIONS ON SKATEBOARDS AND USE OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or ride a bicycle, skateboard, or other
vehicle or transportation device of any description upon the sidewalks of the
city, except as provided in division (C).
   (B)   No person shall ride or operate a skateboard on Center Street or in
any area where prohibited by official signs.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit the use of a wheelchair, perambulator,
or similar vehicle to transport a person whose physical condition requires the
use of the device for transportation.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 28-17, passed 10-10-17)
§ 71.05 PLACING DEBRIS ON STREETS.
   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street any glass bottles, glass,
nails, tacks, wires, cans, papers, trash, or any other substance, and any
person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any street any such
material shall immediately remove it or cause it to be removed.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 28-17, passed 10-10-17)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Prohibited stopping, standing, and parking areas
   
72.02   Private “no parking” signs
   
72.03   Parking with the flow of traffic
   
72.04   Parallel parking
   
72.05   Parking near curbs and in marked parking spaces
   
72.06   Blocking or impeding flow of traffic
   
72.07   Loading and unloading passengers
   
72.08   Commercial deliveries
   
72.09   Boat landing rules
   
72.10   Prohibited activities
   
72.11   Property left on a street or right-of-way
   
72.12   Running engines
   
72.13   Moving or damaging a parking sign
   
72.14   Moving a parking citation
   
72.15   Owner responsibility for parking violations
   
72.16   Parking citations
   
72.17   Parking bonds
   
72.18   Parking contractors
   
72.19   Paid parking areas
   
72.20   Residential parking permits
   
72.21   Reserved
   
72.22   Defrauding, opening, impairing, or damaging paid parking devices
   
72.23   Parking in designated handicapped spaces
   
72.24   Timed parking on Center Street
§ 72.01 PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING AREAS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the directions of a police officer or other authorized person or
official traffic control device, no person shall:
   (A)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
      (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street, sometimes called double parking.
      (2)   On a sidewalk.
      (3)   Within an intersection.
      (4)   Within a crosswalk, beach access or midblock right-of-way.
      (5)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings.
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      (7)   Upon any bridge.
      (8)   At any place where official signs or traffic-control devices
prohibit stopping.
      (9)   On the beach, dunes, or vehicle accesses to the beach unless
authorized by the Department of Public Safety or City Council.
   (B)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers or while actually engaged in loading or
unloading property:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway. Vehicles that are parked
in streets or right-of-ways and that are blocking public or private driveways
can be removed at the vehicle owner’s expense at the discretion of any Public
Safety Officer.
      (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
      (3)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection or within 20 feet
of the center point of the curve or corner of an intersection.
      (4)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      (5)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite to any fire station within 75 feet of the
entrance when properly signposted.
      (6)   At any place where official signs or traffic-control devices
prohibit standing or parking.
      (7)   Where curbs are painted yellow by the city.
      (8)   In an officially marked fire zone or lane.
      (9)   Upon any private property that has met all state requirements of
posting visible notices and written consent of enforcement of traffic laws to
the city on their respective property.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 18-15, passed 10-13-15; Am. Ord. 38-16,
passed 2-14-17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state laws, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-2530(A) and (B)
§ 72.02 PRIVATE “NO PARKING” SIGNS.
   (A)   Parking in the public right-of-way of any street shall be restricted
or prohibited only by official signs installed by the city, county, or state.
Signs which give the appearance of restricting parking in the right-of-way in
areas other than approved driveways shall be prohibited in all districts.
   (B)   Property owners who want to have signs prohibiting parking in their
private driveways shall use signs obtained from the city at cost.
   (C)   Official signs restricting parking in the right- of-way shall only be
issued to residential property owners who demonstrated a compelling need to
restrict or prohibit parking in the right-of-way adjacent to their property,
other than in an approved driveway, and were approved for official signs
restricting parking to home owners, tenants, and their guests, permanently or
temporarily prior to December 31, 2023. In no case shall the area restricted
exceed the area for one parallel parking space per dwelling unit for
multifamily uses or two parallel parking spaces for single family uses.
   (D)   The application fee for a replacement private no parking sign is $50.
Senior citizens (65 and older) shall have the fee waived for their primary
residence.
   (E)   The Building Official shall maintain and provide to Public Safety a
list of all properties that have been granted approval for private no parking
signs along with a site plan showing the location of approved private no
parking signs.
   (F)   City employees shall be authorized to remove or cause the removal,
without notice, of any unofficial sign attempting or appearing to attempt to
restrict or prohibit parking on a street or in a right-of-way and any
unofficial sign prohibiting parking in a private driveway.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 23-16, passed 10-18-16; Am. Ord. 38-16,
passed 2-14-17; Am. Ord. 007-25, passed 6-10-25)
§ 72.03 PARKING WITH THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles shall park facing with the flow of traffic.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 72.04 PARALLEL PARKING.
   All vehicles shall be parked parallel to the roadway unless: the vehicle is
legally parked in a driveway, official marks or signs permit angle parking and
the vehicle is parked at an angle to the roadway indicated by the marks or
signs, or the vehicle is parked in an area where other than parallel parking
has been approved by City Council.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 72.05 PARKING NEAR CURBS AND IN MARKED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where parking is
allowed shall be stopped or parked with the wheels of the vehicle parallel to
and within 12 inches of the curb.
   (B)   Where lines have been painted to indicate parking spaces, parked
vehicles must be entirely within those lines.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 56-5-2560
§ 72.06 BLOCKING OR IMPEDING FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon a street in a
manner that interferes with the free passage of emergency or other vehicles.
   (B)   No person shall park in a manner that leaves a portion of a vehicle or
trailer protruding into the roadway, including side mirrors or objects being
transported.
   (C)   If a vehicle or trailer is parked on the side of a roadway, all tires
must be completely out of the roadway. If the side of the roadway is marked by
a white line, all tires must be completely off the white line.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 72.07 LOADING AND UNLOADING PASSENGERS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger zone.
   (B)   No operator of a vehicle shall load or unload passengers, except when
the vehicle is stopped, and only then when the movement can be made with
safety.
   (C)   No person shall open any door of a motor vehicle unless it is
reasonably safe to do so, and can be done without interfering with the movement
of other traffic, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of a
vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary
to load or unload passengers.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 56-5-3822
§ 72.08 COMMERCIAL DELIVERIES.
   (A)   Commercial deliveries in the City of Folly Beach between 2nd Street
East and 2nd Street West are only permitted between 2:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.,
Monday through Thursday and between 2:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. (noon) Friday
through Sunday. The only commercial loading permitted in this area after these
times is:
      (1)   From a single, marked, legal parking space; or
      (2)   Private property; or
      (3)   The first block alleys behind Center Street East and West.
   (B)   During loading hours in division (A), no person shall stand or park a
vehicle in a loading zone for any purpose other than the expeditious unloading
or loading of commercial materials. Use of a loading zone shall be limited to
30 minutes for vehicles with commercial license plates from any state.
Commercial loading zones are only legal parking spaces for deliveries between
2:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday, and between 2 a.m. and 12:00
p.m. (noon), Friday through Sunday.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 38-16, passed 2-14-17; Am. Ord. 10-17,
passed 6-13-17)
§ 72.09 BOAT LANDING RULES.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Abandon or park any vehicle or trailer on the premises of any public
boat landing for a period of more than 72 consecutive hours;
   (B)   Transact any commercial functions (i.e., give or receive money or
other goods and services in exchange for money) within the premises of any
public boat landing;
   (C)   Utilize the parking areas of any public boat landing solely for the
customers of any for-profit business;
   (D)   Use any public boat landing primarily to advertise any vehicle,
trailer, or other property for sale;
   (E)   Utilize a public boat landing for the storage, loading, or
transportation of construction materials without a special permit or
authorization from the Charleston County Park and Recreation Commission;
   (F)   Utilize the parking spaces dedicated for vehicles with boat trailers
for parking vehicles without boat trailers;
   (G)   Obstruct a boat launch, “make ready” lane, or “tie-down” area with any
vehicle or trailer, or tie to a floating dock for more than 15 consecutive
minutes;
   (H)   Consume alcohol or other intoxicants at a public boat landing; or
   (I)   Swim at a public boat landing.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 25-21, passed 8-10-21)
§ 72.10 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway, right-of-way, or
other public property for the primary purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Advertising of any nature whatsoever; or
   (C)   Greasing or repairing the vehicle except for repairs necessitated by
an emergency.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 72.11 PROPERTY LEFT ON A STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be illegal for any person or business to leave any item of personal
property, other than a legally parked, operable and legally registered motor
vehicle (including vehicles with attached trailers), entirely or partially in a
street or right-of-way. Trailers legally attached to an operable and legally
registered motor vehicle may be parked in the right-of-way for no more than 24
hours, unless the right-of-way is adjacent to the vehicle owner’s property.
City Council, the Mayor, or his or her designee may grant temporary variances
of this section for good cause. For the purposes of this section, PERSONAL
PROPERTY does not include trash, garbage, or other items that have been legally
placed in a right-of-way for pickup by the city or county. Property or trailers
left for greater than 24 hours may be towed or removed by the Department of
Public Safety at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 38-16, passed 2-14-17; Am. Ord. 10-20,
passed 6-23-20)
Statutory reference:
   Removing abandoned or derelict vehicles from state highways, see S.C. Code §
56-5-5850
Cross reference:
   Trash, debris, and derelict vehicles on private property, see
Ch. 94 of the Code of Ordinances
§ 72.12 RUNNING ENGINES.
   No person shall allow the engine or other mechanical equipment on a motor
vehicle stopped or standing on a public street, with the exception of
commercial vehicles engaged in commercial deliveries, to continue to operate
longer than five minutes, unless movement of the vehicle is prevented by
traffic control signals or is physically blocked by other vehicles.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 38-16, passed 2-14-17)
§ 72.13 MOVING OR DAMAGING A PARKING SIGN.
   It shall be unlawful to move, alter, damage, deface, or otherwise disturb an
official sign that regulates parking.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 72.14 MOVING A PARKING CITATION.
   It shall be unlawful to move a parking citation to another motor vehicle.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
§ 72.15 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), the person in whose name a vehicle
is registered or leased shall be absolutely responsible for any illegal
parking. It shall be no defense that the vehicle was illegally parked by
someone other than the registered owner unless it is shown that at the time of
the violation the vehicle was stolen.
   (B)   The registered owner of any motor vehicle leased or rented to another
is not liable for any municipal traffic or parking violation occurring while
the leased or rented vehicle was not in his or her possession or control, if
upon notice of the violation the registered owner notifies the Clerk, City
Recorder, or other appropriate municipal official of the court in which the
case is pending of the name, address, and driver's license number of the lessee
of the vehicle on the date the violation occurred. This notice must be
notarized. If the registered owner fails to submit the notice within seven
working days of receipt of the violation, the court in which the case is heard
may take such action as the interest of justice requires, including finding the
registered owner of the motor vehicle liable for the violation.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 56-5-715
§ 72.16 PARKING CITATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to S.C. Code 1976, § 56-7-80(G), a notice of violation in the
form of a parking citation, may be issued in lieu of immediately issuing a
summons to its owner or driver by a police officer or other person appointed as
a code enforcement officer for any for any vehicle parked, standing, or stopped
in violation of a city ordinance or state law. A copy of the parking citation
shall be issued by placing it on the windshield of the illegally parked vehicle
in a prominent place thereon. No parking citations shall be issued for
violations of S.C. Code § 16-11-760, which requires the issuance of a uniform
traffic ticket.
   (B)   Parking citations must cite only one violation and contain, at a
minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The state, license plate number, and make of the vehicle in
violation of this section;
      (2)   The name and title of the person issuing the citation;
      (3)   The date and time when the citation was issued;
      (4)   The nature and description of the parking violation observed;
      (5)   The manner by which an administrative review of the citation by the
parking contractor to determine an error of issuance may be requested; and
      (6)   Information advising the owner/ operator of the vehicle that they
may admit the violation and pay the penalty listed on the citation or must,
within 30 days from the date of the citation, deny the violation and request to
appear at a hearing in Municipal Court and advising that failure to do so may
result in impoundment or immobilization of the vehicle.
   (C)   Parking citations for which no error of issuance has been found by
administrative review must be filed with the Municipal Court and may be
disposed of only by official action of the Court or by payment of the fine. It
shall be unlawful for any person to alter or destroy any parking citation
issued under this section except in a manner consistent with this section and
state law. Employees of parking contractors who issue parking citations shall
attend Municipal Court and testify when citations they issued are being
contested, if requested to do so by a Municipal Court Judge or the Director of
Public Safety.
   (D)   No person shall solicit the cancellation of any parking citation.
   (E)   A person who issues a parking citation shall be authorized to cancel
the citation within 24 hours of issuing the citation, but the reason for the
cancellation must be shown on the citation.
   (F)   No parking citation shall be dismissed absent a determination that no
violation occurred. Late payment penalties may be reduced or removed if
mitigating circumstances exist. Whenever a citation is dismissed, the reason
for doing so must be recorded and retained.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12: Am. Ord. 006-25, passed 6-10-25; Am. Ord. 014-25,
passed 9-8-25)
§ 72.17 PARKING BONDS.
   (A)   If the owner of a vehicle is found in violation of any offenses
detailed in this chapter and pays the penalty or appears before the Municipal
Court and is found guilty, the penalty shall be as follows:
      (1)   Parked within 15 feet of a fire hydrant: $100;
      (2)   Parked on the beach, a dune or in a vehicle access to the beach:
$200;
      (3)   Parked in marked handicap area: $1,000;
      (4)   Commercial loading or delivery violations: $250;
      (5)   Parking in violation of any other parking regulation, including
timed parking: $60.
   (B)   The penalty assessed for late payment shall be determined from the
amount of the original bond as follows:
 
       31ST DAY 61ST DAY
$60    $70      $120
$100   $110     $220
$200   $210     $420
$250   $260     $520
$1,000 $1,010   $2,020
 
   (C)   Any parking citation which remains unpaid after the 90th day may be
turned over to an outside agency, approved by City Council, which shall be
authorized to collect all payment due and levy additional charges as allowed by
South Carolina state law.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 10-13-15; Am. Ord. 10-17, passed 6-13-17; Am. Ord. 10-20,
passed 6-23-20; Am. Ord. 031-21, passed 10-19-21)
§ 72.18 PARKING CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   The city may enter into contracts with a private entity (hereinafter
referred to as a “parking contractor”) for the enforcement of parking
ordinances in the city and the management of paid parking areas including the
collection of fees. The city, through use of a contract, shall maintain
sufficient supervision and control of the parking contractor to ensure that the
parking contractor only performs administrative, non- discretionary functions
to carry the city’s ordinances into effect.
   (B)   The city shall be solely responsible for establishing parking
regulations, violations, fines and penalties. Pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-7-32,
City Council authorizes the Director of Public Safety to appoint employees of a
parking contractor as code enforcement officers to administer and enforce the
city’s parking regulations.
      (1)   Code enforcement officers employed by parking contractors shall not
have the power of custodial arrest.
      (2)   Code enforcement officers employed by parking contractors may issue
citations, collect payments, and perform other administrative, non-
discretionary duties and responsibilities approved by City Council.
      (3)   Code enforcement officers employed by parking contractors may only
issue citations on forms that have been approved by the Director of Public
Safety in accordance with the city’s ordinances and any other procedures and
guidance adopted by the city.
      (4)   Code enforcement officers employed by parking contractors whose
duties include parking enforcement, including the issuance of parking citations
or collection and handling of money shall:
         (a)   Undergo criminal background checks and drug testing to be
conducted by the parking contractor. The results of the background checks and
drug tests shall be provided to the Director of Public Safety; and
         (b)   Undergo a training program approved by the Director of Public
Safety before they undertake any enforcement activities.
      (5)   The Director of Public Safety shall approve each employee to be
appointed as a code enforcement officer before they engage in any parking
enforcement activities, and their approval to engage in these activities can be
withdrawn by the Director of Public Safety or City Council at any time.
      (5)   The parking contractor shall not be entitled to any revenues
generated by way of parking fines, parking citations, or any boot fees, or
immobilization fee assessed for parking violations.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 33-12, passed 1-22-13; Am. Ord. 006-25,
passed 6-10-25)
§ 72.19 PAID PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   City Council may designate certain public parking areas as paid
parking areas in which a fee shall be paid for parking during designated hours.
The city shall be solely responsible for establishing fees, violations,
penalties, and regulations related to the city’s paid parking program.
   (B)   City Council authorizes the Director of Public Safety to appoint
employees of a parking contractor as code enforcement officers to administer
and enforce the paid parking program.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle shall promptly after entering a paid parking
area make payment for parking in that area.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to stand or park a vehicle within a paid parking
area without making payment in accordance with instructions for that area or to
occupy a paid parking space beyond the length of time secured by payment.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to stand or park a vehicle in a paid parking area
except within the limits of marked or otherwise designated paid parking spaces.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 006-25, passed 6-10-25)
§ 72.20 RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMITS.
   (A)   (A)   Qualified residents shall be entitled to parking decals that
allow the residents’ vehicles to be parked free of charge in designated paid
beach access parking areas owned by the city. Parking decals shall not entitle
residents to free parking along rights-of-way under the jurisdiction of the
South Carolina Department of Transportation. The decals shall be used
exclusively on no more than two of a resident’s personal vehicles, including
golf carts. Parking decals shall be affixed to the lower left corner of
vehicles’ windshields.
      (1)   To establish ownership of any vehicle for which a parking decal is
applied for, a current South Carolina Department of Vehicles registration shall
be required.
      (2)   Vehicles registered to a family member residing with the applicant
may be considered personal vehicles of the applicant.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of a parking permit, the applicant must pay
any outstanding fines for paid parking or other traffic violations within the
city that are associated with the plate number of the vehicles for which the
permit is proposed.
   (B)   Residential parking decals shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   (C)   A full-time resident of the city is entitled to two residential
parking decals. In no case shall more than two parking decals be issued for a
residential unit. Proof of residency can be demonstrated by providing a current
South Carolina Department of Vehicles registration and one of the following
five items, with both registration and second proof indicating the physical
address of the residence:
      (1)   A driver’s license showing a city residential address;
      (2)   A voter’s registration card showing a city residential address;
      (3)   A lease agreement indicating term of lease (which must have more
than 90 days remaining) and address;
      (4)   A letter from the owner of the residential unit stating that:
         (a)   The decal applicant is leasing the property for more than 90
consecutive days; or
         (b)   The applicant has permission to live in the unit and the owner
expects the applicant to live there for more than 90 consecutive days.
      (5)   A current utility or tax bill (within the last 90 days of date of
application, or most current year's tax bill) showing a Folly Beach residential
address.
   (D)   A part-time resident who owns a residential unit that is never rented
is entitled to one residential parking decal. In no case shall more than one
parking decal be issued for a part-time resident’s residential unit. Proof of
ownership and a sworn statement by the owner of the unit that the unit is never
rented shall be provided.
   (E)   Residential unit does not include a hotel or motel room, short term
rooming house, or vacant lot.
   (F)   Seasonal renters and other people who cannot demonstrate that they
will be living in a residential unit for more than 90 consecutive days
following the date of an application for a parking decal do not qualify for
residential parking decals and shall be prohibited from obtaining decals.
   (G)   The entity that issues residents’ parking decals shall ensure that
only one application for parking decals is approved per residential unit and
shall maintain a record of the addresses of residential units that receive
residents’ parking decals and of the vehicles on which the decals are to be
placed.
   (H)   Residential parking decals shall not be sold, bartered, loaned, or
given away. A violation of this section shall result in the loss of residential
parking permits for a period of one year. A second violation shall result in
the permanent loss of residential parking permits.
   (I)   A lost or stolen decal may be replaced upon payment of a fee of $10
and the submission of a sworn statement that the decal was lost or stolen. No
decal may be replaced more than once in any 12-month period. This division
shall not apply if the decal that is being replaced is surrendered to the
parking office.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord. 030-21,
passed 11-9-21)
§ 72.21 RESERVED.
§ 72.22 DEFRAUDING, OPENING, IMPAIRING, OR DAMAGING PAID PARKING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to defraud, open, impair, or damage a
paid parking device or related equipment.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 5-28-13)
§ 72.23 PARKING IN DESIGNATED HANDICAPPED SPACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a parking place clearly
designated for handicapped persons unless the vehicle bears the distinguishing
license plate or placard as provided in S.C. Code § 56-3-1960, as amended.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who is not handicapped or who is not
transporting a handicapped person to exercise the parking privileges granted
handicapped persons pursuant to S.C. Code § 56-3-1960, as amended.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days for each offense.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 10-13-15)
§ 72.24 TIMED PARKING ON CENTER STREET.
   (A)   City Council hereby designates Center Street as a timed parking area
in which a limit is established for the duration of time a vehicle may be
continuously parked.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to stand or park a vehicle in any public parking
space on Center Street for longer than two hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   The penalty for parking beyond the allowed time limit shall be $60 as
described in §
72.17(A)(5).
(Ord. 031-21, passed 10-19-21; Am. Ord. 024-22, passed 8-9-22)
CHAPTER 73: GOLF CARTS AND LOW SPEED VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Golf carts allowed on streets
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Rules governing the operation of golf carts and low speed vehicles
   
73.04   Golf cart permits and insurance requirements
   
73.05   City residential golf cart permits
   
73.06   Rental of golf carts and low speed vehicles
§ 73.01 GOLF CARTS ALLOWED ON STREETS.
   Golf carts are allowed to be driven on most streets in the city if they have
permits from the city.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 25-14, passed 1-13-15; Am. Ord. 23-17,
passed 8-8-17; Am. Ord. 15-19, passed 6-11-19)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAYLIGHT HOURS. Thirty minutes prior to sunrise to thirty minutes after
sunset as posted by the National Weather Service.
   GOLF CARTS.  Motor vehicles designed and manufactured for operation on a
golf course for sporting or recreational purposes, and that are not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour.
   LOW SPEED VEHICLES.  Four-wheeled vehicles that are built to specific
federal standards by licensed manufacturers and can achieve speeds of at least
20 miles per hour, but not more than 25 miles per hour, and have a gross
vehicle weight of less than 3,000 pounds. A low speed vehicle must be titled so
that the manufacturer’s or importer’s certificate of origin clearly identifies
the vehicle as a low speed vehicle, and certifies that the vehicle was
manufactured in compliance with the equipment requirements for low speed
vehicles in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500. Homemade low speed vehicles, retrofitted golf
carts, or any other similar vehicles, shall not qualify as low speed vehicles.
Farm vehicles and all-terrain vehicles are not considered low speed vehicles
for the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 25-14, passed 1-13-15; Am. Ord. 23-17,
passed 8-8-17; Am. Ord. 15-19, passed 6-11-19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code §§ 56-1-10(19) and 56-2-120(A)
§ 73.03 RULES GOVERNING THE OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND LOW SPEED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Golf carts.
      (1)   During daylight hours only, a permitted golf cart may be operated
within four miles of the address on the registration certificate, and only on a
secondary highway or street for which the posted speed limit is 35 miles per
hour or less. Golf carts may cross Center Street or Folly Road, but may not
drive on Center Street or Folly Road. (See S.C. Code § 56-2-105(B)(1) and (3).)
      (2)   A person operating a golf cart must be at least 16 years of age and
hold a valid driver’s license. The operator of a permitted golf cart being
operated on a highway or street must have in his or her possession:
         (a)   The registration certificate issued by the State of South
Carolina;
         (b)   Proof of liability insurance for the golf cart; and
         (c)   His or her driver’s license. (See S.C. Code § 56-2-105(C).)
      (3)   Golf carts may not be operated at any time when windshield wipers
are in use as a result of rain, sleet or snow, or when inclement weather or
environmental factors severely reduce the ability to clearly discern persons
and vehicles on the street or highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead. Any
person who violates this division is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, may be fined up to $25. (See S.C. Code §§ 56-5-4450.)
      (4)   Golf carts may only operate daylight hours. Any person violating
the provisions of this division shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned for not more
than 60 days or both. (See S.C. Code § 56-5-4470.)
      (5)   A golf cart must be equipped with a rear vision mirror.
      (6)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the
number of persons for whom individual seating is installed and provided on the
golf cart. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart, and
no part of the body of the operator or any occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while it is in motion.
      (7)   The driver of a golf cart shall use hand signals when turning or
stopping unless the golf cart is equipped with turn signals.
      (8)   Golf carts are subject to all traffic rules and regulations and
parking laws governing the operation of motor vehicles.
   (B)   Low speed vehicles.
      (1)   Low speed vehicles may be operated on a secondary highway or street
for which the posted speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less. (See S.C. Code §
56-2-100(A)(B)(E).)
      (2)   A person operating a low speed vehicle must be at least 16 years of
age and hold a valid driver’s license. The operator of a low speed vehicle
being operated on a highway or street must have in his or her possession:
         (a)   The registration certificate issued by the State of South
Carolina;
         (b)   Proof of liability insurance for the low speed vehicle; and
         (c)   His or her driver’s license. (See S.C. Code §§ 56-2-110 and 56-
2-100(D).)
      (3)   A low speed vehicle must meet the requirements of Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard 500 (49 C.F.R. § 571.500) at all times when operated on
any highway.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 25-14, passed 1-13-15; Am. Ord. 23-17,
passed 8-8-17; Am. Ord. 15-19, passed 6-11-19)
§ 73.04 GOLF CART PERMITS AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Golf carts, whether owned or rented, must have:
   (A)   A current decal from the South Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles
that is displayed in a clearly visible place on the golf cart;
   (B)   Two current city golf cart permit decals from the city that are
affixed to the golf cart on the left rear and left front fender; and
   (C)   Current liability insurance in an amount not less than required by
state law for motor vehicles operated on public highways.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 25-14, passed 1-13-15; Am. Ord. 23-17,
passed 8-8-17; Am. Ord. 15-19, passed 6-11-19)
§ 73.05 CITY RESIDENTIAL GOLF CART PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for a city permit shall be made to the Department of
Public Safety before a golf cart may be driven on any street in the city. The
permits shall be valid from January 1 to December 31 each year. The following
fees shall apply:
      (1)   Beginning January 1, 2021, there shall be no fee for golf cart
permits for carts registered by residents or property owners for personal use.
Rental golf carts shall display a rental decal subject to § 73.06(H).
   (B)   The following must be presented to the Department of Public Safety to
obtain or renew a permit:
      (1)   Proof of registration with the South Carolina Department of Motor
Vehicles;
      (2)   Proof current liability insurance in an amount not less than
required by state law for motor vehicles operated on public highways;
      (3)   A certification that the golf cart has a rear view mirror and is
otherwise in safe operating condition; and
      (4)   A certification:
         (a)   That the owner has read this chapter or a city-prepared document
that explains the laws related to golf carts; and
         (b)   That the owner will not allow anyone to operate the golf cart
until that person has also reviewed the rules.
   (C)   A lost or stolen decal may be replaced upon payment of a fee of $ 10
and the execution of a sworn statement that the decal was lost or stolen. No
decal shall be replaced more than once in any calendar year.
   (D)   If a golf cart is parked on a street, right-of-way, or other public
property without a valid city golf cart permit, the Department of Public Safety
or anyone who has been approved by the Department or City Council shall be
authorized to issue a parking citation and to impound or immobilize the
vehicle.
   (E)   If a golf cart is parking in a city-operated paid parking area the
driver must pay to park unless they have a valid residential or non-residential
parking pass displayed. A golf cart permit decal shall not be used as a
residential or non-residential parking pass and does not entitle the owner or
driver of the golf cart to park in city-operated paid parking areas.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 23-17, passed 8-8-17; Am. Ord. 15-19,
passed 6-11-19; Am. Ord. 20-20, passed 9-22-20; Am. Ord. 14-21, passed 5-11-21)
Cross reference:
   Definitions of impound and immobilize, see §
70.01(D) and (E)
§ 73.06 RENTAL OF GOLF CARTS AND LOW SPEED VEHICLES.
   (A)   A business that rents golf carts must have all licenses required by
law.
   (B)   Each rented golf cart or low speed vehicle shall have the rental
company’s name affixed to the cart in such a manner as to be clearly visible.
   (C)   A company that rents golf carts or low speed vehicles shall rent only
to an individual who:
      (1)   Is at least 18 years old;
      (2)   Has a valid driver’s license; and
      (3)   Signs a certification that all persons who will operate the golf
cart or low speed vehicle have read or will read this chapter or a city-
prepared document that explains the applicable laws.
   (D)   Rental companies shall keep copies of all rental contracts,
certifications, and the renters’ drivers’ licenses for at least one year.
   (E)   All golf cart or low speed vehicle rental companies must have a local
contact who can physically respond to the site within 30 minutes in case of
emergency or other need by the city.
   (F)   Any rental golf cart or low speed vehicle must be registered to a
physical address in Downtown Commercial District or Island Commercial District.
   (G)   All rented golf carts must display label in plain sight of driver with
the following content:
      (1)   Operate during day light hours;
      (2)   Do not drive on Center Street or Folly Road, can cross Center
Street;
      (3)   Must be 18 years of age, with a valid driver's license;
      (4)   Must use hand signals when turning and stopping;
      (5)   Subject to all traffic and parking rules; and
      (6)   Occupants not to exceed number of seats; and
      (7)   Must pay to park in any city-operated paid parking area.
   (H)   Businesses shall obtain and display a rental golf cart or low speed
vehicle (LSV) decal.
   (I)   (1)   Rental decals will be issued by the city for a fee to be set by
Council.
      (2)   Rental decals shall be affixed on left rear and left front fender.
      (3)   Rental decals shall not be renewed for any rental company without
payment of all outstanding fines issued prior to December 31 of the preceding
year to golf carts operated by the company.
(Ord. 27-12, passed 10-23-12; Am. Ord. 23-17, passed 8-8-17; Am. Ord. 15-19,
passed 6-11-19; Am. Ord. 20-20, passed 9-22-20; Am. Ord. 26-20, passed 12-8-20)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   PARKS
      
93.   TREE AND CANOPY CONSERVATION
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
95.   ANIMALS
      
96.   EQUAL PRIVILEGES TO PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
90.01   Fire Prevention Code shall govern; variances
   
90.02   Removal of combustible waste and rubbish from property
   
90.03   Grills, fire pits, oyster roasts and other outdoor burning
   
90.04   Sprinkler systems
   
90.05   Building height limits
§ 90.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE SHALL GOVERN; VARIANCES.
   (A)   The most current version of the International Fire Code with South
Carolina modifications (Fire Prevention Code) shall govern fire prevention and
protection in the city, except as modified by this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code and any more restrictive provisions of this code of ordinances
or state law, the provisions of this code or state law shall control.
   (C)   The City Council may grant variances to modify any of the provisions
of this chapter, if recommended by the Building Official or the Resident Fire
Marshal.
(Ord. 09-14, passed 11-11-14)
Cross-reference:
   International Fire Code with S.C. modifications adopted in §
150.002(A)(2)
§ 90.02 REMOVAL OF COMBUSTIBLE WASTE AND RUBBISH FROM PROPERTY.
   Property owners shall not allow accumulations of wastepaper, hay, grass,
straw, weeds, litter or combustible waste or rubbish of any kind to remain upon
any roof or any court, yard, vacant lot or open space.
(Ord. 09-14, passed 11-11-14)
§ 90.03 GRILLS, FIRE PITS, OYSTER ROASTS AND OTHER OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   Burning on public property. Any form of burning is prohibited on
public property, including the beach, beach accesses, parking areas, and
protected lands (e.g., dunes and wetlands), except as follows:
      (1)   Gas grills may be used on the beach and in any areas designated by
the Department of Public Safety for gas grills in the Folly River Park and
other parks and playgrounds;
      (2)   Permanently mounted grills maybe used if they are provided in a
city or county park; and
      (3)   Special events on public property may use outdoor fires for cooking
in other than designated areas if permits are issued by the Resident Fire
Marshal or Building Official.
   (B)   Burning on private property.
      (1)   Portable gas and charcoal grills, and portable outdoor fireplaces
and devices, such as chimeneas, fire pits, fire rings, fire bowls, fire tables,
gel burners and propane patio heaters, shall be used in accordance with the
manufacturers’ instructions. Property owners and residents are encouraged to
have portable custom-made grills, smokers and other portable outdoor fire
devices inspected by the Department of Public Safety.
         (a)   In buildings with three or more family dwellings, portable
outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated within 15 feet of a structure or
combustible material.
         (b)   In buildings with three or more family dwellings, charcoal
burners and other open-flame cooking devices shall not be operated on
combustible balconies or within ten feet of combustible construction, unless
the building, balconies and decks are protected by an automatic sprinkler
system.
      (2)   Property owners and residents are encouraged to have permanently
constructed outdoor grills, fireplaces, ovens, barbeque pits and fire pits
inspected by the Department of Public Safety.
      (3)   Small open fires like camp fires and oyster roast fires are
permitted when used for the preparation of food for immediate consumption, but
open fires where the pile size is more than three feet in diameter and more
than two feet in height are prohibited.
      (4)   The placement and use of permanently constructed outdoor
fireplaces, ovens, barbeque pits and fire pits, as well as camp fires and
oyster roast fires, shall comply with the following criteria:
         (a)   If wood is used, it shall be clean untreated wood that is free
of paint, stain, glue or other coating.
         (b)   Fires in approved containers shall be located more than 15 feet
from any structure of combustible material, and camp fires and oyster roast
fires shall be located at least 25 feet from any structure of combustible
material.
         (c)   A fire shall not be located inside of a structure, tent, canopy,
carport, gazebo or shed, or under or on a structure constructed of wood or
other combustible material, such as a deck or a dock, except for a fire in a
fireplace or oven that is built within a permitted construction project.
      (5)   On commercial properties, outdoor cooking with grills or other
outdoor fires is prohibited unless a permit is issued by the Resident Fire
Marshal and the Building Official.
   (C)   Burning of trash, waste and debris. Open burning of construction
debris, garbage, hazardous waste, man-made trash and natural trash is
prohibited.
   (D)   Burning for land clearing. Open burning for the purpose of land
clearing, cleaning or right-of-way maintenance shall only be undertaken
pursuant to a burn plan that complies with all applicable laws, and after a
permit is issued by the Resident Fire Marshal or the Building Official. The
permit shall be on site and accessible.
   (E)   Fire monitoring. All fires shall be constantly attended until
extinguished, and fire prevention equipment, such as a fire extinguisher or a
water hose connected to a water supply, shall be easily accessible.
   (F)   Sky lanterns, floating lanterns and similar devices. The release of
sky lanterns, floating lanterns and similar devices is prohibited.
(Ord. 09-14, passed 11-11-14)
Cross-reference:
   For definitions of construction debris, garbage, hazardous waste, man-made
waste and natural trash, see §
50.01
   Similar regulations, see International Fire Code §§ 307.4, exceptions 1 and
2, 307.4.3, 307.5, 308.1.4
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 61-62.2(I)(B), (C) and (E)
§ 90.04 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be installed and maintained in
all commercial and multi- family new construction, substantial improvement, or
and renovation where the renovation comprises a 50% or more increase in the
size of the existing structure. The total floor area of the building shall be
computed without regard to separation walls and floors of less than four hours
unpierced fire-resistive construction. This section does not apply to and does
not mandate the installation of automatic fire sprinkler systems in new single-
family homes or in single-family homes that are being renovated or rebuilt.
   (B)   The term AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM, as used herein, is defined as an
integrated system of underground and overhead piping, including a water supply
such as a gravity tank, fire pump, reservoir, pressure tank or connection by
underground piping to a public main, the system complying in all respects with
the requirements for the systems contained in appropriate standards issued by
the National Fire Protection Association. No automatic sprinkler system
required by this section shall be installed without prior approval by the
Resident Fire Marshal and Building Official of the plans for installation,
testing and maintenance of the system.
(Ord. 09-14, passed 11-11-14)
§ 90.05 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The maximum height of all buildings in the city shall be 50 feet above the
elevation of the centerline of the nearest public street existing as of July
25, 2006. (Ord. 09-14, passed 11-11-14)
Cross-reference:
   For height limits as part of dimensional standards, see §
165.02-03 and
Table 165.01
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Property Numbering
   
91.01   Uniform numbering system
   
91.02   Assignment of numbers
   
91.03   Location and description of numbers
   
91.04   Administration
PROPERTY NUMBERING
§ 91.01 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings as shown on
the maps identified by the title, “Uniform Numbering System Map,” dated June
1987, (hereinafter referred to as the “property number map”), which is filed in
the County Planning Department, is hereby adopted for use in the city. This map
and all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter.
(`95 Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 91.02 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   All properties or parcels of land within the unincorporated limits of
the city shall hereinafter be identified by references to the uniform numbering
system adopted herein. All existing numbers of property and buildings not now
in conformity with provisions of this chapter shall be changed to conform to
the system herein adopted.
   (B)   No building shall be assigned more than one number.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, when multiple
buildings are located on one or more lots and under the remaining provisions of
this chapter each building would be assigned a separate number designation, but
due to a limited amount of frontage, sufficient numbers are not available, then
all buildings at that location will be assigned the same number and each
building will carry a letter designation such as A, B, C, in addition to the
assigned number.
(`95 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 91.03 LOCATION AND DESCRIPTION OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   When each house or building has been assigned its respective number or
numbers, the owner, occupant or agent shall place or cause to be placed upon
each house or building controlled by him or her the number or numbers assigned
under the uniform system, as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The numbers shall be placed on existing buildings on or before
the effective date of this chapter, and within 20 days after the assigning of
the proper number in the case of numbers assigned after the effective date of
this chapter.
      (2)   The cost of the numbers shall be paid for by the property owner.
Residential numbers used shall not be less than three inches in height and
business numbers shall not be less than four inches in height. These numbers
shall be made of a durable and clearly visible material and shall be in a
contrasting color from the building.
   (C)   (1)   The numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on
or at the side of the proper door of each building so that the number can be
seen plainly from the street line.
      (2)   Whenever the primary entrance of a structure is not visible from
the street or is situated more than 50 feet from the street line, the number
must be placed near the walk, driveway or common entrance to the building and
upon a mail box, gate post, fence, post or other appropriate place so as to be
easily discernible from the street line.
      (3)   Numbers must be reflective or otherwise visible at night.
      (4)   Private walkovers leading to the beachfront houses must list the
house numbers so as to be visible from the beach.
(`95 Code, § 3-1-3) (Am. Ord. 17-18, passed 1-8-19)
§ 91.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of facilitating correct numbering, grid maps of all
streets, avenues and public ways within the city showing the proper numbers of
all houses or other buildings fronting upon all streets, avenues or public ways
shall be kept on file in the City Hall. These grid maps shall be open to
inspection of all persons during the normal office hours of the City Hall.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the city to inform any party applying therefor
of the number or numbers belonging to or embraced within the limits of any lot
or property as provided in this chapter. In case of conflict as to the proper
number to be assigned to any building, the city shall determine the number of
the building.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever any house, building or structure shall be erected or
located in the city after the establishment of the uniform system of numbering
provided for herein has been completed, in order to preserve the continuity and
uniformity of numbers of the houses, buildings and structures, it shall be the
duty of the owner to procure the correct number or numbers as designated by the
city for the property and to immediately fasten the number or numbers so
assigned upon the building as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for any house, building or
structure until the owner has procured from the city the official number of the
premises. Final approval of any structure erected, repaired, altered or
modified after the effective date of this chapter shall be withheld by the
Building Inspector until permanent and proper numbers have been affixed to the
structure.
(`95 Code, § 3-1-4)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS
Section
   
92.01   Park and Recreation Fund
Cross-reference:
   Beach Preservation and Construction Provisions, see
Chapter 151
   Parks and Recreation Board, see §
32.01
§ 92.01 PARK AND RECREATION FUND.
   There is hereby created a Park and Recreation Fund. All payments and
disbursements from the Fund as and when made shall be validated by the
countersignature of a member of Council designated by Council to countersign or
validate checks drawn from the Fund. There shall be a monthly report by the
Council member designated as countersigner of the Fund. This report shall be
made at a public meeting of Council.
(`95 Code, § 3-2-1)
CHAPTER 93: TREES AND CANOPY CONSERVATION
Section
Diseased Redbay Trees
   
93.01   Purpose and action
   
93.02   Removal of infected Redbay trees; containment
 
   
93.99   Penalty
DISEASED REDBAY TREES
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND ACTION.
   The Laurel Wilt Disease is a devastating disease of Redbay trees caused by a
fungus that is vectored by a wood-boring insect, the Redbay ambrosia beetle.
The beetle colonizes the sapwood of host trees, causing them to wilt and die.
The impact of this disease on mature Redbays has been severe. Populations of
these trees have been lost or greatly reduced. There is nothing that has been
found or currently on the radar that will eradicate the Laurel Wilt Disease.
Some of the experts have determined that moving the trees have spread the
disease even more and the best, safest, and most prudent course of action is to
let nature take its course. Based on this information, Folly Beach governing
body has determined the following to be best course of action.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-24-09; Am. Ord. 21-10, passed 9-28-10)
§ 93.02 REMOVAL OF INFECTED REDBAY TREES; CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   The only diseased Redbay tree(s) which shall be cut and removed within
the corporate boundaries of the City of Folly Beach are those trees which pose
a safety threat on life or property. The only person who can make the
determination is the Director of Public Works or his or her assignee.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any property owner whose property has Redbay trees which
appear to be diseased and a safety threat to life and/or property shall notify
the Director of Public Works and request an inspection of said tree. The
Director or his or her assignee shall go to the property and determine:
            1.   If the tree is infected with the Laurel Wilt Disease; and
            2.   If it is a safety hazard to people or property.
         (b)   If the Director determines that the tree meets both criteria;
then and only then shall the tree be cut and removed from the property. The
infected tree(s) shall be cut into three-foot manageable sections and placed in
the right-of-way. The Department of Public Works shall remove the pieces from
the right-of-way and take to the site designated by the Director of Public
Works. In the event the property owner of said private property requires a tree
specialist to remove the tree, cut it into three-foot manageable pieces, and
place it in the right-of-way, the cost of such work shall be the sole
responsibility of the property owner. Under no circumstances shall the cost for
any work done on private property on diseased Redbay trees be the
responsibility of the City of Folly Beach.
      (2)   Once the decision has been made that the Redbay tree(s) is diseased
and a threat to life or property and has to be cut, the Director shall serve
written notice to the property owner or his or her agent by Certified Mail -
Return Receipt Requested that:
         (a)   The Redbay tree(s) on the property located at
                                       is diseased and a safety threat to life
and/or property.
         (b)   Three qualified tree specialists and contact numbers are listed
should you need one.
         (c)   Infected tree(s) is to be cut into three-foot manageable pieces
and placed in the right- of-way for pickup by the Public Works Department; and
         (d)   The Director of Public Works is to be contacted by the property
owner or his or her agent within ten days of the receipt of this letter that
the trees have been cut and are ready for disposal; and FINALLY
         (e)   It will be stated in the letter the following: After this
notification, if trees are left uncut and said trees continue to be a safety
threat to life or property, any person injured or property damaged shall be the
sole responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   If diseased Redbay tree(s) is located on public property and is a
safety threat to life and/or property, Folly Beach Public Works employees who
have been trained shall immediately cut any trees 12 inches or less DBH
(diameter at breast height), with trees in excess of 12 inches DBH cut by an
expert trained in tree cutting. Cut trees shall be removed to the site
designated by Director of Public Works. The cost of any trees cut on public
property shall be the sole responsibility of the City of Folly Beach.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-24-09; Am. Ord. 21-10, passed 9-28-10)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
    Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
93.01 or
93.02 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 but in no circumstances
shall a person violating any provision of §§
93.01 or
93.02 be punishable by a fine less than $100. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 2-24-09; Am. Ord. 21-10, passed 9-28-10)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Owner to clean property
   
94.02   Removal of weeds, trash and the like
   
94.03   Determinations of certain property
   
94.04   Report of property; notice to owner; failure to comply
Cross-reference:
   Accumulations of litter, grass and the like; removal, see §
91.02
   Animals, see
Chapter 95
§ 94.01 OWNER TO CLEAN PROPERTY.
   It shall be the duty of every property owner within the city to clean, or
have cleaned, any property which may be in his or her name on the books of the
County Auditor.
(`95 Code, § 6-1-1)
§ 94.02 REMOVAL OF WEEDS, TRASH AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Cleaning a lot shall consist of cutting and removing therefrom all
high grass over 12 inches high, bushes or weeds, and also any trash and
automobiles that are a health and safety hazard, unused mechanical equipment,
or other debris of any description which may be on the property owner's land.
   (B)   Any automobile shall be deemed a health and safety hazard if the
automobile is left unused and is not in operating condition, or becomes a haven
for animals or vermin, or is over-grown with vegetation, or is a danger to
small children.
(`95 Code, § 6-1-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.03 DETERMINATION OF CERTAIN PROPERTY.
   It shall be in the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer to determine
what constitutes property in need of cleaning up.
(`95 Code, § 6-1-3) (Am. Ord. 25-11, passed 9-27-11)
§ 94.04 REPORT OF PROPERTY; NOTICE TO OWNER; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   (1)   Upon discovery by the Code Enforcement Officer of any property
which in his or her discretion he or she deems to be a detriment to the city,
either from a standpoint of health or appearance, it shall be his or her duty
to notify the property owner by certified letter that he or she is in violation
of this chapter and shall remedy the violation within a period not exceeding 15
days.
      (2)   Each day the violation continues after the 15 days shall constitute
a separate offense under this code.
   (B)   In the event the Code Enforcement Officer is unable to locate the
property owner, or the property owner fails to clean the property, the city
may, at the expiration of the 15-day period, furnish the necessary equipment
and labor for cleaning the property, and render a bill for the cost of same to
the owner of the property for the equipment and labor furnished.
   (C)   The charges shall constitute a lien against the property in the manner
provided by law.
(`95 Code, § 6-1-4) (Am. Ord. 25-11, passed 9-27-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Keeping certain animals prohibited; exceptions
   
95.03   Manner of keeping and maintaining animals
   
95.04   Cruelty prohibited
   
95.05   Bird sanctuary
   
95.06   (Reserved)
   
95.07   Certificate of vaccination required
   
95.08   Dogs, cats, and other domestic animals
   
95.09   Animal tags
   
95.10   Animal bites; procedure
   
95.11   Rabies vaccination
   
95.12   Animal care
   
95.13   Number of pets permitted
   
95.14   Adoption procedure
   
95.15   Restraint; disturbing the peace
   
95.16   Dangerous dogs
   
95.17   Trapping; steel traps prohibited
   
95.18   Removal of waste
Impoundment Procedures
   
95.30   Enforcement of rabies control; impoundment
   
95.31   Pets running and large; disposition
   
95.32   Animals without proper care; abandonment
   
95.33   Redemption
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.45   Inspections; right of entry
   
95.46   Public Safety Department; duties
   
95.47   Peace officers; badges
   
95.48   Notice of violation; punishment
Cross-reference:
   Loggerhead sea turtles, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. A situation in which an owner of an animal or pet does not
provide for humane disposal of the animal or pet, or transfer ownership to a
responsible person, or who does not provide or arrange for adequate food,
water, shelter and care.
   ANIMAL SERVICES OFFICERS. The persons designated by the Public Safety
Department as the enforcement officers of the provisions of this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the City Council for the purpose
of impoundment, care or destruction of animals or pets found in violation of
this chapter.
   ANIMALS. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, which shall be
held to include all brute creatures that are kept as pets.
   AT LARGE. An animal which is off the property and/or premises of the owner
or keeper and not under physical control by owner or keeper by means of a leash
or similar physical restraining device.
   CITY. The incorporated portions of the City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals;
      (2)   A dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal without
provocation;
      (3)   A dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dogfighting or a dog trained for dogfighting; and
      (4)   Trained guard or attack dogs.
   DIVISION. The animal services division of the Public Safety Department.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person who:
         (a)   Has a property right in a pet or an animal;
         (b)   Keeps or harbors a pet or an animal or who has it in his or her
care or acts as its custodian; or
         (c)   Permits a pet or animal to remain in or about any premises
occupied by him or her.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a person has a
property right in an animal if that person keeps or harbors a pet or animal or
has an animal in his or her care or acts as its custodian for 21 consecutive
days.
   PET. All mammals of the order carnivore, including dogs and cats.
   RESTRAINT. When a pet or animal is on the premises of its owner or keeper or
when a pet is accompanied by owner or keeper and is physically controlled by a
leash or similar physical device.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female dog or cat which has been operated on to prevent
conception.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously, intramuscularly
or otherwise, of anti-rabid vaccine as approved by the Department of
Agriculture/Veterinary Biologics Division, administered by a licensed
veterinarian.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-02)
§ 95.02 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or use within the city
limits any horse, mule, cow, genet, swine, domestic fowl, goat or cattle of any
description, except as provided for in division (B) below.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-2)
   (B)   (1)   Any resident or property owner who keeps an animal or animals
described in division (A) above on the effective date of this chapter shall be
notified by a registered letter of the provisions of this chapter, and the
property owner shall be given a period of 60 days to remove the animal or
animals so as to comply with the provisions of division (A) above. Failure to
comply with the provisions of division (A) above within 60 days from the
receipt of the notice shall constitute a violation of this chapter, and each
day thereafter shall constitute a separate offense. Any person who on the
effective date of this chapter is in violation of the chapter may apply to the
City Council for permission to keep the animal or animals.
      (2)   (a)   The application to City Council shall include information as
to the facilities for the proper and humane care and treatment of animal or
animals, type or shelter provided for the animal or animals, and method for
maintaining the area in a sanitary manner so as to remove health hazards.
         (b)   Council shall judge each separate application, provided,
however, that the stable area or primary living area of the animal or animals
is not within 105 feet of any building owned or occupied by persons other than
the owner of the animal or animals.
         (c)   The permit may, at any time, be revoked by Council, upon 30 days
notice, if the Council determines, after providing the owner an opportunity for
a hearing, that the conditions on which the permit was issued has been
violated.
      (3)   It is the purpose of this section that none of the animals
described in division (A) above shall be henceforth brought into the city or
kept or maintained within the city, except as provided in this section.
      (4)   It is the further intent of the City Council that any existing use
of land for the purpose of keeping the animals within city limits shall be
discontinued upon their death.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 02-20, passed 3-10-20)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.03 MANNER OF KEEPING AND MAINTAINING ANIMALS.
   All animals shall be kept and maintained in a manner as to not injure,
interfere with or disturb the property, peace, comfort, health, safety or
general welfare of any person within the city. No animal shall be kept confined
or tied by rope, chain or wire that is less than 12 feet in length and must
allow pet access to shelter, food and water without becoming entangled.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Protection of loggerhead sea turtles, see §§
151.45 through
151.49
§ 95.04 CRUELTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to override, overdrive, overload,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance or shelter, cruelly beat,
mutilate or cruelly kill an animal or cause, procure or allow the same to be
done, or cause, encourage or allow any animal to attack, fight or harm an
animal.
   (B)   Any person, intentionally, knowingly or recklessly, who leaves an
animal unattended and confined in a vehicle whereby physical injury or death of
said animal is likely to result shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 7-29-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.05 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   Certain territory embraced within the city or the police jurisdiction
thereof, is hereby declared to be a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to kill, maim or injure any wild or migratory
bird or to destroy or to rob or molest eggs or nests in breeding places of any
birds.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.06 (RESERVED).
§ 95.07 CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Before issuing a license, as required in §
95.09, the animal services officer shall require the applicant to file with her
or him a certificate in writing that the dog designated in the permit has a
current rabies vaccination.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-8) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-02; Am. Ord. 27-20, passed 1-12-21)
§ 95.08 DOGS, CATS AND OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   An owner or person having control of any dog, cat, or other domestic
animal shall not permit the animal to be upon the public beach at any time
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from May 1 through September 30
of each year.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog, cat or other domestic animal to be
at large in the city unless it has a chain, substantial rope, leash or leather
thong securely attached to its collar or harness, with the exception of
individuals who are members in good standing of the Folly Island Dog Owners
(FIDO) Club along with special tags, training, and additional requirements as
assigned by Folly Public Safety, who may allow their dogs off leash on the
beach from sunrise until sunset between October 1 and April 30 and on the beach
between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. during the months of September and May.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of any owner, possessor or person who harbors or
keeps any animal to confine the animal within the limits of his or her
premises, except as above stated.
   (D)   (1)   The city is a bird sanctuary; and sometimes certain areas have
to be specifically designated as protected areas for many reasons. The property
located behind the gate on the east end of Folly Beach and better known as the
Old Coast Guard Base is presently zoned N-1, Nature Conservancy. As of the date
of the adoption of this section, the property is also designated a protected
area for birdlife in general and particularly for all shorebirds.
      (2)   Therefore, there shall be no domestic animals whatsoever allowed to
trespass on any dunes and/or vegetation beyond the last eastern most point of
the island on which is located a constructed barrier, as well as a manmade rock
revetment barrier.
      (3)   However, domestic animals, subject to all existing ordinances,
shall be allowed on the active beach, between the high and low water line up to
but not beyond the point of the last easternmost part of the island on which is
located a constructive barrier and a manmade rock revetment.
   (E)   The minimum fine upon violation and conviction of this section shall
be not less than $25.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-10) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 16-11, passed 5-24-11; Am. Ord. 20-11, passed 6-14-11; Am. Ord.
19-12, passed 7-10-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.09 ANIMAL TAGS.
   (A)   The Department of Public Safety shall as needed provide enough metal
tags, suitable for animals to be fastened to the animal’s collar. This tag
shall be provided at no charge to the person holding, keeping or harboring the
animal, upon application to the city. Tags shall be valid for 12 months from
the date of issuance and must be renewed annually. The name and address of the
person to whom the tag has been issued shall be kept on file in the Department
of Public Safety for the purpose of identification in case the tag should be at
any time lost, stolen or otherwise misappropriated. It is further provided that
this section shall not apply to persons living in the city temporarily for a
period of less than 30 days; however, the person is not relieved of the
responsibility under the other sections of this chapter.
   (B)   If the license tag is lost, a new tag may be issued at no charge.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-9) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-02; Am. Ord. 19-20, passed 9-22-20; Am. Ord.
23-20, passed 11-10-20; Am. Ord. 27-20, passed 1-12-21)
§ 95.10 ANIMAL BITES; PROCEDURE.
   Any animal who bites any person within the city limits shall be confined for
a period of not less than ten days. This section applies to both vaccinated and
unvaccinated animals. It shall be at the discretion of the animal services
officer and/or the Chief of Police whether the animal shall be confined upon
the owner's premises or placed in a private or county pound. If deemed
necessary to place the animal in a private or county pound, all costs shall be
the responsibility of the owner of the animal.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-11) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-02)
§ 95.11 RABIES VACCINATION.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any pet within the city unless the pet
has been vaccinated against rabies as provided herein.
   (A)   Unless the pet has received (as evidenced by certificate) a
vaccination from a licensed graduate veterinarian using a vaccine which is good
for a period of one year, provided the vaccine has been approved with the
longer period of time specified by the State Department of Health and
Environmental Control after consultation with the executive committee of the
Association of Veterinarians.
   (B)   A State Department of Health and Environmental Control certificate of
pet rabies vaccination will be issued by a licensed graduate veterinarian for
each pet, stating the name and address of the owner, the name, breed, color and
markings, age, sex of animal and the veterinary or pharma-ceutical control
number of the vaccination.
   (C)   Coincident with the issuance of the certificate, the licensed graduate
veterinarian shall also furnish a serially numbered metal tag bearing the same
number and year as is on the certificate. The metal license tag shall bear the
name of the veterinarian and shall at all times be attached to a collar or
harness worn by the pet for which the certificate and tag have been issued.
Tags must be of the same color and shape when issued in offices of
veterinarians.
   (D)   The owner shall have a valid certificate of rabies vaccination readily
available at all times for inspection by the animal services officer or the
Public Safety Department designee of health officials.
   (E)   In the event that a rabies tag is lost, the owner shall obtain a
duplicate tag within seven working days.
   (F)   A certificate of rabies vaccination issued by a licensed veterinarian
from another state will be accepted as valid evidence provided it is less than
a year from date of issue.
   (G)   Rabies inoculation must be given by age four months to all cats and
dogs.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-13) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-02)
§ 95.12 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   No person or those owning or having possession, charge, custody or
control of any animal shall cause or fail to provide the animal with sufficient
good and wholesome food, clean water, proper shelter, care and veterinary
treatment when needed.
   (B)   An animal services officer shall cause a citation to be issued if
there is probable cause to believe that a violation of any of the following
provisions of this section has been violated:
      (1)   Abandon an animal, or cause an animal to be abandoned, including
abandoning any dog, cat or any other domesticated animal in any public place
including the rights-of-way of any public highway, road, street or on the
property of another;
      (2)   Knowingly expose an animal to any poisonous substance, whether
mixed with food or not, so that the same shall be in a manner to be eaten by an
animal, fish, bird, fowl or reptile, provided that it shall not be unlawful for
a person to expose on his or her property common rat poison mixed only with
vegetable substances;
      (3)   Beat excessively or cruelly, ill treat, torment, torture, overload,
overwork or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any fight
or other combat between animals or animals and humans;
      (4)   Who as the operator of a vehicle strikes an animal, fails to stop
and render assistance as may be possible and shall immediately report the
injury or death to the appropriate authorities; (In the event the owner cannot
be ascertained or found, the operator shall at once report the accident to the
animal services office or police.)
      (5)   Give away any live animal, fish, bird, fowl or reptile as a prize
for or as an inducement to enter any contest, game or other competition, or as
an inducement to enter a place of amusement or offer the species as an
incentive to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for the
purpose of attracting trade;
      (6)   In no event shall any person, except a licensed veterinarian crop,
notch or split an animal's ears or tail;
      (7)   Failure to provide medical treatment or denial of medical treatment
for any diseased, sick or injured animal;
      (8)   Failure or denial of necessary sustenance, such as food of adequate
amounts to sustain flesh or permit normal growth, inadequate amount of clean
water or water that is sour, filthy or spoiled;
      (9)   Failure to remove excrement and maintaining shelter of confinement
area in a clean, odor free condition and free of ticks, fleas, flies or
mosquitoes;
      (10)   Tease, bait or in any manner molest any animal not belonging to
him or her or legally under his or her control;
      (11)   Failure or denial to provide shelter for any animal, fish, bird,
fowl or reptile of any kind in any manner without shading same from the sun,
any direct light, heat or cold and providing adequate ventilation for their
use; and
      (12)   Any person or owner who, through negligence, lets his or her
animals run free, break loose or escape in any manner and who has been
previously warned by animal services of the same shall be guilty of a violation
of this section.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-18) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.13 NUMBER OF PETS PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own more than two unspayed male or female cats
and two unspayed female dogs over the age of six months.
   (B)   Anyone violating division (A) above shall:
      (1)   Have the excess animals spayed or neutered; or
      (2)   Have the animal given to a new home.
   (C)   If corrective action is not taken, after notice from the animal
services officer, the animal services officer will remove the excess animals to
the SPCA.
   (D)   Exemption to this section shall be granted upon approval by the animal
services officer and at the animal services officer's discretion.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-19) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.14 ADOPTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter may, at the
end of the legal detention periods, have its title transferred to the county
animal shelter or SPCA or be adopted by a person deemed to be a responsible and
suitable owner, who will agree to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
All required fees must be paid at the time of adoption.
   (B)   No animal over three months of age shall be released or adopted until
prepayment is made for vaccination against rabies.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-20) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99)
§ 95.15 RESTRAINT; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of an animal to permit
same to run at large at any time upon streets or highways or properties other
than his or her own property within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep a dangerous dog in any manner not allowed
under S.C. Code §§ 47-3-710 et seq.
   (C)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in a manner that the female dog or cat cannot come in contact
with another animal except for planned breeding.
   (D)   No owner of any pet shall allow his or her pet by reason of frequent
or continual noise to disturb the peace of neighbors.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-21) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.16 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   No person owning or harboring or having the care or the custody of a
dangerous dog may permit the dog to go “unconfined,” as the term is used in
this section, if the dog is not securely confined indoors or confined in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or a dog-run area upon the person's premises.
The pen or dog-run area also must have either sides six feet high or a secure
top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, all sides must
be embedded into the ground at a depth of no less than one foot. However, the
provisions of this section shall not apply to any dog that is owned by a
licensed security company and is on patrol in a confined area.
   (B)   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a dangerous dog
may permit the dog to go beyond his or her premises unless the dog is securely
muzzled and restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile strength of 300
pounds and not exceeding three feet in length.
   (C)   (1)   No person may own or harbor a dog for the purpose of dogfighting
or train, torment, badger, bait or use a dog for the purpose of causing or
encouraging the dog to unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic
animals.
      (2)   No person may possess with intent to sell, offer for sale, breed or
buy or attempt to buy a dangerous dog.
   (D)   (1)   In the event a law enforcement agent has probable cause to
believe that a dangerous dog is being harbored or cared for in violation of
this section, he or she may petition the City Judge having jurisdiction to
order the seizure and impoundment of the dangerous dog while the trial is
pending.
      (2)   In the event a law enforcement agent has probable cause to believe
that a dangerous dog is being harbored or housed in violation of this section,
he or she may with proper court petition seize and impound the dangerous dog
while the trial is pending.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, for a first offense, must be fined not more than $200 and/or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
      (2)   A dangerous dog which attacks a human being or another domestic
animal may be ordered destroyed when in the Court's judgement the dangerous dog
represents a continuing threat of serious harm to human beings or other
domestic animals.
      (3)   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses for boarding and
veterinary expenses necessitated by the seizure of any dog for the protection
of the public or other expenses as may be required for the destruction of the
dog. Furthermore, anyone found guilty of violating this section shall pay any
medical expenses incurred by the victim as a result of the attack by a
dangerous dog.
   (F)   (1)   A person is lawfully upon the premises of the owner within the
meaning of this section when he or she is on the premises in the performance of
any duty imposed upon him or her by the laws of this state, by the laws or
postal regulations of the United States, when he or she is on the premises upon
invitation, expressed or implied, of the owner, or when he or she is in the
performance of a duty relative to public safety, which includes police
officers, firefighters or other authorized personnel. A person has the right to
ingress and to egress from the premises for any purpose connected with the
performance of the public safety duty.
      (2)   A person who is lawfully on the owner's premises and who is
attacked by a dangerous dog or witnesses the attack may use reasonable force to
repel the attack. A person is not liable in damages or otherwise for action to
repel or any action taken to restrain or control a dog from an unprovoked
attack.
      (3)   The Chief of Police may cause any dangerous animal to be slain or
removed from the city.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-22) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.17 TRAPPING; STEEL TRAPS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to trap any form of wildlife
without the written consent of the animal services officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any type of steel traps,
snares or other trapping devices which are known to cause bodily injury to
animals.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-25) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.18 REMOVAL OF WASTE.
   The owner or person responsible for any animal on the streets, the beach or
any public property shall be responsible for removing any waste deposited.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-27) (Ord. 5-93, passed 6-1-93)
Cross-reference:
   Beach Preservation and Construction Provisions, see
Chapter 151
IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES
§ 95.30 ENFORCEMENT OF RABIES CONTROL; IMPOUNDMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter relating to control of rabies and the
provisions of S.C. Code §§ 47-5-10 et seq., the Rabies Control Act, shall be
enforced by animal services officers.
   (A)   Animals found running at large in violation of S.C. Code § 47-5-60
(having no valid rabies inoculation tag) shall be impounded by animal services
officer and transferred to SPCA.
   (B)   Animals impounded under the provisions of (the Rabies Control Act),
S.C. Code §§ 47-5-10 et seq. and division (A) of this section may be redeemed
only as follows:
      (1)   Must show proof of current payment for rabies inoculation; and
      (2)   Payment for daily boarding cost assessed by animal shelter and $15
pickup fee.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-14) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
§ 95.31 PETS RUNNING AT LARGE; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Any animal or dangerous animal running at large shall be impounded by
the animal services officer or any of the persons empowered to enforce this
chapter and held at the city or transported to the county animal shelter and
there impounded and confined until redeemed or disposed of as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   Immediately after impounding any animal, the animal services officer
shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owner in writing or by telephone
of its impoundment and to inform the owner of the conditions whereby he or she
can regain custody.
   (C)   Animals not claimed by their owners after notification or attempted
notification or before the expiration of three days shall become the property
of the animal shelter and shall be euthanized in a manner prescribed in S.C.
Code §§ 47-3-410 et seq., or placed for adoption through an approved animal
shelter or private humane association.
   (D)   Any animal determined by the animal services officer to be abandoned
shall be impounded by the animal services officer, and transferred to an
approved animal shelter or private humane association.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-15) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
§ 95.32 ANIMALS WITHOUT PROPER CARE; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the animal services officer or public safety officer finds
that any animal is or will be without proper care because of injury, illness,
incarceration or other involuntary absence of the person responsible for the
care of the animal, they may impound the animal and place it with the SPCA or
other approved private humane organization until reclaimed by its owner. The
owner must pay the fees in the same manner as any other owner would redeem an
impounded animal prior to the release.
   (B)   Any animal which has been impounded and not reclaimed for ten days
after the circumstances causing the impounding have ceased to exist may be
adopted out immediately after the expiration of ten days from the time of
impounding without the posting of any notice whatsoever.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-17) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-02)
§ 95.33 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of an animal
impounded under § 95.09 upon compliance with the rabies vaccination
requirement, proper identification and the payment of redemption fees herein
set forth.
   (B)   The owner of an impounded animal must apply for the redemption of this
animal. The animal may not be released unless authorized by the animal services
officer or public safety officer with assurance from the owner that proper care
or custody will be maintained. The owner can appeal to the City Recorder, the
procedure of the animal services officer.
   (C)   The fees set forth herein shall be collected in addition to any fines
imposed by the City Recorder, from the owner by the animal services officer and
turned over to the city's funds. An initial pickup fee of $25 will be charged
for impoundment, plus the additional sum of $5 will be charged for each day a
cat is kept and $10 will be charged for each day a dog is kept.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to release from impoundment
without proper authority any animal or to resist animal services officers
engaged in the impoundment of any animal.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-16) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.45 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever it is necessary to conduct an investigation to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or other applicable
law, or whenever the animal services officer or any authorized member of the
Department or a recognized humane society or SPCA or a volunteer animal
services officer, appointed by the Director of Public Safety, also working
under the Public Safety Department has probable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of
this chapter or other applicable law in an emergency situation the animal
services officer or any police officer is hereby empowered to enter the
property at any reasonable time and to inspect the same and perform any duty
imposed upon the animal services officer or any police officer by this chapter
or other applicable laws; if not an emergency situation, a search warrant must
be obtained.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-12) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
§ 95.46 PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Public Safety Department Division of animal services shall be charged
with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Cooperating with the health officers of the various state government
units and assisting in the enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to
the control of animals, and especially with regard to the vaccination of dogs
and cats against rabies;
   (B)   Investigating all complaints with regard to animals covered by this
chapter;
   (C)   Enforcing within the city all of the state laws, ordinances enacted by
the city, and contracts entered into by the city for the care, control and
custody of animals covered by this chapter;
   (D)   Supervising and being in charge of animals impounded in the holding
facility, until the time as ownership of the animals is given to the
appropriate animal shelter; and
   (E)   Enforcing provisions of state law regarding dangerous dogs, S.C. Code
§§ 47-3-710 et seq.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-23) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
§ 95.47 PEACE OFFICERS; BADGES.
   Each person while performing his or her respective duties shall wear a
uniform and a metallic badge of a size and design to be determined by the Chief
of Police.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-24) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99)
§ 95.48 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; PUNISHMENT.
   In discharging their duties under this chapter, the animal services officer
and police officers are hereby empowered to issue citation to any person if
there is probable cause to believe that he or she has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter. A citation so issued may be delivered in person to
the alleged violator by the animal services officer or any member of the Police
Department or they may be mailed, certified, return receipt requested to the
person so charged, if he or she cannot be readily found. Any notice or citation
so delivered or mailed shall direct the alleged violator to appear at the
Municipal Court on a specific day and hour named in the notice, or pay the fine
in lieu of appearing in court.
(`95 Code, § 6-3-26) (Ord. 89-2, passed 11-17-89; Am. Ord. 07-99, passed 2-16-
99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed 3-26-2002)
CHAPTER 96: EQUAL PRIVILEGES TO PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Title
   
96.02   Declaration of policy
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Exemption from public accommodation provisions
   
96.05   Purpose of law; construction; effect
   
96.06   Prohibition of discrimination
   
96.07   Penalties; exclusive remedy
§ 96.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the city Public
Accommodations Ordinance.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-12)
§ 96.02 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city that no person shall be discriminated against
in the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges,
advantages, and accommodations of any place of public accommodation on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, familial status,
disability, or sexual orientation.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-12)
§ 96.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial, or any
other
act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a person
or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex,
familial status, disability, or sexual orientation in the aiding, abetting,
inciting, coercing, or compelling thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual or corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, or any other group acting as a unit.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any place which serves the public and
requires a license or permit issued by the state, its agencies, or the city to
operate, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Any inn, hotel, motel, or other establishment which provides
lodging to transient guests.
      (2)   Any restaurant, cafeteria, lunchroom, lunch counter, soda fountain,
or other facility principally engaged in selling food for consumption on the
premises, including, but not limited to, any such facility located on the
premises of any retail establishment, or any gasoline station;
      (3)   Any medical facility which provides overnight accommodations;
      (4)   Any retail or wholesale establishment;
      (5)   Any motion picture house, theater, concert hall, billiard parlor,
saloon, barroom, golf course, sports arena, stadium, or other place of
amusement, exhibition, recreation, or entertainment; and
      (6)   Any establishment which is physically located within the premises
of any establishment otherwise covered by this section, or within the premises
of which is physically located any such covered establishment, and which holds
itself out as serving patrons of such covered establishment.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-12)
§ 96.04 EXEMPTION FROM PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to a private club or other
establishment not in fact open to the general public, unless the establishment
is being used by a third party.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-12)
§ 96.05 PURPOSE OF LAW; CONSTRUCTION; EFFECT.
   The general purpose of this chapter is to safeguard all individuals within
the city from discrimination in the equal enjoyment and privileges to public
accommodations because of race, color, religion, age, national origin, sex,
familial status, disability, or sexual orientation; thereby to protect their
interest in personal dignity and freedom from humiliation; to secure the city
against domestic strife and unrest which would menace its democratic
institutions; to preserve general welfare; and to further the interests,
rights, and privileges of individuals within the city.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-12)
§ 96.06 PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person serving the public as defined in §
96.03 to discriminate because of race, color, religion, age, national origin,
sex, familial status, disability, or sexual orientation.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-12) Penalty, see §
96.07
§ 96.07 PENALTIES; EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable
as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   There is no private right of action that is created by this section or
money damages available to any person based on this section.
(Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
110.   STANDARDIZED BUSINESS LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE RATE SCHEDULE
         
APPENDIX B: BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   SINGLE-USE PLASTIC BAGS, POLYSTYRENE COOLERS, CONTAINERS AND CUPS
      
113.   HOTELS AND MOTELS
      
114.   RESERVED
      
115.   VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION SERVICE
      
116.   NON-CONSENSUAL TOWING OF VEHICLES
      
117.   SHORT TERM RENTALS
      
118.   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 110: STANDARDIZED BUSINESS LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Purpose and duration
   
110.04   Business license tax, refund
   
110.05   Registration required
   
110.06   Deductions, exemptions and charitable organizations
   
110.07   False application unlawful
   
110.08   Display and transfer
   
110.09   Administration of chapter
   
110.10   Inspection and audits
   
110.11   Assessments, payment under protest, appeal
   
110.12   Delinquent license taxes, partial payment
   
110.13   Notices
   
110.14   Denial of license
   
110.15   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.16   Notice of denial or suspension and appeals to Council or its designee
   
110.17   Consent, franchise or license required for use of streets
   
110.18   Confidentiality
   
110.19   Classification and rates
 
   
110.99    Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Business license rate schedule
   
Appendix B:   Business license class schedule by NAICS code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession, or activity engaged in/with the object of gain, benefit
or advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of The City of Folly Beach,
South Carolina, is required to pay an annual license tax for the privilege of
doing business and obtain a business license as herein provided.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 18-16, passed 7- 12-16; Am. Ord. 36-21,
passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meaning ascribed herein:
   BUSINESS. Any business, calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged
in/with the object of gain, benefit or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. Section
501(c)(3), (4), (6), (7),
(8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose that does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer, officer,
director, trustee or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION.  That division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of The City of Folly Beach.
   DOMICILE. A principal place from which the trade or business of a licensee
is conducted, directed, or managed. For purposes of this chapter a licensee may
be deemed to have more than one DOMICILE.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued, for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a domicile within
the municipality, business done within the municipality shall include all gross
receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If the licensee does
not have a domicile within the municipality, business done within the
municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received or accrued
within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a business license
tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee's gross income for the
purpose of computing the tax within the municipality must be reduced by the
amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or municipality and
fully reported to the municipality. GROSS INCOME for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds, or funds that are the property of a third party. The value of bartered
goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in GROSS INCOME. The gross
receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by
inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the
South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina Department of
Insurance, or other government agencies. In calculating GROSS INCOME for
certain businesses, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   GROSS INCOME for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered GROSS INCOME.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code § 38-7-20, GROSS
INCOME for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   GROSS INCOME for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of: (i) gross
revenues or receipts received or accrued from business done at the location;
(ii) the amount of income allocated and apportioned to that location by the
business for purposes of the business's state income tax return; or (iii) the
amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost center of the
business. Licensees reporting gross income under this provision shall have the
burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by satisfactory
records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting a
manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL.  A person designated to administer this chapter.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary License Official, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate License Officials to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under Article 20,
Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38, of the South Carolina
Code.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   NAICS. The North American Industry Classification System for the United
States published under the auspices of the Federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company, cooperative non-profit membership, corporation,
joint venture, association, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
holding company, or other group  or combination acting as a unit, in the
singular or plural, and the agent or employee having charge or control of a
business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 18-16, passed 7- 12-16; Am. Ord. 36-21,
passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this chapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto,
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the General Fund through a privilege
tax. The 2021 license year shall extend to end on April 30, 2022. Thereafter,
the license periods shall be established as follows. Except as set forth below
for business licenses issued to contractors with respect to specific
construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued for the 12-month
period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for a construction
contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to expire at the
completion of the construction project; provided, any such business license may
require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during the continuation of the
construction project, a statement of compliance, including but not limited to a
revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any revised estimate of the
final value of such project exceeds the amount for which the business license
was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a license fee at the then-
prevailing rate on the excess amount. The provisions of this chapter and the
rates herein shall remain in effect from year to year as amended by the
Council.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.04 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX, REFUND.
   (A)   The required business license tax shall be paid for each business
subject hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
due date of the 30th day of April in each year, except for those businesses in
Rate Class 8 for which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall
be subject to penalties as set forth in §
110.99 hereof, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1
without penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee's gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee's 12-month fiscal year preceding the due date, or on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one year. The business license tax for a new business must be
computed on the estimated probable gross income for the balance of the license
year. A business license related to construction contract projects may be
issued on a per-project basis, at the option of the taxpayer. No refund shall
be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before the June 1 immediately following the April
30 on which the payment was due, and must be supported by adequate
documentation supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or
deny the refund request, and if approved, shall issue the refund to the
business within 30 days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.05 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent, or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the
annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of
the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol, beer, or
wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of the
business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this chapter by the license official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property, and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation, and
payment of business license taxes through the business license tax portal
hosted and managed by the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office,
subject to the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal
availability or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from
existing business license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 36-21,
passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.06 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS, AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the chapter by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The License Official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this chapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if: (1) any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization as
defined in this chapter; or (2) any net proceeds of operation, after necessary
expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose
as defined in this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond
fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee, or
person with ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a
necessary expense of operation.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.07 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license, or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.08 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the License Official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his or her person or in a vehicle used in the
business readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the
municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the License Official within
ten days after removal of the business to a new location and the license will
be valid at the new address upon written notification by the License Official
and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the approval
of the License Official for a change of address shall invalidate the license
and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a license. A
business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of controlling
interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and the
establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on old
business income.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 02-16, passed 2- 9-16; Am. Ord. 36-21,
passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The License Official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect business license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations
and audits to ensure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the Municipal Attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.10 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
License Official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections and to examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful
for any such person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
business license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided
herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of business license tax
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The License Official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with the chapter. Financial
information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed public
records, and the License Official shall not release the amount of business
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.11 ASSESSMENTS, PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST, APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest, and appeals of assessment shall
be allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing an assessment, the License Official
may examine such records of the business or any other available records as may
be appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical surveys as the
License Official may deem appropriate to assess a business license tax and
penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The License Official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for adjustment
of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided that for
particular types of business licenses, including without limitation for
business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under
Article 20, Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38, of the South
Carolina Code, the municipality, by separate ordinance, may establish a
different procedure and may delegate one or more rights, duties, and functions
hereunder to the Municipal Association of South Carolina.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 02-18, passed 3-13-18; Am. Ord. 36-21,
passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.12 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES, PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct business license
tax, the License Official shall impose and collect a late penalty of 5% of the
unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid, not
to exceed 100% of original license fee. Penalties shall not be waived. If any
business license tax remains unpaid for 60 days after its due date, the License
Official shall report it to the Municipal Attorney for appropriate legal
action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the License Official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.13 NOTICES.
   The License Official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.14 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The License Official may deny a license to an applicant when the
License Official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation,
false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has been convicted within the previous ten years of an offense
under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving dishonest
conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a business, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
      (6)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
      (7)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied,
suspended, or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the License Official shall be subject to appeal as
herein provided. Denial shall be written in compliance with §
110.16.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 18-16, passed 7- 12-16; Am Ord. 26-17,
passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 02-18, passed 3-13-18; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21;
Am. Ord. 004-23, passed 4-11-23)
§ 110.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license may be suspended or revoked when the License Official
determines:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud,
misrepresentation, a false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression
of a material fact in the license application;
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any
tax or fee.
   (B)   The License Official may give written notice to the licensee or the
person in control of the business within the municipality by personal service
or mail that the license is suspended pending a single hearing before Council
or its designee for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should be
upheld and the license should be revoked in compliance with §
110.16. A decision of the License Official to suspend a license shall be
subject to appeal as herein provided. If the suspension is not appealed within
30 days of receipt of notice of suspension, then the license is deemed revoked.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 18-16, passed 7-12-16; Am Ord. 26-17,
passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 02-18, passed 3-13-18; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21;
Am. Ord. 004-23, passed 4-11-23)
§ 110.16 NOTICE OF DENIAL OR SUSPENSION AND APPEALS TO COUNCIL OR ITS DESIGNEE.
   (A)   Written notice of the denial or suspension of a license shall be
provided to the applicant or licensee and shall contain:
      (1)   A statement of the reasons for the denial or suspension; and
      (2)   A copy of the applicable provisions of this chapter and any other
ordinances relevant to the proposed denial or suspension; and
      (3)   Notice that the applicant or licensee may appeal by serving a
notice of appeal on the Business License Official within 30 days and in
accordance with the provisions of this section; and
      (4)   Notice to the applicant or licensee that failure to serve notice of
appeal within 30 days shall result in denial or revocation as applicable.
         (a)   Where an application for a new business has been denied and an
appeal has been timely filed, notice shall be given that no business operations
may commence until a business license is issued after a successful appeal.
         (b)   Where an application for a license for a previously licensed
business has been denied or a license for a previously licensed business has
been suspended and an appeal has been timely filed, notice shall be given that
all business operations may continue until the appeal is denied by written
order.
   (B)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
110.11 hereof, which are governed by S.C. Code § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved
by a determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the License Official may appeal the decision to the Council or its
designee by written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the
License Official within 30 days after service by mail or personal service of
the notice of determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation.
      (1)   A new business that has not been previously licensed, for which an
application has been denied and an appeal has been timely filed, may not
initiate business operations until a business license is issued after a
successful appeal.
      (2)   A previously licensed business, with ongoing operations, for which
an application for a license has been denied or notice of suspension given for
a license and an appeal has been timely filed, may continue business operations
until the appeal is denied by written order.
   (C)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial, suspension, or other
determination of the License Official shall be held by the Council or its
designee within 30 days after receipt of a request for appeal.
      (1)   The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular or
special meeting of the Council, or, if by designee of the Council, at a hearing
to be scheduled by the designee.
         (a)   The hearing may be continued to another date by agreement of all
parties.
         (b)   The Council or its designee may hold a pre-trial conference and
ask that the parties exchange exhibits and witness lists.
         (c)   Additional issues not referenced in the notice of denial or
suspension and the notice of appeal may not be raised at the hearing unless
approved by the Council or its delegates.
         (d)   All parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel,
to present testimony and evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses.
         (e)   The proceedings shall be recorded and transcribed at the expense
of the party so requesting.
         (f)   The rules of evidence and procedure prescribed by Council or its
designee shall govern the hearing. Hearsay, including affidavits, are allowed
to be presented by either party.
      (2)   Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members
present, or the designee of Council if the hearing is held by the designee,
shall render a written decision based on findings of fact and conclusions on
application of the standards herein. The written decision shall be issued
within 30 days of the hearing or final briefings if such is requested. The
written decision shall be served, by personal service or by mail, upon all
parties or their representatives and shall constitute the final decision of the
municipality.
   (D)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council or its designee does not
effectuate a stay of that decision. The decision of the Council or its designee
shall be binding and enforceable unless overturned by an applicable appellate
court after a due and timely appeal.
   (E)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under Article 20, Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38,
of the South Carolina Code, the municipality may establish a different
procedure by ordinance.
(Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 004-23, passed 4-11-23)
§ 110.17 CONSENT, FRANCHISE, OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain,
or operate in, on, above, or under any street or public place under control of
the municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure, or facility for
utilities, communications, cablevision, or other purposes without a consent
agreement or franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that
prescribes the term, fees, and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement, and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.18 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 18-16, passed 7- 12-16; Am. Ord. 36-21,
passed 12-14-21)
§ 110.19 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
chapter shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule. Classes 1 through 8 in Appendix B, the “Business License Class
Schedule,” are hereby amended and restated as set forth as Appendix A.
   (B)   The current business license class schedule is attached hereto as
Appendix B. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd year, the
municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized business
license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of South
Carolina and adopted by the Director of the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal
Affairs Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised business license
class schedule shall then be appended to this chapter as a replacement Appendix
B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, sub-sector, group, or industry. The business license class
schedule (Appendix B) is a tool for classification and not a limitation on
businesses subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most
recent version of the business license class schedule adopted by the Council
that most specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the
business. The License Official shall have the authority to make the
determination of the classification most specifically applicable to a subject
business.
   (D)   A copy of the class schedule and rate schedule shall be filed in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 020-23, passed 11-28-23)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
    Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days, or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs provided for
in this chapter.
(Ord. 34-06, passed 9-26-06; Am. Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE RATE SCHEDULE
Rate Class Income: $0 - $2,000.00 Income over $2,000.00
           Base Rate              Rate per $1,000.00 or Fraction Thereof
Rate Class Income: $0 - $2,000.00 Income over $2,000.00
           Base Rate              Rate per $1,000.00 or Fraction Thereof
1          $35.00                 $2.00
2          $40.00                 $2.25
3          $45.00                 $2.50
4          $50.00                 $2.75
5          $55.00                 $3.00
6          $60.00                 $3.25
7          $65.00                 $3.50
8.1        $50.00                 $1.50
8.2        Set by state statute
8.3        MASC Telecommunications
8.4        MASC Insurance
8.51       $12.50 + $12.50 per machine
8.52       $12.50 + $180.00 per machine
8.6        Applicable class rate + $5.00 or $12.50 per table
9.1        $24.00                 $12.00
9.2        $200.00                $3.00
9.3        $300.00                $2.25
9.4        $45.00                 $2.75
9.5        $245.00                $2.75
 
NON-RESIDENT RATES
Unless otherwise specifically provided, all taxes and rates shall be doubled
for nonresidents and itinerants having no fixed principal place of business
within the municipality.
DECLINING RATES
Declining rates apply in all classes for gross income in excess of $1,000,000,
unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter.
Gross Income      Percent of Class Rate for Each
in $ Millions         Additional $1,000.00
   0-1         100%
   1 - 2         90%
   2 - 3         80%
   3 - 4         70%
   over 4         60%
CLASS 8 RATES
Each NAICS number designates a separate subclassification. The businesses in
this section are treated as separate and individual subclasses due to
provisions of state law, regulatory requirements, service burdens, tax
equalization considerations, and other factors that are deemed sufficient to
require individually determined rates. In accordance with state law, the
municipality also may provide for reasonable subclassifications for rates,
described by an NAICS sector, subsector, or industry, that are based on
particularized considerations as needed for economic stimulus or for the
enhanced or disproportionate demands on municipal services or infrastructure.
Non-resident rates do not apply except where indicated.
8.1   NAICS 230000 - Contractors, Construction, All Types [Non-resident rates
apply].
Resident rates, for contractors having a permanent place of business within the
municipality:
   Minimum on first $2,000   $50.00 PLUS
   Each additional 1,000   $1.50
Non-resident rates apply to contractors that do not have a permanent place of
business within the municipality. A trailer at the construction site or
structure in which the contractor temporarily resides is not a permanent place
of business under this chapter.
No contractor shall be issued a business license until all state and municipal
qualification examination and trade license requirements have been met. Each
contractor shall post a sign in plain view on each job identifying the
contractor with the job.
Sub-contractors shall be licensed on the same basis as general or prime
contractors for the same job. No deductions shall be made by a general or prime
contractor for value of work performed by a sub-contractor.
No contractor shall be issued a business license until all performance and
indemnity bonds required by the Building Code have been filed and approved.
Zoning permits must be obtained when required by the Zoning Ordinance.
Each prime contractor shall file with the License Official a list of sub-
contractors furnishing labor or materials for each project.
For licenses issued on a per-job basis, the total tax for the full amount of
the contract shall be paid prior to commencement of work, and shall entitle the
contractor to complete the job without regard to the normal license expiration
date. An amended report shall be filed for each new job, and the appropriate
additional license fee per $1,000 of the contract amount shall be paid prior to
commencement of new work. Only one base tax shall be paid in a license year.
Licensees holding a per-job license shall file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount.
8.2   NAICS 482 - Railroad Companies (See S.C. Code § 12-23-210).
8.3   NAICS 517112, 517122 - Telephone Companies.
With respect to "retail telecommunications services" as defined in S. C. Code §
58-9-2200, the municipality participates in a collections program administered
by the Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality has approved
participation in the collections program by separate ordinance (the
"Telecommunications Collections Ordinance"). The rates, terms, conditions,
dates, penalties, appeals process, and other details of the business license
applicable to retail telecommunications services are set forth in the
Telecommunications Collections Ordinance.
8.4   NAICS 5241 - Insurance Companies:
Independent agents, brokers, their employees are subject to a business license
tax based on their natural class. With respect to insurers subject to license
fees and taxes under Chapter 7 of Title 38 and to brokers under Chapter 45 of
Title 38, the municipality participates in a collections program administered
by the Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality has approved
participation in the collections program by separate ordinance (the "Insurers
and Brokers Collections Ordinance"). The rates, terms, conditions, dates,
penalties, appeals process, and other details of the business license
applicable to insurers and brokers are set forth in the Insurers and Brokers
Collections Ordinance.
8.51   NAICS 713120 - Amusement Machines, coin operated (except gambling).
Music machines, juke boxes, kiddy rides, video games, pin tables with levers,
and other amusement machines with or without free play feature licensed by SC
Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(1) and (A)(2) [Type
I and Type II].
For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-21-2746:
   Per machine      $12.50 PLUS
   Business license      $12.50
Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by the state as
an operator pursuant to § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass 8.51.
8.52   NAICS 713290 - Amusement Machines, coin operated, non-payout.
Amusement machines of the non-payout type or in-line pin game licensed by SC
Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(3) [Type III].
For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to S.C. Code §
12-21-2720(B):
   Per machine      $180.00 PLUS
   Business license      $12.50
Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by the state as
an operator pursuant to § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass 8.52.
8.6   NAICS Code Varies - Billiard or Pool Tables. 
A business that offers the use of billiard or pool tables shall be subject to
business license taxation under its natural class for all gross income of the
business excluding the gross income attributable to the billiard or pool
tables. In addition, the billiard or pool tables shall require their own
separate business licenses pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2746 and shall be
subject to a license tax of $5.00 per table measuring less than 3-1/2 feet wide
and 7 feet long, and $12.50 per table longer than that.
9.1   NAICS 454390 - Peddlers, Solicitors, Canvassers, PROHIBITED Door-to-Door
Sales direct retail.
   Minimum on first $2,000      $24.00 PLUS
   Each additional 1,000         $12.00
9.2   NAICS 711310 - Promoters.
   Minimum on first $2,000      $200.00 PLUS
   Each additional 1,000         $3.00
9.3   NAICS 722410 - Drinking Places (alcoholic beverages, beer and wine).
   Minimum on first $2,000      $300.00 PLUS
   Each additional 1,000         $2.25
9.4   NAICS 53111 -Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings (Long-Term
Rentals).
   Minimum on first $2,000      $45.00 PLUS
   Each additional 1,000         $2.75
9.5   NAICS 721199 - All Other Traveler Accommodation.
All short term residential rentals in the city shall be classified under this
code.
   Minimum on first $2,000      $245.00 PLUS
   Each additional 1,000         $2.75
(Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 020-23, passed 11-28-23)
APPENDIX B: BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
NAICS             Industry Sector Class
Sector/ Subsector
NAICS             Industry Sector                                         Class
Sector/ Subsector
11                Agriculture, forestry, hunting, and fishing             2
21                Mining                                                  4
22                Utilities                                               1
31                Manufacturing                                           3
32                Manufacturing                                           3
33                Manufacturing                                           3
42                Wholesale trade                                         1
44                Retail trade                                            1
45                Retail trade                                            1
48                Transportation and warehousing                          1
49                Transportation and warehousing                          1
51                Information                                             4
52                Finance and insurance                                   7
53                Real estate and rental and leasing                      7
54                Professional, scientific, and technical services        5
55                Management of companies                                 7
56                Administrative and support and waste management and     3
                  remediation services
61                Educational services                                    3
62                Health care and social assistance                       4
71                Arts, entertainment, and recreation                     3
721               Accomodation                                            1
722               Food services and drinking places                       2
81                Other services                                          4
Class 8
23                Construction                                            8.1
482               Rail transportation                                     8.2
517111            Wired telecommunications carriers                       8.3
517112            Wireless telecommunications carriers (except satellite) 8.3
517122            Agents for wireless telecommunications services         8.3
5241              Insurance carriers                                      8.4
5242              Insurance brokers for non-admitted insurance carriers   8.4
713120            Amusement parks and arcades                             8.51
713290            Nonpayout amusement machines                            8.52
713990            All other amusement and recreational industries (pool   8.6
                  tables)
Class 9
454390            Peddlers, solicitors, canvassers, PROHIBITED door-to-   9.1
                  door sales direct retail.
53111             Lessors of residential buildings and dwellings (long    9.4
                  term rentals)
711310            Promoters                                               9.2
721199            All other traveler accommodation (short term rentals)   9.5
722410            Drinking places (alcoholic beverages)                   9.3
 
Note: Class Schedule is based on three year average (2017 - 2019) of IRS
statistical data.
(Ord. 36-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 020-23, passed 11-28-23)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Adoption of state law
   
111.02   Drinking in passenger cars
   
111.03   Prohibited acts generally
   
111.04   Possession and consumption
   
111.05   Curb service places; cleanliness
   
111.06   Possession by minors; purchase
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All the provisions and requirements of the general laws of the state
in regard to alcoholic beverages, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and other
similar malt or fermented beverages as contained in S.C. Code §§ 61-2-10
through 61-10-290 and amendments thereto, insofar as the provisions and
amendments have application within the city, are hereby adopted and made a part
of this chapter as fully as though set out herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to fail or
refuse to comply with the sections of the state law referred to above.
   (C)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE, BEER, WINE, ALE, PORTER, SPIRITS, and OTHER
SIMILAR MALT OR FERMENTED BEVERAGES shall be defined for purposes of this
chapter as stated in Title 61 of the Code of Laws of South Carolina 1976, as
amended from time to time.
(`95 Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 18-04, passed 9-29-04; Am. Ord. 26-21, passed 8-10-
21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02 DRINKING IN PASSENGER CARS.
   No person shall engage in drinking any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale,
porter, spirits, and other similar malt or fermented beverages in any
automobile.
(`95 Code, § 7-2-2) (Am. Ord. 26-21, passed 8-10-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.03 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for the holder of a state permit authorizing the sale
of any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and other similar
malt or fermented beverages or any agent or servant thereof, of the licensed
premises thereof covered by the permit, to:
   (A)   Sell any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and
other similar malt or fermented beverages to a minor;
   (B)   Sell any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and
other similar malt or fermented beverages to any person while the person is in
an intoxicated condition;
   (C)   Permit gambling and/or games of chance;
   (D)   Permit any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or
practices;
   (E)   Permit any act, the commission of which tends to create a public
nuisance, or which constitutes a crime under this code or other city ordinances
or the state law;
   (F)   Sell, offer for sale or possess any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine,
ale, porter, spirits, and other similar malt or fermented beverages of which
the sale or possession is prohibited on the licensed premises under state law;
   (G)   Commercial establishments which allow for the on-premises consumption
of any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and other similar
malt or fermented beverages shall be prohibited from operating between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Mondays through Sundays; or
   (H)   Commercial establishments, holding state permits authorizing the sale
of any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and other similar
malt or fermented beverages shall be prohibited from selling or dispensing the
items between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Mondays through Sundays.
(`95 Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 18-04, passed 9-29-04; Am. Ord. 19-08, passed 7-22-
08; Am. Ord. 26-21, passed 8-10-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.04 POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   No shopkeeper, storekeeper, soda fountain operator, restaurant
operator, grocery store keeper or any person licensed to sell any alcoholic
beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and other similar malt or fermented
beverages shall allow removal of open containers of the items from the
premises.
      (2)   No described operator shall allow open containers on premises,
except an operator who has a consumption on premises license.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall purchase any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine,
ale, porter, spirits, and other similar malt or fermented beverages from any
place licensed to sell the items in open containers except if the establishment
has a consumption on premises license.
      (2)   Open containers of any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter,
spirits, and other similar malt or fermented beverages purchased on the
premises must be consumed on the premises.
   (C)   No person shall possess an open container of any alcoholic beverage,
beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and other similar malt or fermented beverages
on the streets, beach or other public property. Beverages containing zero
alcohol as a percentage of weight are allowed on the beach in cups. Any cans or
non glass bottles must remain in the cooler at all times provided they may be
removed briefly for the purpose of transferring the contents to a cup. Kegs,
small or large, are considered cans and shall not be allowed on the beach.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to activities that have been reviewed by
the staff Special Event Committee and approved by City Council. During such
events, it is prohibited to possess glassware or glass bottles in the festival
area and restaurants are strictly prohibited from permitting any glass bottles
or glassware to leave the premises into the festival area. Any violation of
this will result in penalties as prescribed in §
10.99.
(`95 Code, § 7-2-4) (Am. Ord. 23-11, passed 7-12-11; Am. Ord. 24-12, passed 9-
11-12; Am. Ord. 15-15, passed 8-11-15; Am. Ord. 30-19, passed 10-8-19; Am. Ord.
26-21, passed 8-10-21; Am. Ord. 001-22, passed 2-8-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 CURB SERVICE PLACES; CLEANLINESS.
   The operator or seller of any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter,
spirits, and other similar malt or fermented beverages for consumption at curb
service places is hereby chargedwith the duty of keeping clean the curb service
premises and the immediate abutting property, including the street, ditches,
sidewalks, beaches and other public places.
(`95 Code, § 7-2-5) (Am. Ord. 26-21, passed 8-10-21)
§ 111.06 POSSESSION BY MINORS; PURCHASE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful within the city for any person under 21 years of
age to be in possession of any alcoholic beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter,
spirits, and other similar malt or fermented beverages .
(`95 Code, § 7-2-6)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to purchase or obtain any alcoholic
beverage, beer, wine, ale, porter, spirits, and other similar malt or fermented
beverages for anyone under 21 years of age.
(`95 Code, § 7-2-7) (Am. Ord. 20-99, passed 6- -99; Am. Ord. 01-09, passed 2-
24-09; Am. Ord. 26-21, passed 8-10-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 112: SINGLE-USE PLASTIC BAGS, POLYSTYRENE COOLERS, CONTAINERS AND CUPS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Regulations
   
112.04   Exemptions
   
112.05   Effective date and waivers
 
   
112.99   Penalties
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to improve the environment of the city by
encouraging the use of reusable checkout bags and recyclable paper carryout
bags and banning the use of single-use plastic bags for retail checkout of
purchased goods. Business establishments are encouraged to make reusable bags
available for sale and recyclable paper carryout bags available for
distribution.
(Ord. 29-16, passed 9-13-16)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. Any commercial enterprise that provides carryout
bags to its customers through its employees or independent contractors
associated with the business. The term includes sole proprietorships, joint
ventures, partnerships, corporations, or any other legal entity whether for
profit or not for profit.
   SINGLE-USE PLASTIC CARRYOUT BAG. A bag provided by a business establishment
to a customer typically at the point of sale for the purpose
of transporting purchases, which is made predominantly of plastic derived from
either petroleum or a biologically-based source. “Single-use plastic carryout
bag” includes compostable and biodegradable bags but does not include reusable
carryout bags.
   REUSABLE CARRYOUT BAG. A carryout bag that is specifically designed and
manufactured for multiple reuse, and meets the following criteria:
      (1)   Displays in a highly visible manner on the bag exterior, language
describing the bag’s ability to be reused and recycled;
      (2)   Has a handle which is stitched and not heat-fused; except that
handles are not required for carryout bags constructed out of recyclable paper
with a height of less than 14 inches and width of less than eight inches;
      (3)   Is constructed out of any of the following materials:
         (a)   Cloth, other machine washable fabric, or other durable materials
whether woven or non-woven; or
         (b)   Plastic film with a minimum thickness of four mils and capable
of being cleaned and disinfected; and
      (4)   Has a minimum lifetime of 125 uses, which for purposes of this
section means the capability of carrying a minimum of 22 pounds 125 times over
a distance of at least 175 feet.
   CUSTOMER. A person who purchases merchandise from a business establishment.
   EXPANDED POLYSTYRENE COOLER, SINGLE USE CONTAINER, OR CUP ALSO KNOWN AS
STYROFOAM™. Any cooler/ice chest, single-use container, or cup made of
polystyrene foam, where such foam is not fully encased in a durable material.
(Ord. 29-16, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord. 015-24, passed 6-11-24)
§ 112.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person may provide single-use plastic carryout bags at any city
facility, city-sponsored event, or any event held on city property.
   (B)   No business establishment within the city limits may provide single
use plastic carryout bags to its customers.
   (C)   Business establishments within the city limits are strongly encouraged
to provide prominently displayed signage advising customers of the benefit of
reducing, reusing and recycling and promoting the use of reusable carryout bags
and recyclable paper carryout bags by customers.
   (D)   All business establishments shall provide or make available to a
customer reusable carryout bags or recyclable paper bags.
   (E)   No business establishment in the city may sell, rent or otherwise
provide an expanded polystyrene foam (also known as Styrofoam™) cooler single-
use container, or cup; or purchase, obtain, keep, distribute sell, or give for
home or personal use, or otherwise provide to customers any expanded
polystyrene foam coolers, single-use containers, or cups in the city.
(Ord. 29-16, passed 9-13-16)
§ 112.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Laundry dry cleaning bags, door-hanger bags, newspaper bags, or
packages of multiple bags intended for use as garbage, pet waste, or yard
waste;
   (B)   Bags provided by pharmacists or veterinarians to contain prescription
drugs or other medical necessities;
   (C)   Bags used by a customer inside a business establishment to:
      (1)   Contain bulk items, such as produce, nuts, grains, candy, or small
hardware items;
      (2)   Contain or wrap frozen foods, meat, or fish, whether or not
prepackaged;
      (3)   Contain or wrap flowers, potted plants or other items to prevent
moisture damage to other purchases; or
      (4)   Contain unwrapped prepared foods or bakery goods; and
   (D)   Bags of any type that the customer brings to the store for their own
use for carrying away from the store goods that are not placed in a bag
provided by the store.
   (E)   Plastic cutlery provided for dine-in, take-out, or delivery orders
provided that the cutlery is dispensed upon the request or affirmative response
of a customer or person begin provided food or beverage, or in a self-service
dispenser.
(Ord. 29-16, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord. 015-24, passed 6-11-24)
§ 112.05 EFFECTIVE DATE AND WAIVERS.
   All of the requirements set forth in this chapter shall take effect January
1, 2017. In the event that compliance with the effective date of this chapter
is not feasible for a business establishment because of either unavailability
of alternative checkout bags or economic hardship, City Council may grant a
waiver of not more than 12 months upon application of the business owner or
owner's representative.
(Ord. 29-16, passed 9-13-16)
§ 112.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Business License Official is responsible for the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any business establishment that violates or fails to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter after a written warning notice has been
issued for that violation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty
shall not exceed $100 for a first violation; $200 for a second violation within
any 12-month period; and $500 for each additional violation within any 12-month
period. Each day that a violation continues will constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties set forth in this section, repeated
violations of this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates, is a
business agent of, or otherwise controls a business establishment may result in
the suspension or revocation of the business license issued to the premises on
which the violations occurred. No city business license shall be issued or
renewed until all fines outstanding against the applicant for violations of
this chapter are paid in full.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the city by restraining order, preliminary and permanent
injunction, or other means provided for by law, and the city may take action to
recover the costs of the nuisance abatement.
(Ord. 29-16, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord. 015-24, passed 6-11-24)
CHAPTER 113: HOTELS AND MOTELS
Section
   
113.01   Findings
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Municipal accommodations fee; payment
   
113.04   Special revenue fund
   
113.05   Distribution of funds
   
113.06   Inspections, audits and administration
   
113.07   Violations
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Beach preservation fee, see §
151.39
§ 113.01 FINDINGS.
   It is hereby found and declared by the City Council:
   (A)   (1)   Tourism is a major industry in the city, the growth and
development of which the city has encouraged and supported in order to enhance
its economic development and tax base and to provide a stable economy for its
citizens.
      (2)   The city has supported the tourism industry by budgeting city
funds, composed of ad valorem property taxes, in order to provide services and
facilities that are required for the well being, security, comfort and
convenience of visitors.
   (B)   The costs of providing public safety and welfare services and the
maintenance of the beach required by the tourism industry, as well as future
renourishment projects, should be apportioned more equitably between the
taxpayers and those who visit the city and enjoy special benefits provided. It
is necessary for the promotion of the interests of city residents as well as
those who are visitors to provide a method for paying certain costs by a means
other than the levy of ad valorem property taxes.
   (C)   (1)   It is, and has been, the policy of City Council to decrease, as
much as possible, the burden of ad valorem property taxes on its citizens by
assessing charges to those who impact, but also enjoy the benefits of, city
services and facilities.
      (2)   It is only reasonable and appropriate that those who visit the city
and who utilize and are advantaged by city facilities and services contribute a
portion of the costs required to provide the same.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOMMODATION. Any room (excluding meeting and conference rooms), campground
spaces, recreational vehicle spaces, lodgings or sleeping accommodations
furnished to transients by any hotel, motel, inn, condominium, bed and
breakfast, residence or any other place in which rooms, lodgings or sleeping
accommodations are furnished to transients for a consideration within the city.
Gross proceeds received from the lease or rental of ACCOMMO- DATIONS provided
to the same person or persons for a term of more than 30 continuous days are
not considered proceeds from transients and shall not be subject to the
accommodation fee imposed by this chapter.
   RESIDENT. Any person who has or shall have the right of occupancy of any
rooms, lodgings or sleeping accommodations in the same place for a term of more
than 30 continuous days.
   TRANSIENT. Any person seeking accommo- dations for a temporary period of
time, not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98)
§ 113.03 MUNICIPAL ACCOMMODATIONS FEE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a uniform fee of 2% of the gross
proceeds derived from the rental of any accommodation within the city. The fee
shall not be levied upon the gross proceeds derived from the rental of
accommodations to a resident.
   (B)   (1)   Payment of the municipal accommo- dations fee established herein
shall be the obligation and liability of the user of the accommodations. The
fee shall be paid at the time of provision of the accommodations to which the
fee applies, and shall be collected and remitted by the provider of the
accommodations.
      (2)   The form of return for remitting the fees shall be the form
required by the County Business License/User Fee Department for the reporting
of the country accommodations fees. No later than the twentieth day of the
month following the collection of the fees, the provider of the accommodations
shall remit the form along with a copy of the state sales tax computation form
and the fees due hereunder to the county’s Business License/User Fee
Department, No. 2 Court House Square, Room 105, Charleston, South Carolina,
29401, in the same manner prescribed for the collection of the county
accommodations fee.
      (3)   By mutual agreement between the city and the county, the county
will collect the fees due hereunder and deliver the same to the City Clerk-
Treasurer in the manner agreed to by both parties.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98; Am. Ord. 05-15, passed 6-9-15)
§ 113.04 SPECIAL REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   An interest-bearing, segregated and restricted fund, known as the
Beach Preservation Fund is established.
   (B)   All revenues received from the municipal accommodations fee shall be
deposited into this fund. All principal and accrued interest in this fund shall
be expended only as permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98; Am. Ord. 18-14, passed 9-9-14)
§ 113.05 DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
   All funds placed in the Local Tax Fund, including accrued interest, shall be
designated for use annually through the adoption of the General Fund Budget
Ordinance as approved by City Council. A minimum of one-half of annual
proceeds, including accrued interest, shall be transferred annually to the
Beach Preservation Fund to benefit the citizens of Folly Beach and tourists who
come to visit as set forth in S.C. § 6-1-730.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98) (Am. Ord. 33-11, passed 12-13-11; Am. Ord. 06-13,
passed 4-2-13; Am. Ord. 18-14, passed 9-9-14; Am. Ord. 05-15, passed 6-9-15;
Am. Ord. 001-23, passed 3-14-23)
§ 113.06 INSPECTIONS, AUDITS AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of monitoring and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the City Administrator, the County Business License/User Fee
Department representatives or any other duly authorized agent of the city are
authorized and empowered to enter upon the premises of any person or entity
subject to this chapter to make inspections and examine or audit any and all
business and financial books and records of the person or entity.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to fail or refuse to
make available the requested books and records during normal business hours
upon 24 hours prior written notice. In the event, an audit reveals that
inaccurate or incorrect information has been filed by the provider or its
agents, the cost of the audit shall be added to any fees determined to be due.
The County Business License/User Fee Department may make systematic inspections
of all accommo-dations within the city to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Records of inspections shall not be deemed public records.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.07 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
   (A)   Fail to collect any municipal accommo- dations fee imposed by this
chapter;
   (B)   Fail to timely remit to the County Business License/User Fee
Department the municipal accom-modations fees collected hereunder as required
by this chapter;
   (C)   Knowingly provide false, inaccurate or misleading information on the
fee reporting form or in connection with any inspection, examination or audit
conducted pursuant to this chapter; or
   (D)   Fail to provide access to all business and financial books and records
of the provider to the city or its duly authorized agents for the purpose of an
audit, upon 24 hours' advance notice.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter which no other
penalty is set forth shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A civil penalty of 5% of the amount of the fees due hereunder,
compounded monthly, up to a maximum of 100% of the amount of the fees due
hereunder, shall be assessed for each violation of this chapter.
   (C)   A wilful violation of this chapter is held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining parts shall be severable and shall
continue to be in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-3-98)
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION SERVICE
Section
   
115.01   Findings of Council
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Reserved
   
115.04   Reserved
   
115.05   Immobilization on private property/immobilization prohibited on public
property without authorization
   
115.06   Maximum charge for non-consensual immobilization on private property
§ 115.01 FINDINGS OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   City Council finds that regulations are needed to control
immobilization of vehicles on both public and private property.
   (B)   City Council finds in many instances when a vehicle is immobilized on
private property, vehicle owners are subjected to instances of price gouging
and other overly stringent requirements for the return of their vehicles.
   (C)   City Council finds that there is often inadequate signage on private
property, indicating the times when a car may be immobilized or of the price of
a non-consensual immobilization, thereby inadequately apprising the public of
the maximum risks of imprudent parking on private property.
   (D)   City Council finds that immobilization may be necessary to ensure
compliance with regulations for parking on public property.
   (E)   Further, City Council intends to exercise its police powers to ensure
that the public security, general welfare, health and order of the city are
adequately protected from price gouging and unscrupulous operators.
(Ord. 10-09, passed 8-25-09; Am. Ord. 022-23, passed 1-10-24)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Any real private property where the primary use is for
office, retail, wholesale, restaurant, education or service for hire uses and
where parking is available for property owners, occupants or their patrons,
clients or customers. The term also applies to private parking lots for which
hourly or other periodic charges are made for the right to park on the
premises, regardless of whether there are structures on the property. The term
does not include property having primarily a residential use, with the
exception of multiple dwelling units.
   IMMOBILIZATION DEVICE. A mechanical device that is professionally
manufactured and designed to immobilize the vehicle and prevent anyone but the
keyholder from removing it.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle.
   NON-CONSENSUAL IMMOBILIZATION. The booting of a vehicle authorized or
directed by a person other than the vehicle owner, authorized operator or
authorized agent of the owner. A NON-CONSENSUAL IMMOBILIZATION includes, but is
not limited to:  Any immobilization performed contrary to the specific
direction of the vehicle owner, authorized operator, or authorized agent of the
owner; or
      (1)   Any immobilization performed contrary to the specific direction of
the vehicle owner, authorized operator, or authorized agent of the owner; or
      (3)   Any immobilization performed without disclosure of the rates and
charges to be assessed. This definition shall not apply to non-consensual
immobilization that occurs as a result of a vehicle repossession by a lien
holder having title to the vehicle or immobilization due to unpaid parking
tickets.
   OPERATOR. Any individual or company engaged in the practice of immobilizing
vehicles through mechanical devices.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY IMMOBILIZATION. The immobilization of a motor vehicle on
private property at the request of the property owner.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY IMMOBILIZATION. The immobilization of a motor vehicle on
public property.
(Ord. 10-09, passed 8-25-09; Am. Ord. 10-18, passed 9-25-18; Am. Ord. 022-23,
passed 1-10-24)
§ 115.03 RESERVED.
§ 115.04 RESERVED.
§ 115.05 IMMOBILIZATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY/IMMOBILIZATION PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC
PROPERTY WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to immobilize a vehicle on commercially zoned
private property without authorization from the owner of the motor vehicle or
of the city, except under the following circumstances.
      (1)   The property owner has posted the property with signs. Each sign
face shall be at least six square feet.
      (2)   The posted signs were in place, clearly visible and legible to any
driver approaching any point of ingress to the property where parking is
prohibited or restricted at the time the vehicle was parked.
      (3)   The posted signs contain a clear warning that:
         (a)   Violators’ vehicles will be immobilized, at the vehicle owner’s
expense;
         (b)   The telephone number to call for release of the vehicle;
         (c)   The maximum price for release of the vehicle is $125; and
         (d)   The operator must arrive to release the vehicle within 30
minutes of calling for release of the vehicle or there can be no charge for the
release of the vehicle.
      (4)   All signage must be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   The signage requirements in this section are exempt from the
requirements for signage contained in the city Zoning Ordinance; and the
requirements in this section shall prevail.
   (B)   The owner of the vehicle immobilized on commercially zoned private
property shall be responsible for paying all applicable charges provided that
the private property owner has complied with all of the requirements contained
in division (A) above. If a vehicle is immobilized as a result of a property
owner’s request and the property owner has not complied with the requirements
of division (A) above, or if the vehicle is shown to have been legally parked,
the property owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may, in the discretion
of the municipal judge as provided in S.C. Code § 14-25-75, be subject to
reimburse the owner of the vehicle for all charges that the owner of the
vehicle paid.
   (C)   Before immobilizing a vehicle on commercially zoned private property
without authorization from the vehicle owner, the operator shall obtain from
the property owner a written authorization which shall set forth the name and
signature of the property owner, unless, such authorization has been previously
filed pursuant to this section.
   (D)   A company used to immobilize cars on private property must have a City
of Folly Beach Business License.
   (E)   There shall be no immobilization on public property unless authorized
by the Director of Public Safety or his or her designee.
   (F)   Certain parked vehicles declared nuisance. Any vehicle parked on any
street or other public property, which is found to be the subject of $150 or
more past due on outstanding parking fines issued pursuant to any state or city
parking ordinance is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Any vehicle that
has been identified as a public nuisance shall be subject to immobilization.
      (1)   Immobilization of nuisance vehicles. A police officer or any other
person designated by the Chief of Police may immobilize, using vehicle
immobilization equipment, any vehicle which is identified as a public nuisance.
When attaching vehicle immobilization equipment to a vehicle, the officer, or
their designee, shall affix notice to the windshield or other part of the
vehicle so as to be readily visible. The notice shall:
         (a)   Warn that the vehicle has been immobilized and that any attempt
to move the vehicle may result in damage to the vehicle;
         (b)   State the total amount of fines due for parking tickets which
are overdue and unpaid that are attributable to such vehicle, in addition to an
immobilization fine;
         (c)   List the address and telephone number to be contacted to pay the
charges to have the vehicle immobilization equipment removed; and
         (d)   Warn that after 48 hours, towing will occur.
      (2)   The owner of an immobilized vehicle which has been declared a
public nuisance due to unpaid tickets shall be subject to an immobilization
fine of $125 for the immobilization, which fee shall be exclusive of any bonds
posted or fines imposed.
      (3)   Upon payment of all fines, overdue, and unpaid parking tickets, and
the immobilization fine, the vehicle immobilization equipment shall be removed
and the vehicle shall be released to the registered owner or any other person
legally entitled to claim possession of the vehicle.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove vehicle immobilization
equipment placed on a vehicle pursuant to this section without all fines having
first been paid or an approved payment having been made. The city shall not be
responsible for any damage to an immobilized vehicle resulting from
unauthorized attempts to free or move the vehicle.
      (5)   The city assumes no liability for loss or damage to a vehicle or
its contents that has been immobilized or impounded pursuant to this section.
      (6)   If the parking fines and the immobilization fine are not paid, or
satisfactory arrangements in lieu of payment are not made, within 48 hours, the
vehicle will be towed and impounded. Towing and storage charges shall be the
responsibility of the vehicle owner.
      (7)   After the vehicle is towed, notification shall be made in writing
by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, the person in whose
name the vehicle was last registered at the last address reflected by the state
Department of Motor Vehicles records that the vehicle is being held and
designating the place where it is being held.
      (8)   Vehicles which have been towed and impounded will not be released
until all unpaid parking citations and immobilization fines have been paid.
Vehicles impounded and not claimed within 30 days may be disposed of in
accordance with state statutes.
   (G)   In the event there is a dispute between the booting operator and the
owner of the vehicle, either party may request a court date to resolve the
dispute.
(Ord. 10-09, passed 8-25-09; Am. Ord. 10-18, passed 9-25-18; Am. Ord. 022-23,
passed 1-10-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 MAXIMUM CHARGE FOR NON-CONSENSUAL IMMOBILIZATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The maximum rate that may be charged for a non-consensual
immobilization of a vehicle on commercially zoned private property shall be
$125 inclusive of any and all additional fees. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other law, when a vehicle has been immobilized on commercially zoned
private property and subsequently towed from such property, no additional
charge may be imposed for the towing of such vehicle.
   (B)   Immediately upon installing the locking wheel boot, a blaze orange
warning decal at least 47 square inches in size shall be prominently placed in
the center of the driver’s side window or on the front windshield directly in
front of the vehicle steering wheel. The specific language on the warning sign
shall be subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator and shall clearly and
legibly inform the operator of the vehicle that a locking device has been
installed on the front wheel of the vehicle and that attempting to move the
vehicle will cause serious damage to the vehicle. This decal shall display the
telephone number and address of the licensee. Upon payment of the booting fee,
the licensee shall remove the decal and shall have in possession the
appropriate materials needed to remove all parts of the decal and residue.
   (C)   Vehicle immobilization service permits shall maintain 24 hour
telephones and wheel locking device removal services, and shall respond to a
request to remove a wheel locking device within 30 minutes. If a permitted
party does not appear to remove the wheel locking device within 30 minutes of a
customer request, the locking device shall be removed at no charge. If the
permitted party fails to appear to remove the wheel locking device within one
hour of a customer request, the permitted party shall be subject to a fine as
indicated in division (F) below.
   (D)   If the owner, authorized operator or authorized agent of the owner of
a motor vehicle that is parked without authorization on private property
attempts to retrieve the vehicle before immobilization actually occurs, there
shall be no fee and the vehicle owner shall be allowed to remove the vehicle
without further delay.
   (E)   Every operator affiliated with companies in the corporate limits of
the city shall accept major credit cards in addition to cash. There shall be no
additional fee charged for the use of credit cards.
   (F)   An operator who violates the terms of this section shall be subject to
a fine not exceeding $500, or serve a term not exceeding 30 days in jail, or
both.
(Ord. 10-09, passed 8-25-09; Am. Ord. 10-18, passed 9-25-18; Am. Ord. 022-23,
passed 1-10-24)
 
CHAPTER 116: NON-CONSENSUAL TOWING OF VEHICLES
Section
   
116.01   Findings of Council
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Reserved
   
116.04   Reserved
   
116.05   Marking of towing vehicles/towing from public property
   
116.06   Towing from private property/public property
   
116.07   Maximum charge for non- consensual tow
   
116.08   Methods of payment at vehicle storage facilities
   
116.09   Signage required at place of payment
§ 116.01 FINDINGS OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   City Council finds in many instances when a vehicle is towed from
private property without the owners knowledge or consent that vehicle owners
are at the complete mercy of the tow truck operators and as such, are subjected
to instances of price gouging and other overly stringent requirements for the
return of their vehicles.
   (B)   City Council finds that due to the parking of vehicles in the
commercial area and some unique circumstances, laws and regulations are needed
to control how towing is performed.
   (C)   City Council finds that there is often inadequate signage, indicating
the times when a car may be towed or of the price of a non-consensual tow,
thereby inadequately apprising the public of the maximum risks of imprudent
parking.
   (D)   Further, City Council intends to exercise its police powers to ensure
that the public security, general welfare, health and order of the city are
adequately protected from price gouging and unscrupulous towing carriers.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-25-09)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. Any real property located in the commercial zoning
district.
   DELIVER. Placing a towed motor vehicle in the actual possession of the
owner, authorized operator or authorized agent of the owner.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle.
   NON-CONSENSUAL TOW.  A tow authorized or directed by a person other than the
vehicle owner, authorized operator or authorized agent of the owner. A NON-
CONSENSUAL TOW includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   A private property tow;
      (2)   Any tow performed contrary to the specific direction of the vehicle
owner, authorized operator or authorized agent of the owner; or
      (3)   Any tow performed without disclosure of the rates and charges to be
assessed. This definition shall not apply to non-consensual tows that occur as
a result of a vehicle repossession by a lien holder having title to the
vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY TOW. The towing of a motor vehicle from private property at
the request of the property owner.
   TOWING CARRIER. Any person, company, partnership, employees engaged in the
business of towing vehicles.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-25-09)
§ 116.03 RESERVED.
§ 116.04 RESERVED.
§ 116.05 MARKING OF TOWING VEHICLES/TOWING FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No towing carrier shall operate any tow truck, owned or leased, upon the
public ways of the city without first marking or affixing, in a permanent
manner, on each side of the tow truck, the towing carrier’s name, address and
telephone number, which markings shall also comply with applicable safety
regulations. The use of magnetic signs are prohibited. A company used to tow
cars on private property must have a City of Folly Beach Business License.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-25-09; Am. Ord. 10-18, passed 9-25-18)
§ 116.06 TOWING FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY/PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to charge for the removal of any motor vehicle
from commercial property without authorization from the owner of the motor
vehicle or of the city, except under the following circumstances.
      (1)   The property owner has posted the property with signs. Each sign
face shall be at least six square feet.
      (2)   The posted signs where in place, clearly visible and legible to any
driver approaching any point of ingress to the property where parking is
prohibited or restricted at the time the vehicle was parked.
      (3)   The posted signs contain a clear warning that violators’ vehicles
will be towed, at the vehicle owner’s expense, the telephone number to call and
the address where release of the towed vehicle may be obtained.
      (4)   All signage must be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   The signage requirements in this chapter are exempt from the
requirements for signage contained in the city Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   The owner of the vehicle towed from commercially zoned private
property shall be responsible for paying all applicable towing and storage
charges provided that the private property owner has complied with all of the
requirements contained in division (A) above. If a vehicle is towed as a result
of a property owner’s request and the property owner has not complied with the
requirements of division (A) above, or if the vehicle is shown to have been
legally parked, the property owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may, in
the discretion of the municipal judge as provided in S.C. Code § 14-25-75, be
subject to reimburse the owner of the vehicle for all towing and storage
charges which the owner of the vehicle paid.
   (C)   Before towing a vehicle from commercially zoned private property
without authorization from the vehicle owner, the tow truck operator shall
obtain from the property owner a written authorization which shall set forth
the name and signature of the property owner, unless, such authorization has
been previously filed pursuant to §
116.03(A)(8).
   (D)   Any towing carrier performing a non-consensual tow, shall, within 30
minutes of the removal, telephone the Police Department to verbally report the
tow by providing the applicable information on the tow record/invoice form
described in §
116.04. Any towing operator which fails to give such notice within one hour of
the time the vehicle was towed shall not be entitled to any compensation for
the towing and storing operation and shall deliver it upon request.
   (E)   There shall be no towing from public property unless authorized by the
Director of Public Safety or his or her designee.
   (F)   In the event there is a dispute between the booting operator and the
owner of the vehicle, either party may request a court date to resolve the
dispute.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-25-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.07 MAXIMUM CHARGE FOR NON- CONSENSUAL TOW.
   (A)   The towing fee for the city is $150.
   (B)   The maximum rate that may be charged for a non-consensual tow of a
vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 10,000 pounds shall be
no more than 150% of the city’s towing fee for towing on city streets, which
shall include charges for all services rendered including, but not limited to,
hookup fees, gate fees and all other services rendered in performing such
private property tow, except as stated elsewhere in this section.
   (C)   If the owner, authorized operator or authorized agent of the owner of
a motor vehicle which is parked without authorization on private property
attempts to retrieve the vehicle before removal of the motor vehicle from the
private property, the maximum release fee (drop charge) shall not exceed 50% of
the maximum fee allowed in division (A) above. In such circumstances, the
owner, authorized operator or authorized agent of the owner of a motor vehicle
so parked may offer payment of the towing carrier’s drop charge, and if so
offered before removal of the motor vehicle to be towed, the towing carrier
shall immediately accept such payment and immediately thereafter deliver the
motor vehicle without further transportation or handling.
   (D)   If dollies are required and used to perform a non-consensual tow, the
maximum additional amount that may be charged shall be $10.
   (E)   The maximum storage amount that may be charged for a vehicle that has
been towed as a result of a non-consensual tow and that has remained on the tow
lot for more than two hours shall be no more than $6 for the first 24 hour
period and $15 during any 24 hour period of storage after the vehicle has been
on the lot for the first 24 hours.
   (F)   A fee in an amount not to exceed $10 may be charged to cover expenses
incurred if the owner and lien holder of the towed vehicle are notified by
certified, registered mail of the location of the towed article.
   (G)   All charges for a non-consensual tow shall be for services rendered in
the towing, storing or notifying the owner of such vehicles. No towing carrier
shall include in its charges any sum of money payable to a third person or
entity for any purpose, including, but not limited to, payments to an owner or
representative of property from which such vehicles are towed. The inclusion of
such sums are declared to be an unfair trade practices.
   (H)   A towing carrier who violates the terms of this section shall be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500, or serve a term not exceeding 30 days in
jail, or both.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-25-09)
§ 116.08 METHODS OF PAYMENT AT VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Every vehicle storage facility affiliated with a towing company within the
corporate limits of the city shall accept major credit cards in addition to
cash. There shall be no additional fee charged for the use of credit cards.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-25-09)
§ 116.09 SIGNAGE REQUIRED AT PLACE OF PAYMENT.
   Every entity performing non-consensual tows shall have affixed in a
prominent place, clearly visible to patrons retrieving towed vehicles, a sign
provided by the city outlining the maximum fees and required methods of
payment.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 8-25-09)
CHAPTER 117: SHORT TERM RENTALS
Section
   
117.01   Purpose, applicability, and definitions
   
117.02   Short term rental business licenses
   
117.03   License, registration, and tax requirements
   
117.04   Additional requirements for short term rentals
Cross-reference:
   Noise from short term rental properties, see §
131.31
§ 117.01 PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY, AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the licensing of dwelling
units as short term rentals in order to:
      (1)   Protect the integrity of the city’s neighborhoods and the quality
of life of its citizens;
      (2)   Establish a system to track the short term rental inventory in the
city;
      (3)   To protect the health and safety of occupants of short term rental
units;
      (4)   To ensure a level playing field for individuals in the short term
rental market; and
      (5)   To protect the residential character of the dwelling units within
the city.
   (B)   The following definitions apply:
      DESIGNATED LOCAL AGENT. A local agent, identified through application for
a rental registration permit, who shall be responsible for operating a short
term rental in compliance with the law. Official notices may be served on the
designated local agent and/or the owner, and any notice served on the
designated local agent shall be deemed to have been served upon the owner of
record. The designated local agent may be cited and served notice for any
violation under this chapter for which the owner may be cited or served.
      DESTINATION CLUBS. Destination or private vacation clubs ("destination
clubs") are classified as private and/or exclusive membership organizations or
commercial businesses primarily engaged in providing short term overnight
accommodations and related services for its club members with non-ownership
interest who seek alternative options to standard vacation home rentals.
DESTINATION CLUBS typically own or lease properties from the owners on a long
term basis, provide those properties in a variety of locations to its members
on a short term basis, and model a membership access structure where its
members purchase membership levels granting access to properties and
personalized services. Properties offered by destination clubs to a member for
less than 30 days are considered short term rentals whether the destination
club is an owner of record or a lessee. All references to "owners” in this
chapter apply to destination clubs.
      DWELLING UNIT. A structure, or portion thereof, providing complete living
facilities for a single family including a complete kitchen. One structure may
contain multiple dwelling units with different property tax classifications.
      GOOD STANDING. A license shall be considered in good standing if:
         (a)   The license has not been denied, revoked, or suspended in the
current license year. A license which has been denied, revoked, or suspended in
the current license year shall not be renewed except upon successful appeal of
the denial, revocation, or suspension.
         (b)   The license has not expired. A license shall be deemed expired
ten business days after the final day of the previous business license year.
         (c)   The dwelling unit for which an ISTR license was issued was
rented for a minimum of 28 nights in thebusiness license year prior to renewal.
Executed rental contracts and receipt of payment shall be required to establish
compliance with minimum rental night requirements.The minimum rental night
requirement shall be waived in the event that:
            1.   A natural disaster or other Act of God renders the dwelling
unit uninhabitable for a period of more than six months in the current business
license year; or
            2.   Work related to valid building permit, carried out to address
life, safety, or health violations documented by the Building Official renders
the dwelling unit uninhabitable for a period of more than six months in the
current business license year;
            3.   A license was issued after May 1 of the previous license year
for the dwelling unit to be rented for the first time or after a change in
ownership and successful application for a new business license.
      HOUSE EXCHANGE PROGRAMS. The occasional occupancy of a residential
occupancy assessed by Charleston County at a 4% property tax rate by someone
other than the owner of the residence while the owner is temporarily absent
from the residence, and no monetary compensation is paid to the owners for such
occupancy. HOUSE EXCHANGE PROGRAMS are not short term rentals.
      INVESTMENT SHORT TERM RENTAL BUSINESS LICENSE (ISTR). A license issued
for a dwelling unit, to be rented as a short term rental, that:
         (a)   Is not the legal residence of the owner; or
         (b)   Is not the legal residence of the owner and was inherited after
February 7, 2023 from the person named as owner of record on February 7, 2023.
            1.   Proof of inheritance shall be shown through a deed of
distribution, court order, or similar document showing transfer of ownership to
the applicant.
            2.   Application for an ISTR for the rental of a dwelling unit
inherited after February 7, 2023 must be made within 90 days of transfer of
ownership except that an application for the rental of a dwelling unit
inherited between February 7, 2023 and February 20, 2024 may be made at any
time prior to May 1, 2025.
      LEGAL RESIDENCE. A dwelling unit assigned a 4% property tax ratio by the
Charleston County Assessor’s Office under the requirements of S.C. Code § 12-
43-220.
   MEDICAL HARDSHIP INVESTMENT SHORT TERM RENTAL BUSINESS LICENSE (MISTR). A
license issued for a dwelling unit, to be rented as a short term rental, that
is owned by the owner of record on February 7, 2023 upon certification that the
owner no longer resides on the premises and is housed in a care facility, or
requires care at another private location; or is no longer capable of
performing at least three activities of daily living.
         (a)   Activities of daily living are defined as personal hygiene tasks
(bathing, grooming, oral, nail and hair care); medication management; walking
independently; dressing; transferring in and out of bed; and maintaining
continence.
         (b)   Certification that an owner can no longer perform activities of
daily living shall be provided on a form approved by the city and completed by
a licensed medical doctor, doctor of osteopathic medicine, physician assistant,
or advanced practice registered nurse.
         (c)   Proof of care shall be through a lease agreement or similar
document, or a contract for in-home care.
         (d)   Certification for an ISTR issued due to medical hardship shall
be submitted annually.
         (e)   No more than one MISTR may be obtained by any owner through
medical hardship.
      OWNER-OCCUPIED SHORT TERM RENTAL BUSINESS LICENSE (OSTR). A license
issued for a dwelling unit to be rented no more than 72 nights annually that:
         (a)   That is the legal residence of the owner.
         (b)   That is the legal residence of the owner but given a partial 6%
property tax rate by Charleston County. The portion of a dwelling unit taxed at
a 6% property tax rate which was licensed as a short term rental prior to
February 7, 2023 is not subject to the 72-night annual rental limit.
      PROVISIONAL SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSE (PSTR). A license issued for a
dwelling unit to be used as a short-term rental for no more than 90 days to
allow compliance with the requirements of the South Carolina Vacation Rental
Act, specifically S.C. Code § 27-50-250. A PSTR shall only be issued to the
purchaser of an existing short-term rental with ISTR or OSTR license in good
standing, is valid only for rental contracts disclosed under the terms of the
Act, and shall expire at the end of the last authorized rental period. All
rental nights allowed by a PSTR shall count towards the 72 rental nights
allowed by an OSTR license should the dwelling become the legal residence of
the owner.
      RENTAL OCCUPANT. Any person who, in exchange for compensation paid,
occupies a dwelling unit for less than 30 days.
      RENTAL RULES AND GENERAL REGULATIONS. Regulations regarding noise, trash,
parking, alcohol on the beach, animals, litter, surfing, dune protection, sea
turtles, smoking on the beach, requirements for special events, maximum
occupancy, and golf carts.
      SHORT TERM RENTALS. A dwelling unit, or any portion thereof, rented for
any period less than 30 days and used in a manner consistent with the
residential character of the dwelling. Tourist accommodations, including
hotels, motels, inns, and bed and breakfasts, are not considered SHORT TERM
RENTALS.
      TIME SHARES. “Vacation time sharing plans” as defined in S.C. Code § 27-
32-10(9) are not short-term rentals. However, any “vacation time sharing lease
plan” as defined in S.C. Code § 27-32-10(8) that is less than three years is
considered a short term rental. “Vacation multiple ownership interests” as
defined in S.C. Code § 27-32-250(1) are not short term rentals.
      TRANSFER OF PROPERTY. An assessable transfer of interest in real estate
triggering an appraisal and reassessment for taxation purposes as defined by
S.C. Code § 12-37-3150.
(Ord. 19-10, passed 9-28-10; Am Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 027-22,
passed 9-13-22; Am. Ord. 033-22, passed - -; Am. Ord. 003-23, passed 4-11-23;
Am. Ord. 001-24, passed 2-20-24; Am. Ord. 030-24, passed - -24)
§ 117.02 SHORT TERM RENTAL BUSINESS LICENSES.
   (A)   The city shall issue investment short term rental business licenses,
medical hardship investment short term rental licenses, owner-occupied short
term rental business licenses, and provisional short term rental business
licenses.
   (B)   There will be no limit on the number of medical hardship investment
short term rental licenses, owner-occupied short term rental business licenses
or provisional short term rental licenses issued.
   (C)   The maximum number of investment short term rental business licenses
issued shall be 800, henceforth referred to as the cap.
      (1)   No new investment short term rental business licenses shall be
issued unless the total number of investment short term rental business
licenses are below the cap unless the ISTR license is issued or after
inheritance as defined in §
117.01.
      (2)   Any investment short term rental business license which remains in
good standing may continue to be renewed annually, even if the number of
investment short term rental business licenses exceeds the cap.
      (3)   A wait list will be maintained by the city. New licenses shall be
offered to applicants according to procedures adopted by City Council.
   (D)   Non-transferable.
      (1)   Investment short term rental license wait list status terminates
upon transfer of property and is non-transferable.
      (2)   Investment short term rental licenses and medical hardship
investment short term rental business licenses terminate upon transfer of
property and are non-transferable.
      (3)   Investment short term rental business licenses terminate upon loss
of 6% property tax assessment status and are non-transferable.
      (4)   Owner-occupied short term rental business licenses terminate upon
transfer of property and are non- transferable.
      (5)   Owner-occupied short term rental business licenses terminate upon
loss of 4% property tax assessment status and are non-transferable.
      (6)   Medical hardship investment short term rental licenses are non-
transferable and terminate upon transfer of property; upon failure to recertify
hardship; 90 days after termination of qualifying lease or end of qualifying
care; or on the last day of the business license year or after 90 days,
whichever is later, upon death.
      (7)   Provisional short term rental business licenses terminate 90 days
after the date of issuance, or upon the completion of the last eligible rental
period if earlier than 90 days and are not transferrable.
(Ord. 033-22, passed - -; Am. Ord. 003-23, passed 4-11-23; Am. Ord. 001-24,
passed 2-20-24; Am. Ord. 030-24, passed - -24; Am. Ord. 005-25, passed 5-13-25)
§ 117.03 LICENSE, REGISTRATION, AND TAX REQUIREMENTS.
   Any owner advertising or operating a dwelling unit a short term rental must
maintain a current business license, comply with rental registration permit
requirements, and make proper payment of local, county, and state taxes.
   (A)   Business license. A business license must be obtained and renewed
annually thereafter by the timely submittal of a form and fee as established by
the city, for each dwelling unit or portion thereof advertised or offered as a
short term rental.
      (1)   (a)   No business license shall be issued for the rental of a
dwelling unit which is planned or under construction until a final certificate
of occupancy is issued for the unit except that:
         (b)   A license issued for the rental of an existing dwelling unit may
be renewed, for the rental of a replacement dwelling unit proposed or under
construction on the same site.
            1.   The replacement dwelling unit must be under the same
ownership, contain the same or fewer heated square feet, and contain the same
number or fewer bedrooms as the original structure.
            2.   The previously issued license must be maintained in good
standing and, if necessary, timely renewed during the entire period of
construction beginning with demolition and lasting through issuance of a final
certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   A business license for the rental of a dwelling unit shall only be
issued to owners of a dwelling unit. No business license for the rental of a
dwelling unit shall be issued to lessees of a dwelling unit.
      (3)   A designated local agent, or other person authorized in writing,
may apply for a short term rental business license on behalf of an owner. An
application for a business license submitted by a designated local agent or
other authorized person must provide the correct taxpayer identification and
contact information for the owner including name, address, phone number, email,
and any other information as required on the application form.
      (4)   Failure to maintain good standing shall be considered grounds for
denial of an application to renew and existing license.
         (a)   To remain in good standing, an application to renew an existing
license must be submitted no later than ten business days after the final day
of the previous business license year. The failure to timely submit an
application for the renewal of a short term rental license shall result in
denial of the application.
         (b)   To remain in good standing, an ISTR license must be used for at
least 28 nights annually except when affected by natural disaster, Act of God,
or critical repairs as defined in §
117.01.
   (B)   Rental registration permit. A rental registration permit must be
obtained and renewed annually thereafter by the timely submittal of a form and
fee as established by the city, for each dwelling unit or portion thereof
offered as a short term rental.
      (1)   Annual registration.  The rental registration permit application
shall be completed prior to June 1 of each year.
         (a)   Renewal of a previously issued rental registration permit. A
complete application to renew previously issued rental registration permits,
along with all documentation required by this chapter, shall be submitted prior
to June 1 of each year. Failure to timely submit a complete application by June
1 shall result in a violation and strike pursuant to §
117.03(D). However, applicants shall have a grace period of ten business days
after June 1 to submit a complete application. Failure to submit a rental
registration application within ten business days after June 1 shall result in
revocation of the license.
         (b)   Submittal of a new rental registration permit application. An
application for a new rental registration permit, along with all documentation
required by this chapter, must be submitted within 30 days of the issuance of a
new short term rental business license. There is no grace period for new rental
registration submittals. Failure to submit a rental registration application
within 30 days after the issuance of a new short term rental license shall
result in the revocation of the license.
         (c)   Review and correction of rental registration permit
applications. Upon review, the city shall notify applicants of facial and
obvious deficiencies or errors in the application submitted. Failure to submit
necessary corrections to an application within ten business days of
notification of deficiencies or errors shall result in denial of the
application and revocation of the associated license. Inaccuracies, mistakes,
or misrepresentations, whether intentional or not, in a rental registration
application discovered by the License Official after acceptance of a rental
registration permit shall result in revocation of the license.
      (2)   Annual fee. The fee for a rental registration permit shall be set
by City Council and shall be reviewed periodically. No refund shall be issued
for a rental registration permit should the registered dwelling unit cease to
be rented after issuance.
      (3)   A rental registration permit shall only be issued to owners of a
dwelling unit. No rental registration permit shall be issued to lessees of a
dwelling unit.
      (4)   A designated local agent, or other person authorized in writing,
may apply for a rental registration permit on behalf of an owner. An
application for a rental registration permit submitted by a designated local
agent or other authorized person must provide the correct taxpayer
identification and contact information for the owner, including name, address,
phone number, email, and any other information as required on the application
form.
      (5)   Change in registered information It is the duty of the owner to
notify the city of changes to the name, address, email address, or phone number
of the owner and designated agent listed on the rental registration permit.
There shall be no additional fee upon change of registration information except
that a new owner of a previously registered dwelling, upon successful
application for a new short term rental business license, shall re-register the
dwelling and pay the appropriate fee within 30 days of obtaining a license.
      (6)   Information required.  Application for rental registration permit
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The street address, Charleston County Parcel Identification
Number, and unit number, if applicable, of the dwelling unit;
         (b)   A property tax bill or other documentation from Charleston
County showing the current property tax classification;
         (c)   The number of bedrooms in the dwelling unit;
         (d)   The number of parking spaces provided on site as well as a site
plan showing the location of all on site parking spaces with at least one
onsite parking space per bedroom to be rented and the location of any onsite
septic system including the tank and drain field.
            (e)   The advertised and, if different, the allowable maximum
overnight occupancy of the dwelling unit, which shall not exceed two persons
per bedroom, plus two additional people per dwelling unit, except as allowed
under an exception under §
164.03-01(C);
         (f)   The type of wastewater system (septic or sewer). If the property
is serviced by a septic system, the owner must certify that the system is
protected from parking;
         (g)   The name, mailing address, business phone number, personal phone
number, email address and business address of the owner and designated local
agent;
         (h)   The physical address and email address where the owner and
designated local agent will accept notices required by this chapter, including
but limited to notice of citations and strikes, and acknowledgment that service
in person, by certified mail, by U.S. Mail and/or by email addresses will
constitute acceptable service of any citation, strike, or other notice required
by this chapter;
         (i)   Certification that the owner has read applicable city rental
rules and general regulations.
         (j)   Certification that a copy of the parking diagram provided to the
city as well as a summary of rental rules and general regulations provided by
the city.
         (k)   Certification that tenants listed on any rental agreement shall
receive a copy of the parking diagram provided to the city as well as a summary
of rental rules and general regulations provided by the city.
         (l)   Certification that the owner is aware that misrepresentation of
any required information on the application for a business license or rental
registration permit shall be considered grounds for the denial of the
application and subsequent revocation of the license or rental registration
permit;
         (m)   Certification that the owner is aware that short term rental
licensees shall be subject to strikes issued against the license when the
owner, designated local agent, occupant, or guest has been convicted of any
violation of the requirements of this chapter or other city ordinances related
to the use of the property as a short term rental, and that three strikes
during any rolling twelve-month period can result in suspension, revocation, or
non-renewal of the license;
         (n)   Certification by the owner verifying the presence of smoke
alarms, carbon monoxide monitors, fire extinguishers, the number of bedrooms,
the number of parking spaces, the provision of trash receptacles, the posting
of address and house numbers, and posting of rules and regulations, and, if
present, that sprinklers are operational;
         (o)   Certification that a dwelling unit licensed as an OSTR may not
be rented more than 72 nights annually;
         (p)   Proof of payment of local, county, and state taxes due on short
term rental accommodations; and
         (q)   The number of nights the unit was rented in the previous
business license year. Proof of the 28 night minimum rental requirement shall
be established through executed rental contracts and associated receipts for
payment.
         (r)   Documentation in the form of Charleston County property records
or a certificate of occupancy confirming the number of bedrooms offered for
rent.
      (7)   Designation of local agent.  The owner of a rental dwelling shall
name a designated local agent who shall be responsible for operating the rental
dwelling in compliance with the law. Official notices may be served on the
designated local agent and/or the owner, and any notice served on the
designated local agent shall be deemed to have been served upon the owner of
record.
         (a)   Nothing shall prevent the owner of rental property from
designating himself or herself as the designated local agent.
         (b)   Non owner designated local agents must be licensed by the State
of South Carolina as an attorney, real estate agent, broker in charge, or
property manager. Employees under the direct supervision of attorneys, real
estate agents, brokers in charge, or property managers licensed by the State of
South Carolina may be designated local agents.
         (c)   The designated local agent or owner shall be required to
physically respond to the site within 60 minutes upon notification from the
city in case of emergency or need by the city for entry into the property.
      (8)   More than one owner or ownership by entity.  Where more than one
person has an ownership interest in a short term rental, the required
information shall be provided for each owner. In those cases in which the owner
is not a person, the information required shall be provided for the
organization owning the rental dwelling, and for the president, general
manager, or other chief executive officer of the organization.
   (C)   Taxes. Owners of short term rentals are subject to local, county, and
state taxes, including, but not limited to, sales, use, and accommodations
taxes, and are liable for the payment thereof as established by state law and
the city code of ordinances.
   (D)   Notice, violations, strikes and penalties.
      (1)   (a)   Any notice required by this chapter, including but not
limited to notice of citations and strikes, may be served:
            1.   In person to the owner or agent;
            2.   By certified mail, return receipt requested, to the physical
address for the owner or agent provided on the rental registration permit
application;
            3.   By U.S. mail to the physical address for the owner or agent
provided on the rental registration permit application; or
            4.   By email to the email address for the owner or agent provided
on the rental registration permit application.
         (b)   Service by any of the methods above will constitute acceptable
service of any notice required by this chapter, including but not limited to
notice of citations and strikes.
      (2)   Violations. The following are considered violations of this
chapter. Citation and conviction associated with any violation listed below
shall result in a strike against the short term rental license issued for the
rental of a dwelling unit.
         (a)   Operating a short term rental without complying with the
requirements of this chapter and the city code of ordinances;
         (b)   Advertising a short-term rental without a valid business
license, rental registration permit, or accommodations tax account;
         (c)   Operating a short-term rental without a business license,
registration permit, and accommodations tax account;
         (d)   Advertising a short-term rental without listing the business
license number and rental registration permit number;
         (e)   Operating a short-term rental in such a manner that individual
rooms are rented at the same time under separate rental contracts;
         (f)   Advertising a short term rental as being available for more
overnight occupants, or containing more than the number of bedrooms, than have
been permitted pursuant to this chapter;
         (g)   Expanding the allowable occupancy of a short term rental without
obtaining a new permit;
         (h)   Advertising more short term rental units on a property than have
been permitted pursuant to this chapter;
         (i)   Advertising a property as a short term rental or “event house”
for events or parties;
         (j)   Offering a short-term rental in any zoning district for fewer
than two consecutive nights;
         (k)   Failure to post the business license number, rental registration
permit number, allowable overnight occupancy, and city approved summary of
rules and general regulations prominently within a rental unit;
         (l)   Failure to submit an accurate and complete annual rental
registration permit renewal application, along with all documentation required
by this chapter, on or before June 1. Failure to submit an accurate and
complete annual rental registration permit renewal application within ten
business days after June 1 shall result in revocation of the license.
Inaccuracies, mistakes, or misrepresentations, whether intentional or not, in a
rental registration application or business license application discovered by
the License Official after acceptance of a rental registration permit shall
result in revocation of the license;
         (m)   Failure of the designated local agent or owner listed on the
rental registration permit application to respond physically to the site within
60 minutes of notification from the city of an emergency;
         (n)   Failure to maintain, and provide to the city, any and all
information required in §
117.02(A);
         (o)   Failure to provide tenants listed on any rental agreement
information as required under §
117.02(B);
         (p)   Failure to inspect and repair a failed septic system as required
under §
55.07;
         (q)   Operating a business out of a short term rental or otherwise
using a short term rental for non-residential use except for allowable home
occupations, e-commerce, and remote work; and
         (r)   Renting a dwelling unit licensed as an OSTR for more than 72
nights annually.
         (s)   Operating a short term rental that has received three strikes
within any 12-month rolling period.
      (3)   Strikes. A license will be assessed a strike when the owner,
designated local agent, occupant, or guest of the property has been convicted
of any violation of the requirements of this chapter or any other city
ordinances related to the use of the property as a short-term rental.
         (a)   The number of strikes shall be reset upon a change of ownership
that results in no overlap with prior common ownership.
         (b)   For the purpose of determining the total number of strikes, each
strike issued upon conviction shall be considered effective upon the date of
citation resulting in conviction was issued. All convictions related to
offenses occurring within a single rental contract period shall be considered
one strike. In no case shall the number of strikes assessed against a license
exceed one per rental contract period.
         (c)   No strike shall be issued for the conviction of an offense which
occurs beyond the premises of a short term rental.
         (d)   The city will provide notice of each strike to the registered
agent and owner of the property as follows:
            1.   First strike: a description of the violation and resultant
conviction, and a warning that progressive action shall be taken by the city in
the case of further violations.
            2.   Second strike: a description of the violation and resultant
conviction, and a warning that the city shall initiate suspension and
revocation of the rental license in the case of further violations.
            3.   Third strike: a description of the violation and resultant
conviction and notice of the initiation of procedures to suspend and revoke the
license.
      (4)   Penalties. No permit may be issued or approved unless the
requirements of this chapter, or any ordinance adopted pursuant to it, are
complied with. A violation of this chapter may result in the following
penalties:
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500
upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Punishment for violations shall not relieve the offender of liability for
delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs provided for in this chapter.
         (b)   Denial, revocation, suspension, or non-renewal of a business
license pursuant to §§
110.14 or
110.15 and in accordance with the appeal procedures set forth in §
110.16.
         (c)   Revocation, suspension, or non-renewal of the short term rental
business license, in accordance with the appeal procedures set forth in §
110.16, for three strikes during a rolling twelve-month period.
            1.   The city will provide notice of each strike to the registered
agent of the property as follows:
               A.   First strike: a description of the violation and resultant
conviction, and a warning that progressive action shall be taken by the city in
the case of further violations.
               B.   Second strike: a description of the violation and resultant
conviction, and a warning that the city shall initiate revocation of the rental
license in the case of further violations.
               C.   Third strike: a description of the violation and resultant
conviction, and notice of the initiation of license revocation procedures.
         (d)   Any violation of a noise ordinance that occurs on the property
will result in a notice that the owner is strongly encouraged to install noise
monitoring.
(Ord. 19-10, passed 9-28-10; Am Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 32-19,
passed 11-12-19; Am. Ord. 033-21, passed 11-9-21; Am. Ord. 027-22, passed 9-13-
22; Am. Ord. 001-24, passed 2-20-24; Am. Ord. 030-24, passed - -24; Am. Ord.
005-25, passed 5-13-25)
§ 117.04 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SHORT TERM RENTALS.
   (A)   All owners and/or designated local agents of short term rentals shall
be required to keep the following for city inspection and copying for a period
of one year:
      (1)   The name, address, and other contact information of each signatory
on the rental agreement;
      (2)   A copy of the city approved rental rules and general regulations
summary, signed by each signatory of the rental agreement.
      (3)   A document signed by the owner and/or agent responsible for renting
the dwelling unit, certifying the number of persons intended to occupy the
dwelling unit.
      (4)   The information required by this section shall be updated by the
owner and/or agent for each rental to different tenants or occupants.
   (B)   The owner and/or agent shall provide the following for each person
signing a rental agreement as a responsible party for a short term rental:
      (1)   The address of the short term rental and emergency contact numbers;
      (2)   The name and contact information for the owner or designated local
agent; and
      (3)   A copy of the parking diagram provided to the city as well as a
copy of the city's rental rules and general regulations.
   (C)   Individual rooms located in any dwelling unit may not be advertised or
used for short term rental under separate contracts at the same time.
   (D)   Events held on any property on which a dwelling unit licensed for
short term rental is located shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Must follow any applicable special event notification rules
established by the city in §
153.05 for events on private property;
      (2)   Shall be subject to all applicable provisions of the noise
regulations in §§
131.30 through
131.35; and
      (3)   May not feature mobile food trucks, carts, or other outdoor
retailers offering products for sale or in exchange for donations. Caterers and
other prepaid food providers are allowed provided no money is exchanged on
site. All vendors must have a valid Folly Beach business license; and
      (4)   May not exceed 25 people. The limit of 25 people applies regardless
of the number of short term rental dwelling units on the property; and
      (5)   May not include outdoor amplified music, including bands, deejays,
music broadcast through speakers and electronic musical instruments.
      (6)   These requirements do not apply to events hosted by the owner of
the property provided that the owner is on site for the duration the event, the
owner has completed the required special event notification, and no
compensation has been paid for the event or the use of the property.
   (E)   One on site parking space must be provided for each bedroom being
rented. This requirement shall not apply to:
      (1)   New and renewed permits issued to dwelling units located in a
multi-family housing development.
      (2)   New and renewed permits issued to dwelling units approved by the
city for resident only parking signs in the right-of-way.
      (3)   Renewed permits issued to dwelling units with a valid business
license and rental registration permit before September 13, 2022. Rental
registration permits for such properties may be renewed without the required
parking until such time as the ownership of the property changes.
   (F)   All parts of any septic system including the tank and the drain field
must be protected from parking.
(Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 027-22, passed 9-13-22; Am. Ord. 030-24,
passed - -24)
CHAPTER 118: COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
118.01   Purpose, applicability, and definitions
   
118.02   Commercial activity on public property generally
   
118.03   Commercial activity on the public beach
   
118.04   Franchise agreements on public property
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY, AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate commercial
activity on public property within the city including streets, sidewalks,
rights-of-way, parks, playgrounds, and the public beach.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Advertising a business of any kind; or selling,
renting, or delivering goods or services.
(Ord. 29-19, passed 9-10-19)
§118.02 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY ON PUBLIC PROPERTY GENERALLY.
   (A)   No commercial activity shall occur on a street, sidewalk, right-of-
way, beach, or other public property or interfere with the public's use of such
public property unless the business has a franchise from the city, is approved
by City Council, or is being operated as part of a special event regulated by
Chapter 153.
   (B)   Concessions operations provided by a vendor operating under a
franchise agreement with the city are allowed at Ocean Park (3rd Street West).
      (1)   No products or services shall be sold or rented by concessions
vendors unless expressly allowed under an approved franchise agreement.
      (2)   Concessions operations may not operate beyond the hours identified
in an approved franchise agreement.
      (3)   Concessions operations may not operate beyond the area described in
an approved franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-19, passed 9-10-19; Am. Ord. 013-25, passed 9-9-25) Penalty, see §
118.99
§118.03 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY ON THE PUBLIC BEACH.
   (A)   There are hereby designated two sections of the public beach, Section
One and Section Two. No commercial activity is permitted on the public beach
except as expressly provided for herein.
      (1)   Section One is the area between 3rd West and 3rd East.
      (2)   Section Two is the balance of the public beach.
   (B)   Beach chair and umbrella rentals provided by vendors operating under a
franchise agreement with the city are allowed in Section One and Section Two.
      (1)   No more than two beach chair and umbrella rental franchises shall
be allowed in each Section.
      (2)   No other goods except beach chairs and umbrellas shall be delivered
to or transported on the public beach.
      (3)   Each vendor may transport beach chairs and umbrellas by motorized
vehicles on public property in Section One and Section Two.
         (a)   Each vendor may only operate two motorized vehicles in either
section at the same time.
         (b)   From May 1 to October 31, no motorized vehicle may operate prior
to the completion of turtle monitoring and the issuance of an all-clear notice
from the city or its designee.
         (c)   In Section Two, chairs and umbrellas must be transported by
accessing the public beach at the nearest drivable beach access.
         (d)   All drivers and supervisors employed by the vendor must complete
proof of beach
driving safety certification.
         (e)   All franchise holders operating motorized vehicles on the public
beach must provide documentation of liability naming the city as an additional
insured.
      (4)   All beach chairs and umbrellas, except for approved wooden lounge
chairs located in Section One, shall be removed from the public beach prior so
sundown.
      (5)   (a)   Groupings of chairs and umbrellas provided by franchise
holders may not exceed a maximum of 30 feet width or depth, must be spaced at
least 30 feet from other groupings of chairs or umbrellas, and may not be
located within 30 feet of the entrance to a public beach access.
         (b)   Beach chair and umbrella franchise holders may not advertise on
the beach except that:
            1.   Each franchise holder may have two tents in Section One, no
larger than ten feet by ten feet, one tent may include the provider's name,
logo, and contact information. In Section Two, franchise holders may use a
maximum of two unmarked tents, no larger than ten feet by ten feet, to support
their operations. All tents must be removed from the public beach prior to
sundown.
            2.   Each vendor may use one sandwich-style board to advertise
their business on the
beach.
   (C)   Surf and paddle board lessons and camps are allowed in Section Two.
      (1)   Surf and paddle board lessons are limited to a maximum of five
students. Lessons do not require a franchise agreement but must obtain
permission from City Council and a business license annually. Permission from
City Council will only be considered if proof of the safety standards and
certifications of division (C)(3) is presented to Council. Lessons must occur
outside of Section One and the washout (1500 block) and do not have exclusive
right to any section of the beach.
      (2)   Surf and paddle board camps involving more than five students must
have a franchise agreement with the city. There will be a maximum of four surf
camp franchises per year on the beach and two paddle board camp franchises,
with location determined by city staff in coordination with franchise holder.
Camps must not exceed 40 students and can only operate between the hours of 8:
00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Camps must comply with the safety standards and
certifications of division (C)(3).
      (3)   All surf and paddle board lessons and camps must adhere to the
following safety standards:
         (a)   Lessons and camps must have one instructor for every five
students.
         (b)   At least one instructor per ten students must be lifeguard, CPR,
and first aid certified, with current certifications on file with the city.
This certification requirement also applies to lessons, classes, and camps
having less than ten students. There must be a first aid kit on site.
         (c)   Each provider must carry liability insurance of at least
$1,000,000 that names the city as an additional insured.
         (d)   Lesson and camp providers may not advertise on the beach, but
franchise holders approved providers may have a tent no larger than ten feet by
ten feet that includes the provider's name, logo, and contact information.
         (e)   Failure to adhere to these standards will result in revocation
of the franchise agreement and business license.
   (D)   Commercial activity related to weddings and photography is allowed in
Section One and Section Two and does not require a franchise agreement or City
Council approval, but does require a current business license.
      (1)   Wedding and photography-related activities shall not interfere with
the activities of approved franchisees or the public's use of the beach or
beach access.
      (2)   Any items delivered to the public beach for a wedding or other
event (such as tents pulpits, chairs, plants, arbors, or decorations) must be
delivered from the nearest public walkover, unless the event has permission to
use a private beach access. In no case shall these items be transported on the
public beach by motorized vehicles.
      (3)   All items must be removed before sunset, before the tide reaches
them, or no later than two hours after the conclusion of the event, whichever
is sooner.
   (E)   City Council may approve other lessons, classes, camps, events and
camps organized by non- profits, or additional commercial activities in Section
One or Section Two.
   (F)   A business license and all franchise fees as denoted in §
118.04 shall be paid and obtained by the business license application deadline
as specified in §
110.04(C) before any commercial activity is conducted on the public beach.
(Ord. 29-19, passed 9-10-19; Am. Ord. 09-21, passed 4-13-21; Am. Ord. 013-25,
passed 9-9-25) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   City Council is authorized to enter into franchise agreements with
vendors on public property, including the public beach, pursuant to S.C. Code
5-7- 30 which allows municipalities and counties to franchise public property
to private concerns.
      (1)   The minimum bid amount shall be determined by City Council prior to
publication of the request for bids. City Council may also require vendors to
pay a percentage of their gross proceeds in addition to the amounts bid. The
award of a franchise to a vendor shall be determined through the competitive
bid process using the criteria set forth in §
36.17.
      (2)   Each approved vendors shall enter into a five-year franchise
agreement with the city, with City Council having the option to extend the
franchise annually for up to an additional two years with an extension fee and/
or re-negotiated franchise fee as set by Council if the extension is in the
best interest of the city. The city shall conduct a thorough review of each
franchise after the third year of the initial five-year term.
      (3)   Franchise agreements are contracts between the city and vendors.
Once the terms and conditions have been negotiated, the agreements shall be
placed on the City Council agenda for approval. Upon approval, the Mayor or
Mayor's designee shall execute the agreements on behalf of the city.
      (4)   All vendors shall be restricted operational allowances specified in
the franchise agreements including but not limited to products and services
offered, location, operating hours, and limits on the number of participants.
      (5)   Business types may not be combined for the bidding process. A
vendor, however, may bid on two of the same types of franchise in the same area
of public property.
      (6)   Vendors shall be responsible for clearing trash, debris, and any
equipment from assigned areas as more fully set forth in the franchise
agreement daily. No storage of any item is allowed on the public beach or other
public property absent an agreement approved by City Council.
      (7)   Franchise agreements shall not be sold or assigned to another
vendor.
      (8)   All vendors awarded a franchise agreement shall be subject to an
audit in the final business license year of the awarded term. Vendors maybe
subject to an audit at any time during the franchise term.
   (B)   Any violation of the above or violation of terms and conditions of the
franchise agreement may result in the revocation of the franchise agreement. To
initiate revocation, the City License Official shall send a written notice of
the revocation to the vendor by registered or certified mail, and by email to
the address registered with the city. The vendor shall have ten business days
from the receipt of said notice to submit a written Notice of Appeal to the
Municipal Clerk of Council.
   (C)   Upon timely receipt of a notice of appeal of a revocation of a
franchise agreement, a hearing shall be held by the Council or its designee
within 30 days after receipt of a request for appeal following the procedures
of §
110.16(C).
(Ord. 29-19, passed 9-10-19; Am. Ord. 013-25, passed 9-9-25) Penalty, see §
118.99
§118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 29-19, passed 9-10-19)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Bail
§ 130.01 BAIL.
   (A)   When any person is apprehended by a police officer upon a charge
violating any traffic or other law, the enforcement of which by an officer is
authorized by a law, the person so being charged upon being served with the
official summons issued by the arresting officer, in lieu of being brought
before the proper recorder or other judicial officer to enter into a formal
recognizance or make direct the deposit of a proper sum of money in lieu of a
recognizance or incarceration, may deposit with the apprehending officer a sum
of money as bail, not less than the minimum nor more than the maximum fine, but
in no case to exceed $200, to be in due course turned over to the judicial
officer as money for bail, in lieu of entering into a recognizance for his or
her appearance for trial as set in aforesaid summons or being incarcerated by
the arresting officer and held for further action by the appropriate judicial
officer.
   (B)   A receipt for the sum so deposited shall be given to the person by the
arresting officer. Upon receipt of the fixed sum of money, the officer may
release the person charged.
(`95 Code, § 9-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, S.C. Code § 23-6-150
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Simple assault
   
131.02   City officers and employees; interference; resisting arrest
   
131.03   Blackjacks and billies; possession and sales
   
131.04   Fireworks
   
131.05   Firearms; discharge
   
131.06   Slingshots, guns and the like; shooting prohibited
   
131.07   Unlawful assembly
   
131.08   Loitering
Disorderly Conduct
   
131.20   Definitions
   
131.21   Prohibited behavior
   
131.22   Exemption
Noise
   
131.30   Definition of noise
   
131.31   Noise from short term rental properties
   
131.32   Noise prohibited; examples
   
131.33   Exceptions
   
131.34   Special permits for the production of noise where otherwise prohibited
   
131.35   Penalties and enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 SIMPLE ASSAULT.
   Anyone who shall commit assault upon another person in a manner as not to
inflict any bodily damage shall be guilty of simple assault.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 131.02 CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; INTERFERENCE; RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, resist, hinder,
oppose, molest or interfere with any employee of the city or of any department
or board thereof, or any officer or employee of the Public Safety Department,
in the discharge of official duties.
   (B)   Public access to, and video and audio recording on, city property.
      (1)   Purpose. The City of Folly Beach is committed to protecting the
rights of citizens under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution,
while implementing policies and procedures that protect the health, safety,
welfare, and personal privacy of employees and the public. This section is
intended to delineate those portions of city property (as defined herein) that
are accessible to and observable by the general public from those portions that
are accessible on a limited basis, establish rules of conduct that are
applicable to all city property, and specify procedures for employees who
encounter those who wish to access city property for observational purposes.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CITY PROPERTY. Any real property owned by the city or in which the
city has a property interest or property management responsibility.
         LIMITED ACCESS PROPERTY. Any designated area on city property that is
not generally
open to or occupied by the public; is open to or occupied by the public on only
a limited, as-needed, or by-invitation basis; or is in an area generally open
to or occupied by the public in close proximity to where private third parties
conduct business with city employees. Limited access areas may be designated by
doors, physical barriers, building design features, signage, reception desks or
stations, stanchions, ropes, fencing, bollards, or other visible indications.
The lack of visible indications shall not prevent the city from considering or
treating an area as a limited access area. The city shall retain the right to
verbally instruct third parties that an area is a limited access area. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, limited access areas include, but are
not limited to, the following:
            1.   Employee offices.
            2.   Employee workspaces including copy rooms, mailrooms, and break
areas.
            3.   Employee parking lots, storage areas, access points, or other
outside areas marked for use by city employees or vehicles only.
            4.   Areas in close proximity to places, stations, desks, counters,
or teller windows at which private third parties conduct business with city
employees.
            5.   Hallways, staircases, restrooms, elevators, and other areas by
purpose or function restricted to limited or transitory occupancy or providing
access solely to other limited access areas.
            6.   Maintenance, storage, and warehousing facilities.
            7.   Public works and public safety buildings, except for any
designated waiting or reception areas therein.
            8.   Water, sewer, and other public utility facilities.
         CITY OFFICIAL.
            1.   Any city law enforcement officer.
            2.   Any person providing security services in any city property
pursuant to contract with the city or with any person, firm, or corporation
managing a city property on the city’s behalf.
            3.   With respect to any building, facility, area, or space
assigned to a city department, division, or agency, the director or manager of
such department, division, or agency, or any person that such official
specifically designates in writing.
            4.   The Mayor, City Administrator, Clerk of Council, or any person
that such officials specifically designate in writing.
         PUBLIC AREA. Any area on city property that is generally open to
general public access and occupancy that is not otherwise designated as a
limited access area.
         RULES OF CONDUCT. The specific guidelines set forth in this section:
      (3)   Rules of conduct applicable to all city property. The following
rules of conduct shall apply at all city property, including both public areas
and limited access areas:
         (a)   No person shall enter, attempt to enter, or remain in any areas
of city property for any purpose other than to conduct legitimate business with
city offices or tenants located at city property, to enjoy publicly accessible
amenities in public areas, to lawfully assemble for social or public
interaction in public areas specifically designated for such assembly, or to
exercise other constitutionally protected rights. The appropriate city
officials may adopt specific policies with respect to city property under their
custody and control to manage conditions for use of such city property
including without limitation to establish hours and terms of use, reservation
protocols, use and user priority, and fees for use.
         (b)   No person shall engage in any activity on city property that
would constitute a violation of federal, state, or local law or regulation.
         (c)   No person shall engage in activity that disrupts or interferes
with the normal operation or administration of city business at city property,
lawful use by city employees and authorized users at city property, or city-
permitted activities.
         (d)   No person shall stalk, harass, threaten, intimidate, or
otherwise compromise the wellbeing and safety of city employees or private
third parties lawfully using city property. Photography, audio recording, or
video recording does not, in and of itself, violate this rule of conduct.
Likewise, conduct that would otherwise violate this rule of conduct shall not
be permitted merely because the conduct involves photography, audio recording,
or video recording.
         (e)   No person shall interfere or obstruct the free passage of city
employees or authorized third patties in or on city property, including without
limitation by standing in, blocking access to, or occupying areas for purposes
of photography, audio recording, or video recording.
         (f)   No person shall photograph, audio record, or video record in
such a manner that would allow capture of, access to, or disclosure of private,
personal, confidential, sensitive, or privileged information of private third
parties. The city may enforce this rule of conduct by imposing minimum standing
or separation distances from areas, stations, desks, counters, or teller
windows at which private third parties conduct business with city employees.
      (4)   Rules of conduct applicable to limited access areas. The following
rules of conduct shall apply at all limited access areas:
         (a)   Limited access areas shall be accessible only to the following:
(i) employees, elected officials, and appointed officials of the city; and (ii)
private parties but only on a limited, as-needed, or by-invitation basis, to
include those private parties accessing a limited access area for the express
purpose of conducting business with city employees.
         (b)   Photography, audio recording, and video recording is prohibited
in limited access areas, except as follows: (i) any city official may authorize
audio or video recording or photography in limited access areas, for good cause
shown, with the consent of all parties to be recorded or photographed, provided
that any city official may impose appropriate and reasonable conditions on the
recording or photography to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of confidential
information; and (ii) audio and video recording and photography may be
permitted in limited access areas when specifically authorized by applicable
law or agreements.
         (c)   No person shall photograph, audio record, or video record any
private third party lawfully entering into, using, or occupying a limited
access area without the express consent of such third party.
      (5)   Exclusion. If a person violates these rules of conduct while in or
upon city property, any city official may eject and direct such person to leave
city property for a period of up to 24 hours. It shall not be necessary for
such city official to allege any crime or other violation of applicable law
other than these rules of conduct to support such notice of exclusion; provided
that violation of such notice of exclusion may be deemed a trespass under
applicable law. The notice of exclusion shall be in writing, given to the
person excluded and signed by the city official. It shall specify the dates and
places of exclusion and shall contain a warning of consequences for failure to
comply with the notice of exclusion.
      (6)   Security procedures.
         (a)   Any person may photograph, film, or record audio of any public
area. Any such activity should be reported to a city official, preferably a law
enforcement officer if possible.
         (b)   City employees should refrain from engaging with photographers
and videographers wherever possible. City employees should monitor
photographers or videographers on city property but should refrain from
engaging them unless they violate any rule of conduct. If engagement is
necessary, every effort should be made to respond calmly without escalating the
encounter.
         (c)   A city employee who does not wish to be photographed or recorded
may retire to a limited access area.
         (d)   City employees are not required to respond to questions or
demands from any photographer or videographer and should refrain from doing so
if possible.
         (e)   City employees may invite a private third-party conducting
business with the city and who do not wish to be photographed or filmed to
retire to a more private limited access area in order to complete any business
or transaction.
         (f)   City law enforcement officers may approach photographers and
videographers upon a complaint from a member of the public or city employees
that the activity is suspicious or based upon their own observation that the
activity is suspicious or inconsistent with this policy. This policy neither
limits nor expands the authority of city law enforcement officers to initiate
and pursue investigations, to perform pat downs or frisks based upon reasonable
suspicion, or to conduct searches based upon probable cause in accordance with
legal authority. Photography, audio recording, or video recording does not, in
and of itself, rise to the level of reasonable suspicion or probable cause.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist arrest, or if under
arrest to refuse to accompany the arresting officer or to endeavor to force the
officer to drag, pull or carry him or her to the place of destination.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-2)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly fail or
refuse to stop when signaled, hailed or commanded to stop by a police officer.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-8) (Ord. 021-23, passed 1-10-24) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 131.03 BLACKJACKS AND BILLIES; POSSESSION AND SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, carry, display, sell or offer
for sale, exchange or give as a gift, any instrument or weapon of the kind
commonly known as a blackjack, slugshot, billy, sand club, sandbag, metal
knuckles or bludgeon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry concealed about his or
her person any ice pick, razor, knife, dagger or stiletto, the blade of which
exceeds three inches in length.
   (C)   Any weapon seized upon this section is subject to confiscation.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying certain concealed weapons, see S.C. Code § 16-23-460
§ 131.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or otherwise distribute fireworks within
the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to shoot or discharge fireworks within the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use fireworks in public
displays or exhibits unless the person desiring to give them shall have first
obtained written approval therefor from the City Council.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 FIREARMS; DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No person shall fire any gun, pistol or other firearm within the city.
This section shall not apply to the owners or guest of owners hunting on Black
Island or Long Island with a shotgun as long as Long Island and Black Island
exist in an undeveloped state.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A police or other law enforcement officials while in the exercise
and discharge of their duties;
      (2)   Nor shall anything contained herein be construed to abrogate or
abridge the right of defense of person and/or property; and
      (3)   The annual “turkey shoot” fund raiser for the Folly Beach Fire
Department, limited to shotguns and target shot, or any theatrical or like
performance where the non-functioning weapons and blanks may be permitted,
however, each such event shall be approved by the Director of Public Safety as
to time, location and duration, for safety of participants, others in the city
and property.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-5) (Am. Ord. 88-19, passed 12-20-88; Am. Ord. 18-09, passed 9-
22-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 SLINGSHOTS, GUNS AND THE LIKE; SHOOTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall shoot any slingshot, spring, air- or gas-operated gun which
shoots slugs, pellets, bullets, stones or other missiles within the city.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for the host or person in charge of any property to
allow a party, gathering or assembly that exhibits any of the following: loud
music; loud or boisterous voices causing complaints by neighbors; alcohol
possession or consumption by persons under 21 years of age; illicit drug use or
possession; blocking streets or driveways by vehicles or people; obscene or
profane language or gestures. The person sponsoring, hosting, renting or
organizing the assembly may be charged with a violation of this section and be
subjected to a fine or imprisonment.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-9) (Am. Ord. 21-99, passed 6- -99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 LOITERING.
   (A)   Loitering. No person shall loiter or prowl in a place, at a time or in
a manner not usual for law abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant
alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such alarm is
warranted is the fact that the actor takes flight upon appearance of a police
officer, refuses to identify himself or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself
or any object.
      (1)   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstances makes it
impracticable, a police officer, prior to any arrest for an offense under this
division, shall afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting him to identify himself and explain his
presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of violating this division
if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence or if it
appears at trial that the explanation given was true and would have dispelled
the alarm and disclosed the lawful purpose.
      (2)   The provisions of the two preceding sentences are applicable to
divisions (A)(1) and (2) of this section and each subsequent divisions (B)
through (H) herein.
   (B)   Dwelling areas. No person shall hide, wait or otherwise loiter in the
vicinity of any private dwelling house, apartment building or any other place
of residence with the unlawful intent to watch, gaze or look upon the occupants
therein in a clandestine manner.
   (C)   Public restrooms. No person shall loiter in or about any toilet open
to the public for the purpose of engaging in or soliciting any lewd or
lascivious or any unlawful act.
   (D)   Parks and public grounds. No person shall loiter in or about any
school, park or public place at or near which children or students attend or
normally congregate. As used in this division, "loiter" means to delay, to
linger or to idle in or about any said school, park or public place without a
lawful purpose for being present.
   (E)   Buildings. No person shall loiter or lodge in any building, structure
or place, whether public or private, without the permission of the owner or
person entitled to possession or in control thereof.
   (F)   Restaurants, bars. No person shall loiter in or about a restaurant,
tavern or other building open to the public. As used in this division, "loiter"
means to, without just cause, remain in a restaurant, tavern or public building
or to remain upon the property immediately adjacent thereto after being asked
to leave by the owner or person entitled to possession or in control thereof.
   (G)   Parking lots. No person shall loiter in or upon any public parking
surface lot or public parking structure, either on foot or in or upon any
conveyance being driven or parked thereon, without the permission of the owner
or person entitled to possession or in control thereof. As used in this
section:
      (1)   Public parking surface lot means five or more ground level parking
spaces, or any portion thereof, not located in a structure, upon which
automobiles or motor vehicles may be parked, stored, housed or kept, and open
to public use with or without charge.
   (H)   Private or public residential properly. No person shall loiter in or
on private or public residential property in residential neighborhoods. As used
in this division, "loiter" means to, without just cause, linger, remain in or
on private or public residential property, or to remain upon the property
immediately adjacent thereto after being asked to leave by the owner or person
entitled to possession or in control thereof, or where "No Loitering" signs are
posted.
   (I)   Requirements of identification. A person being asked for
identification pursuant to this section shall provide the police officer with
his name and address either verbally or by providing the officer with written
evidence of the person's name and address, including but not limited to a
driver's license or picture identification.
   (J)   Penalty; continuing violations. Any person who is convicted of any
violation of this section, the court before whom an offender shall be tried may
sentence him to pay a fine not exceeding the maximum fine permitted by law or
serve a term not exceeding 30 days in jail, or both. Each day any violation of
this section shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (K)   Court order on jurisdictional limits. In addition to the penalty that
may be imposed pursuant to division (J) above, any person who is arrested for
and/or convicted of violating any provision of this section may be subject to
an order of the court which shall impose a jurisdictional limit on said person
prohibiting his presence in a specific geographic area of the city. Failure to
comply with the court order shall constitute a violation of the court order and
shall result in the following:
      (1)   In the case of a bond where jurisdictional limits have been
imposed, the bond may be revoked and the person shall be incarcerated until
trial; and/or
      (2)   In the case of a sentence where jurisdictional limits have been
imposed, the suspended sentence may be revoked and the person shall be
incarcerated until he has served the original sentence imposed by the court
without any portion thereof suspended.
(Ord. 24-16, passed 8-9-16)
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 131.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INCITE A RIOT. Urging or instigating other persons to riot, but shall not be
deemed to mean the mere oral or written:
      (1)   Advocacy of ideas; or
      (2)   Expression of belief, not involving advocacy of any act or acts of
violence or assertion of or the right to commit, any act or acts.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access and a right
to resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose, but does not
necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall
also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern
or other place of business and also public grounds, areas or parks.
   RIOT. A public disturbance involving:
      (1)   An act or acts of violence by one or more persons part of an
assemblage of three or more persons, which act or acts shall constitute a clear
and present danger of, or shall result in, damage or injury to the property of
any other person or to the person of any other individual; or
      (2)   A threat or threats of the commission of an act or acts of violence
by one or more persons having, individually or collectively, the ability of
immediate execution of the threat or threats, where the performance of the
threatened act or acts of violence would constitute a clear and present danger
of, or would result in, damage or injury to the property of any other person or
to the person of any other individual.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-21) (Ord. 82-12, passed 7-27-82)
§ 131.21 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the purpose of
causing public danger, alarm, disorder, nuisance or if his or her conduct is
likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, he or she willfully
does any of the following acts in a public place:
   (A)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby that other is placed in danger of his or her life, limb or health;
   (B)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another
whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or
damaged;
   (C)   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so
as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
   (D)   Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of
causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
   (E)   Congregates with others or in crowds for unlawful purposes, as defined
by federal or state law, this code or other ordinances;
   (F)   Interferes with another’s pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of
violence, angry threats or abusive conduct;
   (G)   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear the public way when
ordered to do so by the city police or other lawful authority known to be such;
   (H)   Is in a public place under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or
drug in a condition as to be unable to exercise care for his or her own safety
or the safety of others;
   (I)   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by city police or any
other authorized official of the city, when known to be an official;
   (J)   Incites, attempts to incite or is involved in attempting to incite a
riot;
   (K)   Addresses abusive language or threats to any member of the Public
Safety Department, any other authorized official of the city who is engaged in
the lawful performance of his or her duties, or any other person when the words
have a direct tendency to cause acts of violence; (Words merely causing
displeasure, annoyance or resentment are not prohibited.)
   (L)   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive
condition;
   (M)   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous and unreasonable noise
or disturbance to the annoyance of any other persons nearby, or near to any
public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square or common, whereby the
public peace is broken or disturbed, or the traveling public annoyed;
   (N)   Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose or
with the intent to engage in gaming;
   (O)   Frequents any public place with intent to obtain money from other
persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
   (P)   Assembles with any person for the purpose of engaging in any
fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or
from any person in the city, or who shall aid or abet therein;
   (Q)   Is at any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of
alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or
tolerated;
   (R)   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer, when
known to be an official, where one or more persons are committing acts of
disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and the public health and safety
is imminently threatened; and
   (S)   Uses abusive or obscene language or makes an obscene gesture.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-22) (Ord. 82-12, passed 7-27-82) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.22 EXEMPTION.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to suppress the right to lawful
assembly, picketing, public speaking or other lawful means or expressing public
opinion not in contravention of other laws.
(`95 Code, § 9-2-23) (Ord. 82-12, passed 7-27-82)
NOISE
§ 131.30 DEFINITION OF NOISE.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply:
   NOISE. Any sound that annoys or disturbs a person who hears it.
(Ord. 07-15, as amended, passed 7-14-15)
§ 131.31 NOISE FROM SHORT TERM RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   Owners of short term rentals shall ensure that a city-prepared notice about
the noise ordinance is posted in houses that are rented for 30 days or less and
is included in all rental contracts.
(Ord. 07-15, as amended, passed 7-14-15; Am Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18)
§ 131.32 NOISE PROHIBITED; EXAMPLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, assist in creating, permit,
continue, or permit the continuance of any noise in the city except as
expressly allowed in this subchapter or another ordinance. The following are
declared to be noises in violation of this section, but such acts shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Musicians, musical instruments, and other sound-producing devices.
Noise from any musician, musical instrument, television, radio, CD player, or
other device or apparatus making or reproducing musical or other sounds:
      (1)   That disturbs the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person in any
dwelling or other type of residence, except for those residences in the
Downtown Commercial and Island Commercial districts, or
      (2)   That disturbs the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person in any
dwelling or other type of residence, including those residences in the Downtown
Commercial and Island Commercial districts, after 10:00 p.m. or before 10:00
a.m. on Sunday through Thursday or after 11:00 p.m. or before 10:00 a.m. on
Friday and Saturday (and Sunday if the following Monday is a recognized
holiday).
   (B)   Loudspeakers, etc. Noise from loudspeakers, sound trucks, amplifiers,
or other mechanical or electrical devices for increasing the volume of sound
that are used upon the streets, sidewalks, or other public property in the
city.
   (C)   Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing at any time or place that annoys or disturbs the quiet, comfort, or
repose of any person.
   (D)   Hawking or peddling. Making any noise on a public street or in such
proximity thereto as to be audible on such street by any kind of crying,
calling, or shouting or by means of any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper,
horn, hammer, drum, musical instrument, or other device for the purpose of
attracting attention or of inviting patronage of any persons to any business
whatsoever. It is the express intention of this division to prohibit hawking,
peddling, soliciting, or using other noises to attract attention to a business.
   (E)   Domestic animal noise. Barking or other noise made by a dog or other
domestic animal intermittently or continuously for more than 15 minutes.
   (F)   Mechanical noise. Noise from the operation of any machinery or
mechanical devices, including but not limited to air conditioning equipment,
pool or spa equipment, and power generators if such operation produces
sustained sound that exceeds 65 decibels above background noise when measured
from a street, right-of-way, or neighboring property line.
   (G)   Blowing horns. Blowing or causing to be blown within the city any
steam whistle, electric horn, or other signaling or warning device, except as
required by law or as an alarm signal in case of fire, collision, or other
imminent danger.
   (H)   Engine exhaust noise. Noise caused by the engine exhaust of any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, boat, steam engine, or stationary internal combustion
engine except through a muffler or other device that effectively muffles noise
therefrom.
   (I)   Unusual noise from a vehicle. Unusual noise from an automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle that is caused by the vehicle being altered or in
disrepair or by the manner in which it is loaded or used.
   (J)   Noise on the beach. Noise on the beach that is audible more than 100
feet from the source of the noise, including noise coming from residential or
business properties as well as from noise sources on the beach.
   (K)   Noise from watercraft. Music or other noise emanating from a
watercraft in a marina or on the Folly River, other than engine noise, that is
audible more than 100 feet from the vessel.
(Ord. 07-15, as amended, passed 7-14-15)
§ 131.33 EXCEPTIONS.
The provisions of the this subchapter regarding noise shall not apply to the
sounds from the following sources or causes:
   (A)   Special permits as approved by City Council pursuant to §
131.35.
   (B)   Special events that have been approved by City Council.
   (C)   Maintenance and repair of public utilities.
   (D)   Public safety activities, including training.
   (E)   Any city vehicle engaged in city business.
   (F)   Public works projects contracted for or by a governmental agency
including, but not limited to beach renourishments, utility construction, and
road construction.
   (G)   Operation of any regulated utility between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
Monday through Friday or during an emergency.
   (H)   Construction projects with valid permits between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. on Monday through Friday.
   (I)   Other work performed for compensation by licensed contractors such as
landscaping and pressure washing between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Monday
through Friday.
   (J)   Activities performed or supervised by the property owner where no
compensation is paid such as hobbies, landscaping, lawn care, repairs,
maintenance, pressure washing, and vacuuming between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 07-15, as amended, passed 7-14-15; Am. Ord. 002-24, passed 3-12-24; Am.
Ord. 028-24, passed - - 24)
§ 131.34 SPECIAL PERMITS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF NOISE WHERE OTHERWISE
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   City Council may grant a temporary exemption to allow a person or
persons to engage in conduct or activities which would otherwise violate this
subchapter.
   (B)   The following information shall be considered by City Council in
determining whether or not to grant an exemption:
      (1)   The nature of the proposed conduct or activity and whether there
are any feasible and prudent alternatives.
      (2)   Any adverse impacts and whether there are ways to avoid or mitigate
those impacts.
      (3)   The location of the proposed conduct or activity and any history of
noise problems at that address.
      (4)   The proximity of any residences, businesses, or other property uses
and whether the neighbors within hearing range support or oppose the proposed
conduct or activity.
      (5)   When the conduct or activity will begin and end.
   (C)   City Council or its designee may impose conditions and safeguards to
mitigate any adverse impacts of the conduct or activity.
   (D)   Upon approval of an exemption by City Council, a permit must be signed
by the Mayor or his or her designee and must set forth:
      (1)   The name of the person or group to whom the exemption is granted;
      (2)   The location of the property for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   A description of the conductor activity for which the exemption is
granted; and
      (4)   The dates and times for which the permit is effective.
(Ord. 07-15, as amended, passed 7-14-15)
§ 131.35 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 upon
conviction.
   (B)   Multiple violations; multiple offenders. An investigating officer may
issue citations for multiple violations that occur on the same date at the same
location and may issue citations to anyone who contributed to the noise.
   (C)   Owner or agent must provide assistance. If requested by the Department
of Public Safety, the owner or local agent shall render assistance to the
Department in resolving complaints about noise at a rental property.
   (D)   Notice to property owners required. If a violation occurs on private
property and the owner of the property was not present, the city shall make a
good faith effort to notify the property owner of the incident and shall
document such notification.
(Ord. 07-15, as amended, passed 7-14-15; Am. Ord. 030-22, passed 9-13-22)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Removing soil, earth and the like
   
132.02   Trespassing, malicious injury and the like
   
132.03   Pavements; writing or painting prohibited
   
132.04   Posters and handbills; consent of owner required
   
132.05   Defacing monuments or historical signs
   
132.06   Bad checks
   
132.07   Petty larceny
   
132.08   False statements
   
132.09   Sleeping in public places
   
132.10   Defrauding keeper of hotel, motel, inn, boardinghouse, rooming house,
tavern, café, or restaurant
Cross-reference:
   Beach Preservation and Construction Provisions, see
Ch. 151
§ 132.01 REMOVING SOIL, EARTH AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take away or remove any sand, earth
or soil from the streets, ways or beaches of the city without the written
permission of the Director of Public Safety.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-1) (Am. Ord. passed 11-2-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.02 TRESPASSING, MALICIOUS INJURY AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whoever shall willfully, unlawfully and maliciously cut, mutilate,
deface or otherwise injure or destroy any tree, house, outside fence, fixture
or other real or personal property of another, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Anyone who trespasses upon the real property in the possession of
another or who refuses to leave a premises after being told to do so by the
person having control of the premises, or who trespasses after notice, either
oral, written or posted, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Malicious injury to personal property, S.C. Code § 16-11-510
   Malicious injury to real property, S.C. Code § 16-11-520
§ 132.03 PAVEMENTS; WRITING OR PAINTING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stamp, print, chalk, paint or mark
any sign or advertisement or writing whatsoever on the pavements in the streets
of the city.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.04 POSTERS AND HANDBILLS; CONSENT OF OWNER REQUIRED.
   No person shall post, placard, attach or in any manner place any poster,
bill, placard, sign or other advertising device upon land, buildings, or any
structure or property of any kind within the city, for any purpose whatsoever,
without the consent of the owner of the land, buildings, structure or other
property.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.05 DEFACING MONUMENTS OR HISTORICAL SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully remove, destroy, mutilate, damage or
deface in any way or to any extent any monument or historical sign in, on or
upon any public park, street or private property of the city.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-5)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Altering and removing landmarks, S.C. Code § 16-11-680
§ 132.06 BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   S.C. Code § 34-11-90, as amended, is hereby fully incorporated by
reference, as if fully set forth, into the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   All bad checks in an amount not over $200 shall be tried in the
Municipal Court.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-8) (Ord. 82-7, passed 5-18-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.07 PETTY LARCENY.
   Anyone who shall commit a larceny of goods valued at less than $1,000 shall
be guilty of a petit larceny.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Petty larceny, S.C. Code § 16-13-30
§ 132.08 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   Any person who knowingly offers or gives either orally or in writing a false
statement, report or complaint to any official of the city while the official
is in the performance of his or her duty is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.09 SLEEPING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to camp, sleep between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the
beach, in the dunes, or on any other public property in any vehicle or trailer,
or otherwise.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-11) (Am. Ord. 10-13, passed 4-9-13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.10 DEFRAUDING KEEPER OF HOTEL, MOTEL, INN, BOARDINGHOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE,
TAVERN, CAFÉ, OR RESTAURANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any food, lodging, beverage or
other service or accommodation at any hotel, motel, inn, tavern boarding or
rooming house, café, or restaurant and intentionally abscond without paving for
it. To order or request such items or services and intentionally refuse to pay
for same shall constitute a violation of this section may be subjected to a
fine of $200 or 30 days in jail.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-28-2002)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Indecent exposure and dress
   
133.02   Gambling
   
133.03   Houses of ill fame and the like
   
133.04   Eavesdropping or peeping
   
133.05   Prohibition of tattoo and body piercing businesses
§ 133.01 INDECENT EXPOSURE AND DRESS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which his or her conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront
others, not members of his or her household:
      (1)   Expose his or her private parts or engage in masturbation;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct; or
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   Exception. The breast-feeding of infants is not an act of indecent
exposure.
(`95 Code, § 9-4-1) (Am. Ord. passed 11-2-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Indecent exposure, S.C. Code § 16-15-130
§ 133.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall open, keep or maintain any gaming house in any
building within the city, or suffer or permit any description of gaming or
playing any game of chance or skill for money, goods, chattels or other things
whatever, nor shall it be lawful for anyone to participate in or engage in any
device of gaming whatever in any building, street, lane, alley, court, park,
lot or public way within the city.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit fund-raising bingo
games or raffles when conducted by bona-fide charitable organizations.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall open, keep, maintain, dock, moor, anchor or
operate any gaming vessel within the corporate limits of the city, or suffer
any vessel to operate from any marina, terminal or maritime facility within the
corporate limits of the city for the purpose of embarking or disembarking
persons whose intent is to utilize gambling devices.
      (2)   A GAMING VESSEL is one:
         (a)   That provides gambling devices;
         (b)   That does not provide overnight accommodations for its
passengers; and/or
         (c)   That is not primarily engaged in carrying passengers between
ports in the U.S. or foreign countries.
      (3)   A GAMBLING DEVICE is:
         (a)   Any so-called “slot machine” or any other machine or mechanical
device, an essential part of which is a drum or reel with insignia thereon, and
which when operated may deliver, as the result of the application of an element
of chance, any money or grope or the operation of which a person may become
entitled to receive, as the result of the application of any element of chance,
any money or properly;
         (b)   Any other machine or mechanical device (including, but not
limited to roulette wheels and similar devices) designed and manufactured
primarily for use in connection with gambling and which when operated may
deliver, as the result of the application of an element of chance, and money or
property;
         (c)   By the operation of which a person may become entitled to
receive, as the result of the application of an element of chance, any money or
property; or
         (d)   Any subassembly or essential part intended to be used in
connection with any machine or mechanical device, but which is not attached to
any machine or mechanical device as a constituent part.
(`95 Code, § 9-4-2) (Am. Ord. 04-99, passed 2-2-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Bingo games, S.C. Code §§ 12-21-3920 et seq.
   Gambling, S.C. Code §§ 16-19-10 et seq.
§ 133.03 HOUSES OF ILL FAME AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall be the keeper of a house of ill fame, shall be the
keeper of a house of assignation uses for any purpose or shall keep an
indecent, disorderly house by which the peace, comfort and decency of a
neighborhood are habitually disturbed. This section shall be construed to apply
to any part of a house used for any of the purposes herein specified.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Safety, under the
instruction of the City Council, to enforce the provisions of this section,
upon any complaint made to him or her by reputable citizens residing or owning
property near the premises involved.
(`95 Code, § 9-4-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Prostitution, S.C. Code §§ 16-15-90 et seq.
§ 133.04 EAVESDROPPING OR PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an eavesdropper or peeping Tom.
The term PEEPING TOM, as used in this section, shall be defined as one who
peeps through the windows or doors or other like places for the purposes of
spying upon or invading the privacy of the person spied upon and doing any
other acts of a similar nature tending to invade the privacy of the persons.
(`95 Code, § 9-4-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, S.C. Code § 16-17-470
§ 133.05 PROHIBITION OF TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING BUSINESSES.
   (A)   No person shall establish a business providing for the tattooing or
body piercing of persons within the corporate limits of the city. This business
is repugnant to the community and is in direct conflict with the city's
Comprehensive Plan. No business license to operate the business will be issued
by the city.
   (B)   In the event a business attempts to open in conflict with this
section, it will be closed immediately by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 4-20-04)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC WELFARE
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Iceboxes, refrigerators and the like
   
134.02   Marijuana; simple possession
   
134.03   Animal traps
Drug-Related Paraphernalia
   
134.15   Purpose; statement of findings
   
134.16   Definition
   
134.17   Examination and investigation
   
134.18   Possession
   
134.19   Manufacture or delivery
   
134.20   Advertisement
   
134.21   Civil forfeiture
   
134.22   Interference with enforcement
Utility Street and Yard Lighting
   
134.30   Definitions
   
134.31   Regulations
   
134.32   Control of glare
   
134.33   Exceptions to control of glare
   
134.34   Outdoor advertising signs
   
134.35   Recreational facilities
   
134.36   Prohibitions
   
134.37   Temporary outdoor lighting
   
134.38   Effective date; grandfathering of nonconforming lights
   
134.39   New construction
   
134.40   Notification requirements
   
134.41   Violations; legal actions
Mooring Boats; Abandoned Boats; Violations
   
134.50   Purpose and authority
   
134.51   Definitions
   
134.52   Enforcement of state law governing abandoned and derelict vessels
   
134.53   Derelict or abandoned vessels within city’s corporate limits
   
134.54   Permit required to moor or anchor
   
134.55   (Reserved)
   
134.56   (Reserved)
   
134.57   (Reserved)
   
134.58   Administration and enforcement
 
   
134.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Beach Preservation and Construction Provisions, see
Chapter 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01 ICEBOXES, REFRIGERATORS AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who abandons or discards any icebox, refrigerator, ice chest or
other type of airtight container of a capacity sufficient to contain any child
and who neglects prior to the abandonment to remove the door, lid or other
device for the closing thereof and any owner, lessee or other person in charge
of property who knowingly permits any abandoned icebox, refrigerator, ice chest
or other type of airtight container to remain thereon accessible to children
without removing the door, lid or other closing device therefrom shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(S.C. Code § 16-3-1010) (`95 Code, § 9-5-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.02 MARIJUANA; SIMPLE POSSESSION.
   Anyone having in his or her possession a quantity of marijuana less than one
ounce by weight shall be guilty of simple possession of marijuana.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Marijuana offenses, S.C. Code § 44-53-370
§ 134.03 ANIMAL TRAPS.
   (A)   All steel traps and leg-hold traps which are not designed to catch
their prey alive and unharmed are hereby declared illegal.
   (B)   (1)   Anyone setting these traps, having these traps in their
possession, with the intent to use the traps in the city, or allowing these
traps to be used on their property will be subject to a penalty.
      (2)   Each trap and each separate day of using the above mentioned traps
constitutes a separate violation.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-4) (Ord. 86-12, passed 3-18-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Trapping; steel traps prohibited, see §
95.17
DRUG-RELATED PARAPHERNALIA
§ 134.15 PURPOSE; STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
   Whereas a drug law is hereby adopted in the city to deal with problems
created by the sale of drugs; and whereas, there is a need for a drug
regulation function to insure the health, safety, general welfare and morals of
residents of the city; because of a move by state governments to deal with drug
traffic by enforcing sufficient laws in dealing with such matters which have a
deleterious effect on the values within the city; the following conditions
shall apply to the sale of drug-related paraphernalia, as defined below.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-11) (Ord. 82-5, passed 5-4-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful to advertise for sale, to manufacture or to possess, S.C. Code §
44-53-391
§ 134.16 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
      (1)   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
contain-ing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this
subchapter shall be deemed to be DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
      (2)   The term includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substance;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales or balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Dilutents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used, intended for use or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use or designed for use in paranterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body; and
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic ceramic pipes
with or without, screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carbureting tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carbureting masks;
            5.   Roach clips; meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too short to be held in the
hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-12) (Ord. 82-5, passed 5-4-82)
§ 134.17 EXAMINATION AND INVESTIGATION.
   In determining whether an object is drug para-phernalia, a court or other
authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following.
   (A)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
   (B)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
   (C)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct violation
of this subchapter;
   (D)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   (E)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
   (F)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object or facilitate a violation
of this subchapter; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, as to a direct violation of this subchapter shall not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
   (G)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use;
   (H)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (I)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
   (J)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (K)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
   (L)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
   (M)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
   (N)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-13) (Ord. 82-5, passed 5-4-82)
§ 134.18 POSSESSION.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter. Any person
who violates this section is guilty of a crime and upon conviction may be
punished as provided.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-14) (Ord. 82-5, passed 5-14-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.19 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to
deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing or
under circumstances where one reasonable shall know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of this subchapter. Any person who violates
this section is guilty of a crime and upon conviction may be punished as
provided.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-15)
   (B)   Any person 18 years of age or over who violates the above section by
delivering drug paraphernalia to a person under 18 years of age who is at least
three years his or her junior is guilty of a special offense and upon
conviction may be punished as provided.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-16)
(Ord. 82-5, passed 5-14-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.20 ADVERTISEMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill
or other publication any advertisement, knowing or under circumstances where
one reasonable should know, that the purpose of this advertisement, in whole or
in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia. Any person who violates this section is guilty of a crime and
upon conviction may be punished as provided.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-17) (Ord. 82-5, passed 5-4-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.21 CIVIL FORFEITURE.
   (A)   Any of the items of personal property listed in §
134.16 and which is legally confiscated by the city will be forfeited. Any
property will be secured by the Department of Public Safety for a period of ten
days and thereafter the city will either destroy the property or advertise
notice of public sale of the property and sell such thereof as may be used for
legitimate purposes.
   (B)   Property subject to be forfeited under this subchapter may be seized
by the Department of Public Safety upon process issued by the Municipal Judge.
Seizure without process may be made if the seizure is incident to an arrest or
a search under a search warrant.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-18) (Ord. 82-5, passed 5-14-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.22 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, individually or as the representative
of any person, firm or corporation, to interfere in any way with the
enforcement of any of the terms or provisions of this subchapter.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-19) (Ord. 82-5, passed 5-14-82)
UTILITY STREET AND YARD LIGHTING
§ 134.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES. All properties located in C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, and M-
1.
   DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector or
reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of a luminaire
(source of light).
   FULLY-SHIELDED LIGHTS. Outdoor leased utility light fixtures shielded or
constructed so that no light rays are emitted by the installed fixture at
angles above the horizontal plane as certified by a photometric test report.
   GLARE. Light emitting from a light with an intensity great enough to reduce
a viewer’s ability to see, and in extreme cases causing momentary blindness.
   GRANDFATHERED LIGHTS. Lights not conforming to this code that were in place
at the time this code was voted into effect. When an ordinance “grandfathers” a
light, it means that such already- existing outdoor lighting does not need to
be changed unless a specified period is specified for adherence to the code.
   INDIRECT LIGHT. Direct light that has been reflected or has scattered off of
other surfaces.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES. All properties located in R-1, R-2, and R-3.
   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR LIGHTING. The specific illumination of an outside area or
object by any man-made device located outdoors that produces  light by any
means for a period of less than seven days, with at least 180 days passing
before being used again.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
§ 134.31 REGULATIONS.
   All commercial and residential public and private utility outdoor lighting
installed in the City of Folly Beach shall be in conformance with the
requirements established by this subchapter. All previous language in the City
of Folly Beach regarding outdoor lighting is replaced by this subchapter;
except §§
151.45 through
151.99, which is in full force and effect.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.32 CONTROL OF GLARE.
   (A)   Commercial and residential utility street and yard lights, or any
other outdoor lights, shall not emit any direct light more than 30 degrees off
of the vertical.
   (B)   The maximum height of utility street lights shall not exceed 25 feet.
   (C)   The maximum height of utility yard lights shall not exceed 25 feet.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.33 EXCEPTIONS TO CONTROL OF GLARE.
   (A)   Utility street and yard lights, or any other outdoor lights, that are
aimed, directed, or focused in a manner that would cause direct light from the
fixture to be directed seaward or toward residential buildings on adjacent or
nearby land, or would create glare perceptible to persons operating motor
vehicles on public ways shall be redirected or its light output controlled as
necessary to eliminate such conditions.
   (B)   All temporary emergency lighting needed by the Police or Fire
Departments or other emergency services, as well as all vehicular lighting,
shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   All hazard warning lighting required by federal regulatory agencies
are exempt from the requirements of this subchapter, except that all lighting
used must be red and must be shown to be as close as possible to the federally
required minimum standards.
   (D)   Law governing conflicts. Where any provision of federal, state,
county, or town statutes, codes, or laws conflicts with any provision of this
code, the most restrictive shall govern unless otherwise regulated by law.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.34 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Top-mounted fixtures required. Lighting fixtures used to illuminate an
outdoor advertising sign shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure. All
such fixtures shall comply with the shielding requirements of §
134.33. Bottom-mounted outdoor advertising sign lighting shall not be used.
   (B)   Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of translucent
materials and wholly illuminated from within do not require shielding. Dark
backgrounds with light lettering or symbols are preferred, to minimize
detrimental effects. Unless conforming to the above dark background preference,
total lamp wattage per property shall be less than 41 watts.
   (C)   Compliance limit. Existing outdoor advertising structures shall be
brought into conformance with this code within ten years from the date of
adoption of this subchapter.
   (D)   Prohibitions. Electrical illumination of outdoor advertising off-site
signs between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and sunrise is prohibited.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.35 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   Any light source permitted by this code may be used for lighting of outdoor
recreational facilities (public or private), such as, but not limited to,
tennis courts, basketball courts, or show areas, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
   (A)   All fixtures used for event lighting shall be fully shielded or be
designed or provided with sharp cut-off capability, so as to minimize light-up,
spill- light, and glare.
   (B)   All events shall be scheduled so as to complete all activity before or
as near to 10:30 p.m. as practical, but under no circumstances shall any
illumination be permitted after 11:00 p.m. except to conclude a scheduled event
that was in progress before 11:00 p.m. and circumstances prevented concluding
before 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.36 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Laser source light. The use of laser source light or any similar high
intensity light for outdoor advertising or entertainment, when projected above
the horizontal, is prohibited.
   (B)   Searchlights. The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes
is prohibited.
   (C)   Outdoor advertising off-site signs. Electrical illumination of outdoor
advertising off-site signs is prohibited between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
sunrise.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.37 TEMPORARY OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Any temporary utility outdoor lighting that conforms to the
requirements of this subchapter shall be allowed. Nonconforming temporary
utility outdoor lighting may be permitted by the Code Enforcement Officer after
considering:
      (1)   The public and/or private benefits that will result from the
temporary lighting;
      (2)   Any annoyance or safety problems that may result from the use of
the temporary lighting; and
      (3)   The duration of the temporary nonconforming lighting.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit a detailed description of the proposed
temporary nonconforming lighting to the Code Enforcement Officer, who shall
consider the request and render a decision on the temporary lighting request
within two weeks of the date of submission.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.38 EFFECTIVE DATE; GRANDFATHERING OF NONCONFORMING LIGHTS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall take effect immediately upon approval by the
City Council of the City of Folly Beach.
   (B)   All nonconforming leased utility lights, as of May 22, 2005, shall be
removed, changed, altered, or otherwise made to conform according to the
following schedule:
      (1)   Arctic Avenue, east and west of Center Street, 90 days.
      (2)   Ashley Avenue, east and west of Center Street, 90 days.
      (3)   Cooper Avenue, east and west of Center Street, one year.
      (4)   Erie Avenue, east and west of Center Street, one year.
      (5)   Hudson Avenue, east and west of Center Street, one year.
      (6)   Huron Avenue, east and west of Center Street, one year.
      (7)   Indian Avenue, east and west of Center Street, one year.
      (8)   All other streets and avenues, one year.
   (C)   All existing nonconforming outdoor lights, with exception of those
located in §
134.38(B)(1) - (8) shall be removed, changed, altered or otherwise made to
conform within one year from the date of the adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
§ 134.39 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Submission contents. The applicant for any permit required by any
provision of the laws of this jurisdiction in connection with proposed work
involving outdoor lighting fixtures shall submit (as part of the application
for permit) evidence that the proposed work will comply with this code. The
submission shall contain, but shall not necessarily be limited to, plans
indicating the type and location on the premises of illuminating devices,
fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other devices.
   (B)   Additional submission. The above required plans, descriptions and data
shall be sufficiently complete to enable the Building Official to readily
determine whether compliance with the requirements of this code will be
secured.
   (C)   Plat certification. If any subdivision or new construction proposes to
have installed street or other common or public area outdoor lighting, the
final plat shall contain a statement certifying that the applicable provisions
of the City of Folly Beach Outdoor Lighting Code will be adhered to.
   (D)   Lamp or fixture substitution. Should any outdoor light fixture, or the
type of light source therein, be changed after the permit has been issued, a
change request must be submitted to the Building Official for his or her
approval, together with adequate information to assure compliance with this
code, which must be received prior to substitution.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
§ 134.40 NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City of Folly Beach building permit shall include a statement
asking whether the planned project will include any outdoor lighting.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the enactment of this subchapter, the Code
Enforcement Official shall send a copy of this subchapter, with cover letter,
to all known local electricians and the local electric utility.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
§ 134.41 VIOLATIONS; LEGAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   Violation. It shall be a civil infraction for any person to violate
any of the provisions of this code. Each and every day during which the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Violations and legal actions. If, after investigation, the Code
Enforcement Officer finds that any provision of this subchapter is being
violated, he or she shall give notice by hand delivery or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of such violation to the owner and/or to the occupant
of the premises, demanding that the violation be abated within 30 days of the
date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing of the notice. If the violation
is not abated within the 30-day period, the Code Enforcement Officer may
institute actions and proceedings, either legal or equitable, to enjoin,
restrain, or abate any violations of this subchapter and to collect the
penalties for such violations.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08)
Penalty, see § 134.99
MOORING BOATS; ABANDONED BOATS; VIOLATIONS
§ 134.50 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Authority. The provisions are adopted pursuant to the police powers of
municipalities generated by state legislation, including the State Home Rule
Act, construed in accordance with provisions of the South Carolina State
Constitution and the South Carolina Code of Laws, and pursuant to the authority
conferred by S.C. Code Title 5, specifically §§ 5-7-30 and 5-7-140 thereof, and
S.C. Code Title 50, specifically §§ 50-21-30, 50-21-80, and 5-21-200 to 5- 21-
270 thereof.
   (B)   Purpose. The provisions of this subchapter are adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, welfare, and general convenience by:
      (1)   Ensuring that vessel owners are responsibly using the city's
waterways without causing undue environmental harm, creating hazardous
conditions, or leaving derelict and abandoned vessels in the waterways; and
      (2)   Preventing environmental harm of spilled fuel, human waste, or
other pollutants that can be associated with derelict or live aboard vessels
not properly pumped or maintained; and
      (3)   Protecting human life and navigation hazards associated with over-
crowded waterways, haphazardly moored vessels, or sunken vessels, particularly
near public boat landings and other crowded areas; and
      (4)   Protecting, preserve, restore, and enhance the city's natural
waterways and marshes; and
      (5)   Preventing damage to public bridges and boat landings, and private
docks and marinas through improperly moored or listing vessels; and
      (6)   Preventing wasteful tax expenditures for the cost of removing
sunken and abandoned vessels.
(Ord. 22-20, passed 10-13-20; Am. Ord. 005-24, passed 3-12-24; Am. Ord. 011-25,
passed 8-12-25)
§ 134.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VESSEL. A vessel that: (a) is wrecked, junked, or in a state of
disrepair; (b) does not have a visible identifier; and (c) remains on the
waters of the state, or on public property adjacent thereto, for at least ten
consecutive days from the abandoned vessel notice is posted on the vessel.
(S.C. Code § 50-21- 10(A)(1))
   BOAT. A vessel or watercraft of any type or size specifically designed to be
self propelled, whether by engine, sail, paddle, or other means, which is used
to travel from place to place by water. (S.C. Code § 50- 21-10(2); S.C. Code
Ann. Regs. 30-1(D)(7))
   CITY. The City of Folly Beach.
   DEPARTMENT. The South Carolina Department of Natural Resources.
   DERELICT VESSEL. A vessel that: (a) is wrecked, junked, or in a state of
disrepair; (b) has a visible identifier; and (c) remains on the waters of the
state, or on public property adjacent thereto, for at least 21 consecutive days
from the day a derelict vessel notice is posted on the vessel. (S.C. Code § 50-
21- 210(A)(2))
   FLOATING STRUCTURE. A man-made object other than a watercraft that is
capable of flotation and that is not authorized by a permit issued by an agency
of this state. (S.C. Code § 50-21-30(A))
   JUNKED.  Substantially stripped of vessel components.
   LEGALLY MOORED. Any watercraft or floating structure that is not abandon or
abandoned and:
      (1)   Moored to a dock or marina berth with permission from the dock or
berth owner;
      (2)   Moored to a mooring buoy that is permitted by the Department of
Environmental Services with permission from the buoy owner;
      (3)   Moored to a mooring buoy with permission from the buoy owner,
provided that the buoy is in the location as it existed on public waters on
June 30, 2021.
   OPERATE. To navigate, steer, drive, or be in control. It also includes the
manipulation of moving water skis, a moving aquaplane, a moving surfboard, or
similar moving device. (S.C. Code § 50-21-10(15))
   OUTBOARD MOTOR. A combustion engine or electric propulsion system, which is
used to propel a watercraft and which is detachable from the watercraft as a
unit. No OUTBOARD MOTOR of less than five horsepower or its equivalent is
required to be titled under this chapter. (S.C. Code § 50-21-10(17))
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, who claims lawful possession of a
vessel or outboard motor by virtue of legal title or equitable interest in it
which entitled him or her to possession. (S.C. Code § 50-21-10(18))
   PERSON. An individual, a partnership, a firm, a corporation, an association,
or other legal entity. (S.C. Code § 50-21-10(19))
   PUBLIC SAFETY. The Folly Beach Department of Public Safety.
   REGISTERED OWNER. A person listed as the owner on a state’s vessel
registration records or on a United States Coast Guard certificate of
documentation.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person who has the rights to the possession and use of
a vessel.
   USE. Operate, navigate, or employ. (S.C. Code § 50-21-10(26)
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft, other than a seaplane regulated by
the federal government, used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on water. (S.C. Code § 50-21-10(27))
   VISIBLE IDENTIFIER. A visible identifier includes (a) a hull identification
number; (b) a vessel registration number of this state or another state; or (c)
a vessel name and home port.
   WATERS OF THE CITY. Waters within the territorial limits of the city but not
on private lakes or ponds.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Waters within the territorial limits of the state but
not private lakes or ponds. (S.C. Code § 50-21-10(29))
   WATERCRAFT. Anything used or capable of being used as a means of
transportation on the water but does not include: a seaplane regulated by the
federal government, water skis, aquaplanes, surfboards, windsurfers, tubes,
rafts, and similar devices or anything that does not meet construction or
operational requirements of the state or federal government for watercraft.
(S.C. Code § 50-21-10(30))
   WRECKED. Listing due to water intake or hull damage, or aground and cannot
be extracted without mechanical assistance.
(Ord. 22-20, passed 10-13-20; Am. Ord. 005-24, passed 3-12-24; Am. Ord. 011-25,
passed 8-12-25)
§ 134.52 ENFORCEMENT OF STATE LAW GOVERNING ABANDONED AND DERELICT VESSELS.
   (A)   Abandoned vessels, derelict vessels, and sunken vessels are public
nuisances and violative of both this code and state law, in particular S.C.
Code §§ 50-21-220 to 270. Pursuant to S.C. Code § 50-21-230 and this code, the
city's Department of Public Safety is authorized to enforce S.C. Code §§ 50-21-
220 to 270 within the city's corporate limits extending outward to one mile
from the high-water mark of any bordering navigable body of water, including
the authority:
      (1)   To enforce S.C. Code § 50-21 -220 in magistrate court, including
seeking convictions of not more than $10,000, imprisonment for not more than 60
days, or both and further holding violator's liable for all costs arising from
the removal and disposal of the vessel from the waters of the State;
      (2)   To enforce S.C. Code §§ 50-21-240 and 50-21-250, including to
locating, identifying, providing notice, and reporting vessels that are
wrecked, junked, or in a state of disrepair; and
      (3)   To enforce S.C. Code §§ 50-21-260 and 50-21-270, including removal
of abandoned and derelict vessels and commencing civil actions against a
responsible party.
   (B)   This provision does not limit the authority of the city's Department
of Public Safety to enforce other provisions of Title 50 of the South Carolina
Code of Laws on the waters of the State pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 23-20-10, et
seq., 50-21-30(8), or 50-21-80. Any such enforcement against actions or vessels
located within the corporate limits set forth in S.C. Code § 5-7-140 (one mile
seaward of the high tide line of the Atlantic Ocean and the low-water mark of
any other navigable body of water bordering the city) may be pursued in
municipal court. All other violations on state waters beyond the corporate
limits (except where specifically extended by State law) shall be pursued in
the magistrate court or other appropriate state court.
(Ord. 011-25, passed 8-12-25) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.53 DERELICT OR ABANDONED VESSELS WITHIN CITY’S CORPORATE LIMITS.
   In addition to state law, the following provisions of this section apply to
abandoned and derelict vessels located within the city's corporate limits as
defined by S.C. Code § 5-7-140 and may be enforced at the option of the city in
the municipal court.
   (A)   It is unlawful to abandon a watercraft or outboard motor on the public
lands or waters within the city's corporate limits or on private property
without permission of the property owner. This section does not apply to
persons who abandon a watercraft in an emergency for the safety of the persons
onboard; however, after the emergency is over, the owner and operator of the
abandoned watercraft shall make a bona fide attempt to recover the watercraft.
   (B)   If a watercraft or floating structure is found to be in violation of §
134.54 (mooring permit required to moor or anchor) and the permit holder or
owner fails to respond within ten consecutive days, this shall constitute
abandonment.
   (C)   A person violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be charged with a municipal ordinance violation or a
violation of state law. In addition, the city may seek removal of the vessel,
costs of removal, or other remedies provided by State law.
(Ord. 011-25, passed 8-12-25) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.54 PERMIT REQUIRED TO MOOR OR ANCHOR.
   (A)   Any watercraft or floating structure that remains moored, anchored, or
otherwise located within a one-mile radius of the Folly Beach Boat Landing, 97
Center Street, Folly Beach, South Carolina on public waters the waters of the
city for more than 14 consecutive days must obtain a permit from the city's
Public Safety Department.
   (B)   The cost of a permit may not exceed $15.
   (C)   The permit requirement does not apply to watercraft:
      (1)   Moored to a dock or marina berth with permission from the dock or
berth owner;
      (2)   Moored to a mooring buoy that is permitted by the Department of
Health and Environmental Control with permission from the buoy owner; and
      (3)   Moored to a mooring buoy with permission from the buoy owner,
provided that the buoy is in the location as it existed on public waters on
June 30, 2021.
   (D)   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 50-2 l-30(C)(2), notwithstanding § 5-7-140(B),
the corporate limits of the city are extended to the center of the channel of
any navigable body of water bordering the city for the sole purpose of
enforcing this subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   In order to obtain a permit, the owner must present:
         (a)   Proof of ownership;
         (b)   Proof of current insurance;
         (c)   Proof of current state or Coast Guard registration;
         (d)   Name, address, and phone number of a local contact who can
respond and has authority to take action on a vessel within 24 hours if called
by Public Safety;
         (e)   Description of mooring technique, and explanation of its
adequacy for the location; and
         (f)   Attestation that the vessel is neither derelict nor abandoned.
      (2)   Permits expire unless renewed every 60 days.
   (F)   Permit regulations. Permitted watercraft and floating structures:
      (1)   May only be moored or anchored in the area provided on the permit;
      (2)   May not be anchored or moored within 500 yards of a boat landing,
community dock, public bridge, or marina, except for vessels with express
written permission of the owner of the boat landing, community dock, or marina;
      (3)   May not be moored or anchored or able to swing within 100 feet of
any other legally anchored or moored watercraft or floating structures or
permitted mooring, dock or marina without written permission of the owner;
      (4)   Must display current state, federal, or foreign registration, and
must provide a current permit, official documentation of ownership and
registration if requested by Public Safety;
      (5)   Must be kept free of litter, debris, barnacles, algae, and other
unsightly growth. This requirement applies not only to removal of loose litter,
but to materials that already are, or become, trapped or pinned against
watercraft and floating structures;
      (6)   Must not be unsightly, derelict, abandoned, neglected, or
substantially dismantled, or improperly maintained, or be unable to be used for
navigation as intended;
      (7)   Must not be listing, aground, sinking, in danger of breaking its
mooring or anchor, dragging its mooring or anchor, or otherwise unsuccessfully,
improperly, or unsafely moored or anchored;
      (8)   Must have a local contact listed on the permit able to respond to
the watercraft or floating structure within 24 hours of a Public Safety officer
contact or attempt to make contact;
      (9)   Must be equipped with a holding tank if slept on and must provide
to Public Safety proof of regular weekly pump outs of the vessel's holding tank
upon request;
      (10)   Must not be subject to complaints of excessive noise, thefts,
firearms violations, controlled substance violations, or other disturbances of
possible danger to the environment or any person, emanating from the vessel or
its crew;
      (11)   Must display proper anchor lights.
   (G)   If Department of Natural Resources, Department of Environmental
Services, or the Director of Public Safety determines there are safety-related
or environmental reasons for denying permission during a particular period of
time, or in a particular place, or in a particular manner or has been
identified as an abandoned watercraft by the Department of Natural Resources,
the permit will be revoked.
   (H)   If a person's permit has been revoked twice, an additional permit
shall not be granted for a period of one year.
   (I)   Within four hours of a hurricane warning being declared, each vessel
operator shall secure their vessel to prevent the vessel, and/or its parts or
contents from damaging the property of others.
   (J)   This section does not apply to the following watercraft or floating
structures:
      (1)   A vessel seeking safe harbor from dangerous weather or in the event
of mechanical failure for up to seven days; or
      (2)   A vessel anchored while actively engaged in fishing or other
noncommercial recreational activities.
   (K)   Permit denial or revocation.
      (1)   Permits may be denied or revoked for non-compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter or other federal, state, county or city laws
governing or related to the watercraft or floating structure.
      (2)   If a permit is denied or revoked a person may reapply for a permit
once they are in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and other
federal, state, county and city laws governing or related to the watercraft or
floating structure.
      (3)   Permits may be denied or revoked for violations of this subchapter
or other federal, state, county or city laws governing or related to the
watercraft or floating structure, as well as, violations of federal state,
county or city laws committed on or involving the watercraft or floating
structure.
      (4)   A person who is denied or revoked for two or more violations of
this subchapter or other federal, state, county or city laws governing or
related to the watercraft or floating structure, or violation of federal,
state, county or city laws committed on or involving the watercraft or floating
structure shall be ineligible to apply for a permit for a period of one year
from the date of the second violation.
      (5)   A person who is denied a permit or has their permit revoked may
appeal the decision to the city's hearing officer by filing written notice with
the Director of Public Safety within ten days of being notified of the denial
or revocation.
   (L)   Renewal and changes to permit.
      (1)   Permits must be renewed every 60 days.
      (2)   Permit holders must notify the Police Department within 24 hours of
any changes to the information provided in the permit application.
   (M)   Illegal mooring and anchoring.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any watercraft or floating structure to
remain moored, anchored, or otherwise located on the waters of the city for
more than 14 consecutive days without first obtaining a permit from the city
Police Department as set forth above.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to attach a watercraft or floating structure
to a mooring ball, dock, or other floating structure without the express
permission of the owner.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to attach a watercraft or floating structure
to a mooring ball, dock, or other floating structure marked for law enforcement
purposes or other use by the city.
   (N)   Enforcement. A person violating the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be sentenced to pay a tine
not exceeding $500 or serve a term not exceeding 30 days in jail or both. Each
day a violation of this section thereof shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 22-20, passed 10-13-20; Am. Ord. 005-24, passed 3-12-24; Am. Ord. 011-25,
passed 8-12-25) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.55 (RESERVED)
§ 134.56 (RESERVED)
§ 134.57 (RESERVED)
§ 134.58 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administration. The administration and enforcement of the provisions
of this subchapter shall be vested in the City of Folly Beach Public Safety
Department. City Public Safety officers shall have the authority to board any
vessel subject to the provisions of this subchapter or to any applicable rule
or regulation for the purpose of inspection or determining compliance and are
empowered to issue a summons for appearance in court or make arrest for
violations of this subchapter or the rules and regulations prescribed
thereunder.
   (B)   When necessary, the Department of Public Safety may act, or may join
in action with other agencies, to declare a vessel "abandoned" or "derelict,"
or to determine and abate any unsafe or environmentally hazardous conditions,
by towing, relocating, removing any vessel, or taking any other action
reasonably necessary.
   (C)   This section does not limit any other rights granted to the city or
Public Safety by federal, state or local law.
(Ord. 22-20, passed 10-13-2020; Am. Ord. 005-24, passed 3-12-24; Am. Ord. 011-
25, passed 8-12-25)
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding
$500 or serve a term not exceeding 30 days in jail or both. Each day a
violation of this section thereof shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   A person violating any state law provisions referenced in this chapter
and subject to fines and other punishments outlined in the state law. The
magistrate court has jurisdiction over violations of state law.
(Ord. 33-04, passed 5-22-05; Am. Ord. 29-08, passed 12-30-08; Am. Ord. 22-20,
passed 10-13-20; Am. Ord. 005-24, passed 3-12-24; Am. Ord. 011-25, passed 8-12-
25)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   BEACH PRESERVATION AND CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SPECIAL EVENTS, PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS, AND THE PUBLIC’S USE OF SPACES IN
CITY-OWNED BUILDINGS
      
154.   (RESERVED)
      
155.   EMINENT DOMAIN
      
156.   (RESERVED)
      
157.   (RESERVED)
      
158.   (RESERVED)
      
159.   (RESERVED)
      
160.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
161.   DEFINITIONS
      
162.   ADMINISTRATION
      
163.   ZONING DISTRICTS
      
164.   USE STANDARDS
      
165.   DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
      
166.   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
      
167.   SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
      
168.   NONCONFORMITIES
      
169.   ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Building Code adopted
   
150.002   Mandatory building codes
   
150.003   Amendments to codes
   
150.004   Permissive codes
   
150.005   Building permit required
   
150.006   Standard Building Code definitions
   
150.007   Fees
   
150.008   Partially built structures
   
150.009   Construction on public dedicated land
   
150.010   Storm hazard reduction on construction sites
   
150.011   Other definitions
Electrical Code
   
150.025   (Reserved)
   
150.026   Approval of electrical devices, materials and appliances
   
150.027   License required for installation; exceptions
   
150.028   Grounds for revocation
   
150.029   Permit required; application; annual permit
   
150.030   Exceptions
   
150.031   Fees
   
150.032   Certificate of approval; notice to utility
   
150.033   Revocation of permits or approvals
   
150.034   Where rigid raceways required
   
150.035   Temporary service
   
150.036   Service entrance
   
150.037   Service alterations on existing structures
   
150.038   Panels
   
150.039   Romex
   
150.040   Receptacles
   
150.041   Appliances generally
   
150.042   Conduit entrance
   
150.043   Liability of Electrical Inspector or city official for damages
   
150.044   Enforcement; right of entry of Electrical Inspector
   
150.045   Requirements not covered by code
   
150.046   Minimum square footage for septic systems
Mechanical Code
   
150.070   (Reserved)
   
150.071   Duct standards
Gas Code
   
150.085   Valves on house lines; work to be performed by licensed installers
   
150.086   Penalties for striking and damaging utility lines or pipes
Hazardous Materials
   
150.090   Hazardous materials
Unfit Dwellings
   
150.100   Investigation and procedure to determine unfitness
   
150.101   Standards for determining fitness of dwelling for human habitation
   
150.102   Service of complaints or orders; posting and filing copies
   
150.103   Appeal to Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
150.104   Rights of persons affected by orders
   
150.105   Powers and authority of Building Official
   
150.106   Sale of materials of removed or demolished dwelling
   
150.107   Prohibitions on vacated dwellings
   
150.108   Termination of utilities
   
150.109   Emergency vacate order and termination of utilities
   
150.110   Subchapter provisions are cumulative
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.120   Building Official
   
150.121   Appeals heard by Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and
Appeals
   
150.122   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Beach Preservation and Construction Provisions, see
Ch. 151
   Construction, ingress and/or egress on properties accreted unnaturally from
Post-Hugo Dune Restoration Project, see
152.12
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   Act 83, signed into law by Governor Sanford on July 2, 2003 shifted
responsibility of adoption and implementation of the mandatory building codes
to the South Carolina Building Codes Council. (See 6-9-50 of the Code of Laws).
(`95 Code, § 5-3-11) (Am. Ord. 21-96, passed 12-3-96; Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 2-
8-05; Am. Ord. 52-05, passed 9-27-05; Am. Ord. 44-06, passed 12-12-06; Am. Ord.
11-10, passed 6-22-10)
§ 150.002 MANDATORY BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   The latest edition of the mandatory building codes as adopted by the
SC Building Codes Council and shall be enforced at all times within the
corporate limits of the City of Folly Beach as follows:
      (1)   International Building Code with S.C. modifications and including
Chapter 1;
      (2)   International Fire Code with S.C. modifications and including
Chapter 1;
      (3)   International Plumbing Code with S.C. modifications and including
Chapter 1;
      (4)   International Mechanical Code with S.C. modifications and including
Chapter 1;
      (5)   International Fuel Gas Code with S.C. modifications and including
Chapter 1;
      (6)   International Energy Conservation Code with SC Modifications;
      (7)   National Electrical Code;
      (8)   International Residential Code with S.C. modifications, including
Chapter 1; and
      (9)   Any other modifications or updated Codes, which have received
approval from the South Carolina Building Codes Council.
   (B)   Also, mandatory and shall be enforced are the following:
      (1)   The latest edition of ICC/ANSI A117.1, Accessibility and Useable
Buildings Facilities, which is adopted by the Accessibility Act. All plan
reviews and inspections conducted by the Building Official shall be based on
ICC/ANSI A117.1; however, there are other accessibility documents which are law
and must be considered.
      (2)   The Building Efficiency Standards Act.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 6-22-10; Am. Ord. 20-13, passed 8-13-13; Am. Ord. 20-16,
passed 7-12-16)
§ 150.003 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Building Code amendments that have not received prior approval by the S.C.
Buildings Codes Council are invalid and cannot be adopted, employed, or
enforced by the city.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 6-22-10)
§ 150.004 PERMISSIVE CODES.
   The latest edition of the following permissive codes as approved by the SC
Building Codes Council may be used as needed by the city pursuant to S.C. § 6-
9-50. The permissive codes are as follows:
   (A)   International Property Maintenance Code to include Chapter 1;
   (B)   Existing Building Code, including Chapter 1:
   (C)   International Performance Code for Buildings and Facilities, including
Chapter 1; and
   (D)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, including Chapter 1.
(Ord. 11-10, passed 6-22-10; Am. Ord. 20-13, passed 8-13-13; Am. Ord. 20-16,
passed 7-12-16)
§ 150.005 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. All construction (new and remodeling and repairs)
shall require a permit to include docks, retaining-walls, sea walls, fences,
pools, septic tank installations and/or repairs. (To obtain a permit the
applicant must either be the owner of the property and the primary resident, or
a South Carolina state licensed contractor (exceptions to the requirement to be
a state licensed contractor: floor covering, painting/caulking and wall
papering, drywall repairs, replacing screens/screen doors, pressure washing and
routine interior and exterior cleaning). For example, owners of rental property
may pull permits for the exceptions listed above.)
      (1)   Changes to the exterior of a property may require a sign off from
the Zoning Administrator. Changes to the exterior of commercial properties may
need approval from the Design Review Board at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Permits for the construction of new docks in the Conservation
Zoning District shall require a letter of coordination with Charleston County.
      (3)   All building permits located on islands less than ten acres shall
require a letter of coordination from SCDHEC confirming that the proposed
developments meet all applicable state regulations for marsh island
development.
      (4)   All permit cards will be displayed onsite and must be visible from
the public right-of-way at the access to the property.
      (5)   Toilet and refuse disposal containers shall be provided and
maintained by the permit holder on all project sites.
   (B)   Zoning permit. A zoning permit shall be required for all new
residential and commercial construction, including rebuilds and construction
that would change the footprint or use of an existing structure.
   (C)   Prior to starting any excavation work the applicant shall contact 811
to request locate tickets. The applicant shall include the locate tickets with
the permit application.
(Ord. 13-19, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord. 13-20, passed 9-8-20)
§ 150.006 STANDARD BUILDING CODE DEFINITIONS.
   Section 201.1, “Definitions,” is amended by adding the following after
“Wall, Bearing” and before “Wall, Cavity:”
   “New Construction.”  A project in which an entirely new facility is built
from the ground up, including all appurtenances.
   “Remodeling.” As any changes or improvements to structures and building
components and systems such as partitions, floors, ceilings, ventilation,
heating, colling and lighting. It could include such work on utilities and
grounds.
   “Wall, Break-Away Screening. A non-bearing wall with 50 percent of the area
void and evenly distributed throughout, and located between piles or columns,
and shall meet the requirements of Section 2905.3.”
(`95 Code, § 5-3-15)
§ 150.007 FEES.
   (A)   Zoning permit fees. The zoning permit fee shall be $100.
   (B)   Building permit fees. All permit fees, whether single family or multi-
family, shall be calculated on a per residential unit basis.
   (C)   Senior citizens. Senior citizens applying for permits in this section
shall be given a 10% discount if the citizens meet all of the criteria below:
      (1)   Senior citizen is 65 years or older;
      (2)   Senior citizen is the owner or co-owner of the premises for which a
permit is issued or a fee is paid; and
      (3)   Senior citizen is a permanent resident, living full-time at the
premises or the premises is a second home for the senior citizen for which the
permit is issued or a fee is paid.
 
Total valuation      Fee (building permits, mechanical permits, and repair
                     permits)
                     $10 filing fee (no charge for owner of the property), if
$1,000 and less      inspection is required, a $50 fee for each inspection
                     shall be charged.
$1,001 to $50,000    $50 for the first $1,000 plus $7.50 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $50,000.
$50,001 to $100,000  $370 for the first $50,000 plus $6.50 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $100,000.
$100,001 to $500,000 $710 for the first $100,000 plus $5.50 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and including $500,000.
$500,001 and up      $2,445 for the first $500,000 plus $4 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof.
 
   (D)   All other permits.
      (1)   The permit fee for electrical installation shall be: 100 AMP: $30;
200 AMP: $50. Permit fees for electrical installations over 200 AMP shall be
$25 per 100 AMP. Repairs shall be based on cost of the work and the permit fee
shall be on the regular valuation fee schedule as shown above.
      (2)   The permit fee for plumbing work or repair shall be $4.50 per
fixture.
      (3)   The permit fee for natural gas work or repairs shall be: gas piping
at one location - total fees
unless additional or replacement work, one to four outlets inclusive $15,
additional outlets at $3.
      (4)   Demolition permits.
         (a)   Permits for the partial or complete demolition of any structure
within the city shall be issued only after the age of the structure or portion
of the structure proposed to be demolished is established by the following
evidence:
            1.   A certificate of occupancy.
            2.   A building permit clearly describing the address of the
building or addition and, where applicable, the nature of any addition
authorized by the permits.
            3.   A property tax bill or property record card from Charleston
County describing the address and nature of improvements to the site.
            4.   A report from an architect or engineer licensed in the State
of South Carolina with an estimated construction date based on materials,
styles, building methods or any other relevant criteria.
         (b)   For the partial or complete demolition of any residential or
commercial structure in sound condition constructed less than 50 years prior to
the date of application for demolition, the fee shall be $100.
         (c)   For the demolition of any residential or commercial structure in
sound condition and constructed more than 50 years prior to the date of
application for demolition:
            1.   The fee shall be $100 for partial demolition of additions made
less than 50 years prior to the date of application for demolition provided
that the applicant provides documentation of the construction dates of the
areas to be demolished.
            2.   The fee shall be $5,000 for complete demolition.
         (d)   The fee for demolition of any of the following structures shall
be $100:
            1.   Any residential or commercial structure that has been
inspected by the Building Official and deemed to be a threat to the safety,
health, and welfare of the public.
            2.   Any residential or commercial structure which has been
certified by an architect or engineer licensed in the State of South Carolina
to be structurally unsound, non-compliant with current building and fire codes
in effect for development within the city, or by virtue of an elevation
certificate, has been shown to be non compliant with the required flood
elevation and for which the cost of compliance whether individually or
cumulatively exceeds 50% of the appraised value of the structure.
            3.   Any accessory structure.
      (5)   For the moving of any building or structure, the fee shall be $100.
   (E)   Application fee.  
      (1)   There shall be an application fee for each building permit as
follows:
         Under $1,000      $10 unless owner of the property
         $1,000 to $5,000      $50
         Over $5,000         $100
   (F)   Additional inspections; fees. When extra inspections are made
necessary for reasons of defective work or otherwise through fault or error on
the part of the permit holder, or on the part of his or her employees after the
notice has been given in writing by the Building Official setting forth the
violation, only one extra inspection shall be made under the regular permit
fees, and for each and every visit or inspection for which the permit holder or
his or her employee is entirely responsible, additional fees shall be charged
in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
   (G)   Plan review fees. There shall be a plan review charge on all
construction over $1,000 of 50% of the permit fee.
   (H)   Flood plain management fees. There shall be 1% FPMF fee charged on all
new construction or substantial improvement (over 50% of the value of the
structure) not to exceed $50.
   (I)   Penalties.  Where work for which a permit is required by this code is
started or proceeded prior to obtaining said permit, the fees herein specified
shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not relieve any
persons from fully complying with the requirements of this code in the
execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein. If a
citation is issued it will be based on §
10.99 General Penalty.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-16) (Ord. 07-97, passed - - 97; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 6-22-
04; Am. Ord. 01-05, passed 1-25-05; Am. Ord. 06-05, passed 3-8-05; Am. Ord. 28-
06, passed 7-25-06; Am. Ord. 04-08, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 19-09, passed 11-
10-09; Am. Ord. 06-11, passed 3-22-11; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 7-23-13; Am. Ord.
14-18, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord. 13-19, passed 2-11-19)
Editor's Note:
   These fees derive from Appendix B of the International Residential Code, as
published by the International Code Council.
§ 150.008 PARTIALLY BUILT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The owner of any partially built structure that has been standing for
two years will be required by this subchapter to demolish or complete the
structure.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of the property will be notified by the city to obtain
a permit within 45 days of receipt of the notice.
      (2)   Construction or demolition of the structure must be completed
within six months after issuance of permit.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-17)
§ 150.009 CONSTRUCTION ON PUBLIC DEDICATED LAND.
   No one shall place any non-authorized building, tree, sign, bush, fence,
seawall or obstruction on any highway right-of-way, beach accesses, fire lanes
or any other public dedicated property.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-18) (Ord. 80-4, passed 4-15-80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.010 STORM HAZARD REDUCTION ON CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   In the event that the Municipal Emergency Operations Center has been
activated and declared at least an Emergency Operation Condition Level 3:
   (A)   No delivery of construction material shall be allowed to active
construction sites on the island.
   (B)   Permit holders or owners of active construction sites within the city
shall remove, store, or secure under or inside the structure, all loose
materials and potential windborne debris from any building site. Loose
materials inside and under the structure shall be tied down mechanically to the
grade below the structure or framing of the structure with strapping,
structural frames, or other methods approved by the building official, or any
employee of the Department of Public Safety designated by the building
official.
   (C)   Construction dumpsters shall be dumped or removed from any building
site. Questions regarding or requests for verification of satisfactory site
conditions shall be directed through to the Incident Command Center.
(Ord. 03-18, passed 4-24-18)
§ 150.011 OTHER DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. A project in which an entirely new facility is built from
the ground up, including all appurtenances.
   REMODELING. Any changes or improvements to structures and building
components and systems, such as partitions, floors, ceilings, ventilation,
heating, cooling, and lighting.
(Ord. 14-07, passed 6-26-07)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.025 (RESERVED).
§ 150.026 APPROVAL OF ELECTRICAL DEVICES, MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES.
   This subchapter shall require that all electrical devices, materials or
appliances designed for attachment or installation on any electrical circuit or
system for light, heat or power shall not be sold, offered for sale, installed
or used unless they shall be approved by the Underwriter's Laboratory, Inc., or
unless they shall have been submitted to and approved by the Electrical
Inspector as safe to life and property.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-32)
§ 150.027 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Before any person shall engage in the business of installing
electrical wiring or appliances in any building or structure in the city, he or
she shall first have applied for and obtained a license as an electrical
contractor. This applicant shall have a minimum of five years experience.
   (B)   (1)   This subchapter shall not require a license for performance of
any kind of electrical wiring installation upon any property by the owner, or
by or for public utility corporations subject to regulation by the duly
constituted authorities of the Commission, and where the property is required
as a part of the plant of any corporation and is so utilized in rendering its
services to the public or by or for mechanical contractors installing equipment
with automatic controls and requiring interwiring.
      (2)   Permits shall be secured, however, and all the work shall be
inspected as provided hereinafter.
      (3)   The word “owner,” as used in this section, shall not be construed
to include any contractor employed by the owner; nor shall the wording in this
section be interpreted so as to abrogate or in any way modify the permit,
inspection or any other sections and provisions of this subchapter; nor shall
the relief from licensing provided by this section apply to a builder,
developer or contractor engaged in the construction of buildings for resale.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-33)
§ 150.028 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city may revoke the license of any electrical contractor who is
found guilty of fraud or deceit in obtaining a license, or gross negligence,
incompetence or misconduct in conducting his or her business as an electrical
contractor.
   (B)   Any person who prefers charges of gross negligence, incompetence or
misconduct against any electrical contractor licensed hereunder shall submit
the charges in affidavit form and file same with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-34)
§ 150.029 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ANNUAL PERMIT.
   (A)   No electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment shall be
installed within or on any building, structure or premises, nor shall any
alteration or addition be made in the existing wiring, devices, appliances or
equipment without first securing a permit therefor from the Electrical
Inspector or his or her assistants authorized to issue the permits.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for permits shall be made on forms provided for the
purpose by the Electrical Inspector, who is authorized to issue in lieu of
individual permits an annual permit upon application therefor to any person
regularly employing one or more maintenance electricians for the maintenance of
electric wiring, devices, appliances and equipment relating to operation and
maintenance and to process related construction, alteration or modification on
the premises occupied by the applicant.
      (2)   A person to whom an annual permit is issued shall be entitled to a
periodic inspection or special inspection upon request. Annual permits shall
expire on December 31 of the year in which issued.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-35)
§ 150.030 EXEMPTIONS.
   The Electrical Inspector shall not require permits for:
   (A)   The replacement of lamps;
   (B)   The connection of portable devices to suitable receptacles which have
been permanently installed;
   (C)   The installation, alteration or repair of wiring, devices, appliances
or equipment for the operation of signals or the transmission of intelligence;
or
   (D)   Public service corporations for the installation of equipment
necessary in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric energy.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-36)
§ 150.031 FEES.
   (A)   Any person making application for a permit for the installation or
alteration or maintenance of electrical wiring, devices, appliances and
equipment shall pay to the city a fee in the amount, as established from time
to time by the City Council.
   (B)   When extra inspections are made necessary for reasons of defective
work or otherwise through fault or error on the part of the permit holder, or
on the part of his or her employees after the notice has been given in writing
by the Electrical Inspector setting forth the violation, only one extra
inspection shall be made under the regular permit fees, and for each and every
visit or inspection for which the permit holder or his or her employee is
entirely responsible, additional fees shall be charged in accordance with the
fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-37)
§ 150.032 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL; NOTICE TO UTILITY.
   (A)   After each required inspection, a notice shall be given to the permit
holder as to approval or disapproval, with a listing of required corrections if
there be any required. Electrical wiring shall not be covered or concealed
until after the work has been approved. Inspection shall be made by the
Electrical Inspector within 48 hours of the request for inspection by the
contractor. If the notice indicates that corrections are needed, the
corrections shall be made forthwith and the Electrical Inspector notified and a
reinspection requested.
   (B)   Upon final inspection of the electrical wiring and in compliance with
this code, a certificate of approval, if required, shall be issued to the
permit holder notifying them of the approval. It shall be unlawful for any
person to connect or reconnect any installation of electrical wiring, devices,
appliances or equipment to a source of supply until a certificate of approval
authorizing the connection has been issued by the Electrical Inspector or
unless a temporary release has been issued.
   (C)   When, in a building, the construction necessitates that connection of
the permanent service or source of supply be made prior to the final
inspection, a temporary release may be requested by the permit holder and be
issued by the Electrical Inspector, with notification given of a temporary
release to the utility. The release is of a temporary nature and shall be
superseded by a final inspection and a certificate of approval.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-38)
§ 150.033 REVOCATION OF PERMITS OR APPROVALS.
   The Electrical Inspector may revoke a permit or approval issued under the
provisions of this subchapter in cases where there has been any false statement
or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or plan on which
the permit or approval was based.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-39)
§ 150.034 WHERE RIGID RACEWAYS REQUIRED.
   Hotels, theaters, hospitals, institutional homes, schools, churches, public
buildings, fishing piers and commercial docks shall be wired with rigid
raceways.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-40)
§ 150.035 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   All temporary services shall be installed in rain tight switch or breakers.
All receptacles shall be three-wire grounded by type in weatherproof
enclosures. Service shall be grounded by means of an eight-foot driven ground
rod, with Underwriter's Laboratory approved ground clamp and number four copper
wire. Service installed on the public utility company's pole shall be in rigid
conduit. Any other poles used shall be four feet of length below ground and at
least 12 feet of length above ground, and shall have two braces.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-41)
§ 150.036 SERVICE ENTRANCE.
   (A)   Disconnect switches and breaker panels shall be installed in readily
accessible locations. In no case shall disconnect switches or breaker panels be
located in bathrooms, closets, under stairs, in cabinets or over basins, sinks
or stoves. Residential panel main disconnects shall be no more than five feet,
six inches above floor surface.
   (B)   A meter socket shall have only one feed to serve main disconnect
switches or panels.
   (C)   (1)   Neither aluminum nor Type T.W.R. or RH wire shall be used for
service entrance conductors. If a meter requires three or four wires, the
minimum size of conductors shall be number two; provided that the minimum size
for private residences shall be number four.
      (2)   Whenever existing meters or panel boards are changed or relocated,
conductors shall be increased to meet the minimum requirements. Service
conduits shall be fastened by straps and screws. Use of nails for such purpose
is prohibited. Straps and screws shall be galvanized or cadium plated where
exposed to weather.
   (D)   The minimum size of grounding conductor from meter socket to earth
shall be number four stranded. Insulated aluminum conduit may be used only if
all fittings are aluminum and all conductors installed in conduit are
insulated.
   (E)   PVC-Duit-Allowed for service entrance, provided conduit is strapped
with a two-hole device every three feet.
   (F)   Any device installed on the exterior of the structure or vertically
over conductive flooring shall be protected by ground fault interrupter (GFI).
   (G)   All coin operated machines using electricity for power source shall be
grounded in an approved manner.
   (H)   (1)   Electric tubing shall be permitted for meter service only where
not exposed to weather.
      (2)   All grounding shall be accomplished through an Underwriter's
Laboratory approved driven ground rod and clamp.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-42)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.037 SERVICE ALTERATIONS ON EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   If an existing meter service is changed, enlarged or relocated,
a minimum of four receptacles shall be installed in each room of the structure
excluding bathrooms.
      (2)   Kitchen receptacles shall be on two separate circuits.
   (B)   Whenever a service change involving the installation of an additional
meter is made in a structure, wiring and feeders on all meters and panels shall
be brought up to the minimum standards for service equipment.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-43)
§ 150.038 PANELS.
   All branch circuits panels containing more than six disconnects shall have a
main disconnect.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-45)
§ 150.039 ROMEX.
   All romex used shall be copper of the type with ground copper coordinator,
minimum gauge 12, allowing 12 for switch legs.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-46) (Am. Ord. 11-10, passed 6-22-10)
§ 150.040 RECEPTACLES.
   All receptacles used shall be a grounded type.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-47)
§ 150.041 APPLIANCES GENERALLY.
   The following regulations shall apply to the installation of appliances:
   (A)   Dryers. A minimum AWG ten with ground, three wire receptacle.
   (B)   Ranges. A minimum AWG six with ground, three wire receptacle.
   (C)   Water heaters. A minimum AWG ten with ground.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-48)
§ 150.042 CONDUIT ENTRANCE.
   The following regulations shall apply to conduit entrances;
   (A)   One-inch conduit, three No. 4 THW copper- 100-A, residences only.
   (B)   Commercial one and one-quarter inch conduit, three No. 2 THW copper-
100-A.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-49)
§ 150.043 LIABILITY OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR OR CITY OFFICIAL FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   No Electrical Inspector or city official charged with the enforcement
of this subchapter, acting for the city in the discharge of his or her duties,
shall thereby render himself or herself liable personally, and he or she is
hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to
person or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   Any suit brought against the Inspector or other city official because
of any act performed by them in the enforcement of any provision of this
subchapter shall be defended by the City Attorney at city expense until the
final termination of the proceedings.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-50)
§ 150.044 ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Electrical Inspector shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter,
and he or she, or his or her duly authorized representative, may enter any
building, structure or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this subchapter.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-51)
§ 150.045 REQUIREMENTS NOT COVERED BY CODE.
   Any requirement necessary for a safe, adequate, mechanical-like electrical
installation not specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the
Electrical Inspector and enforced.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-52)
§ 150.046 MINIMUM SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   Properties in all zoning districts shall have a minimum of 5,250 square feet
for septic systems.
(Ord. 02-99, passed 2-6-99)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 150.070 (RESERVED).
§ 150.071 DUCT STANDARDS.
   All exposed heating and air conditioning ducts will be constructed of sheet
metal or galvanized steel.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-72) (Ord. 85-28, passed 10-15-85)
GAS CODE
§ 150.085 VALVES ON HOUSE LINES; WORK TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED INSTALLERS.
   (A)   A lockable valve must be installed on the gas line on the house side
of all gas meters.
   (B)   Contractors properly licensed through SCLLR only are allowed to do gas
and gas piping work. Unlicensed contractors and property owners are not allowed
to do gas work.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-82) (Ord. 85-3, passed 2-19-85; Am. Ord. 13-20, passed 9-8-20)
§ 150.086 PENALTIES FOR STRIKING AND DAMAGING UTILITY LINES OR PIPES.
   Any party that strikes or damages a gas, electric, or water line in such a
way that results in a response and/or repair by the city, city contractors, or
utility provider shall be liable for all direct and indirect damages caused by
the party’s negligence or violation of this chapter, including any costs and
fees incurred by the city, city contractors, or utility providers. This does
not exclude other penalties as provided in this code of ordinances, including
penalties under the general penalty section (§
10.99)
(Ord. 13-20, passed 9-8-20)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 150.090 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZMAT) shall be defined as: any items or
chemical which can cause harm to people, plants, or animals when released by
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging,
injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing into the environment.
   (B)   In the event of a release or spill of any hazardous materials by the
actions of any party, that party will be strictly liable for any damages
arising from such release or spill, including any costs and fees incurred by
the city or the city’s contractors or supporting agencies in their efforts to
remediate the release or spill or otherwise mitigate any risks to life,
property, and/or the environment caused by such a spill or release, and also
including any attorney’s fees and litigation costs incurred by the city. The
Direct of Public Safety or his or her designee or an authorized fire official
shall have the sole authority to commit Folly Beach’s hazardous materials
resources.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 9-8-20)
UNFIT DWELLINGS
§ 150.100 INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURE TO DETERMINE UNFITNESS.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the city or Building Official by a
public authority or by at least five residents of the city charging that a
dwelling, or any portion thereof, is unfit for human habitation or whenever it
appears to the Building Official on his or her own motion that a dwelling, or
any portion thereof, is unfit for human habitation, the Building Official shall
make a preliminary investigation.
   (B)   If the Building Official’s preliminary investigation discloses a basis
for such charges, the Building Official shall issue and cause to be served upon
the owner of and all parties in interest in such dwelling a complaint stating
the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held
before the Building Official or his or her designated agent at a place therein
fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of such
complaint.
   (C)   The owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony
at the place and time fixed in the complaint. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
public officer.
   (D)   If, after such notice and hearing, the Building Official determines
that the dwelling under consideration, or any portion thereof, is unfit for
human habitation, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact
in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon
the owner thereof, and posted at the dwelling, an order to vacate and close the
dwelling, or any portion thereof determined to be unfit for human habitation
and informing the owner and occupants that utility services to the dwelling may
be terminated. In addition:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, the order
shall require the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair,
alter or improve such dwelling to render it fit for human habitation or to
vacate and close the dwelling as a human habitation; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, the order
shall require the owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or
demolish such dwelling.
   (E)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Building Official may cause such
dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed at the
owner’s costs and expense. The Building Official may cause to be posted on the
main entrance of any dwelling so closed, a placard with the following words:
“This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this
building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.” The order may apply
to the entire dwelling or any portion thereof.
   (F)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
dwelling, the Building Official may cause such dwelling to be removed or
demolished.
   (G)   The amount of the cost of such repairs, alterations or improvements,
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Building Official shall
be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred and shall
be collectible in the same manner as municipal taxes.
   (H)   If the city in demolishing unfit dwellings as permitted by this
subchapter contracts with a third party not employed by the city to do the
work, it must bid the work in conformity with the purchasing procedures set
forth in §§ 36.15 et seq.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-30) (Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.101 STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING FITNESS OF DWELLING FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   The Building Official may determine that a dwelling, or any portion thereof,
is unfit for human habitation if he or she finds that conditions exist in such
dwelling which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of
the occupants of such dwelling, the occupants of neighboring dwellings, or
other residents of the city. Such conditions include but are not limited to the
following:
   (A)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities; lack of adequate ventilation or light;
   (B)   Unsafe electrical, water, or sewer facilities;
   (C)   Lack of fresh water from a South Carolina Department of Health and
Environmental Control approved well or from a public water system supplied to
the individual building through an on-site water meter;
   (D)   Lack of on-site sanitary waste disposal provided by a South Carolina
Department of Health and Environmental Control approved septic system or from
an approved private or public sewer system;
   (E)   Dilapidation, disrepair, or uncleanliness;
   (F)   Structural defects, including a failure to comply with applicable
building codes, including Section 108.1.5 of the most current adopted
International Property Maintenance Code, or local, state, or national law; and
   (G)   The property on which the dwelling is built is unstable because of
erosion, subsidence, inundation, or other natural forces.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-50) (Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.102 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS OR ORDERS; POSTING AND FILING COPIES.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Building Official shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered mail. If the whereabouts of such
persons is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Building Official in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Building Official shall make an
affidavit to that effect, then the serving of such complaint or order upon such
persons may be made by publishing it once each week for two consecutive weeks
in a newspaper printed and published in Charleston County and circulated in the
city. In addition, a copy of such complaint or order shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order. A copy of
such complaint or order shall also be filed with the Charleston County Clerk of
Court in which the dwelling is located, and such filing of the complaint or
order shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices
provided by law. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface or
otherwise tamper with any posted complaint or order.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-60) (Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.103 APPEAL TO CONSTRUCTION AND FIRE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by an order issued by the Building Official
pursuant to this subchapter may, within 30 days after the posting and serving
of the order by the Building Official, appeal the decision to the Construction
and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
   (B)   A hearing shall be had by the Construction and Fire Board of
Adjustments and Appeals within 30 days. The person requesting the hearing shall
be the moving party and shall have the burden of proof by the greater weight of
the evidence. The Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals will
apply the standards set forth herein and shall have the right to uphold, modify
or reverse the decision of the Building Official in accordance with those
standards.
   (C)   The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not
be controlling in hearings before the Construction and Fire Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
(Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.104 RIGHTS OF PERSONS AFFECTED BY ORDERS.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the Building Official may within
sixty days after the posting and service of the order petition the circuit
court for an injunction restraining the Building Official from carrying out the
provisions of the order, and the court may, upon such petition, issue a
temporary injunction restraining the Building Official pending the final
disposition of the cause. Hearings shall be had by the court on such petitions
within 20 days or as soon thereafter as possible and shall be given preference
over other matters on the court’s calendar. The court shall hear and determine
the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice
may require. In all such proceedings the findings of the public officer as to
facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive. Costs shall be in the
discretion of the court. The remedies herein provided shall be exclusive
remedies, and no person affected by an order of the Building Official shall be
entitled to recover any damages for action taken pursuant to any order of the
Building Official or because of compliance by such person with any order of the
Building Official.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-70) (Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.105 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions
of this subchapter, including the following powers in addition to others
granted in this subchapter and Code of Ordinances:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in order to determine which
dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises in accordance with Chapter 40: Duties and
Powers of Code Officials for the purpose of making examinations, provided such
entries be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to
the persons in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees
as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter;
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
subchapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate;
   (F)   To issue building permits for repairs to the dwelling;
   (G)   To revoke a certificate of occupancy;
   (H)   To secure the dwelling to prevent entry;
   (I)   To authorize temporary repairs or safeguards to make the dwelling more
safe or temporarily fit for human habitation while permanent repairs are made;
and
   (J)   To rescind or dismiss orders in whole or in part after the dwelling is
rendered fit for human habitation following repairs.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-80) (Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.106 SALE OF MATERIALS OF REMOVED OR DEMOLISHED DWELLING.
   If a dwelling is removed or demolished by order of the Building Official, he
or she shall attempt to sell the materials of such dwelling and shall credit
the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the circuit court by the Building
Official, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court, and
shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by
final order or decree of such court.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-90) (Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.107 PROHIBITIONS ON VACATED DWELLINGS.
   (A)   After an order to vacate a dwelling, or any portion thereof, has been
issued by the Building Official and posted on the dwelling in accordance with
this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Reside in such dwelling or the portion ordered vacated;
      (2)   Enter the dwelling or the portion ordered vacated except with the
prior written authorization of the Building Official to perform repairs or
demolish the structure. No such person shall reside in the dwelling or the
portion ordered vacated; and
      (3)   Rent or lease the dwelling or portion ordered vacated or otherwise
allow any other person to use the dwelling or portion ordered vacated;
      (4)   To remove, deface, or tamper with any complaint, order or other
notice posted by the Building Official pursuant to this subchapter;
      (5)   To re-connect or attempt to re-connect any utility services
terminated by the Building Official; or
      (6)   To otherwise interfere with the enforcement of this subchapter by
the Building Official, public safety, or any agent of the city.
   (B)   These provisions remain in effect during the appeal of the Building
Official’s order to the Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
(Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.108 TERMINATION OF UTILITIES.
   If the owner or any person occupying the dwelling fails to comply with an
order to vacate and close the dwelling, or any portion thereof, the Building
Official may contact any utility company serving the premises and direct the
utility company to discontinue service to the dwelling, or any portion thereof,
until further notice from the city. The Building Official shall notify the
occupants of the dwelling of the intent to terminate utility services by
posting a notice of same at the dwelling and, if possible, by providing the
occupants in-person notice.
(Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.109 EMERGENCY VACATE ORDER AND TERMINATION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   If the Building Official determines that a dwelling, or any portion
thereof, presents an imminent danger to the life or health of the occupants, or
is in imminent danger of failure or collapse, or when any dwelling or part of
any dwelling has collapsed, failed, or fallen, or any other grounds referenced
in Section 109 of the most current adopted International Property Maintenance
Code, the Building Official is hereby authorized and empowered to immediately
order and require the occupants to vacate the dwelling, or any portion thereof.
Upon a finding of imminent danger, the Building Official will cause to be
posted at each entrance to such dwelling, a notice reading: “This building is
unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   Upon a finding of imminent danger, and after posting the notice
required by this section, as well as a notice of intent to terminate utility
services, and, if possible, notifying the occupants in person, the Building
Official may also contact any utility company serving the premises and direct
the utility company to discontinue service to the dwelling, or any portion
thereof, until further notice from the city.
   (C)   Following an emergency order under this section, the Building Official
shall undertake to notify the owner and occupants of the dwelling of the
emergency order in writing as soon as practical thereafter and shall schedule
the hearing required under this subchapter at the earliest convenience of the
owner.
(Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
§ 150.110 SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS ARE CUMULATIVE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair the
powers of the Building Official or the city to enforce any provisions of the
city’s ordinances, or to prevent or punish violations thereof, and the powers
conferred by this subchapter shall be in addition and supplemental to the
powers conferred by any other law.
(S.C. Code § 31-15-120) (Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.120 BUILDING OFFICIAL ESTABLISHED; DUTIES.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established the Office of Building
Official. The Building Official shall be appointed by and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor. He or she shall be responsible for enforcement of the
technical codes adopted in this chapter, except the electrical code which shall
be enforced by the Electrical Inspector.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-1)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Building Official is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-14)
      (2)   Duties of the Building Official shall include, but not be limited
to:
         (a)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Advise the permittee that additional federal or state permits
may be required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require
that copies of the permits be provided and maintained on file with the
development permit;
         (c)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Coastal Council prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of the
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
         (d)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
         (e)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved buildings, in accordance with §
152.41; and
         (f)   Verify that the height; lot coverage; heated square footage;
setbacks from property lines and setbacks from the SCDES critical line, and
SCDES baseline are met. The Building Official shall require as- built
certification in the form of a site plan from a registered professional
surveyor, engineer, or architect that any new or substantially improved
structure meets the applicable zoning requirements prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy (C.O.).
         (g)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with §
152.41.
            1.   In coastal hazard areas, certification shall be obtained from
a registered professional engineer or architect that the buildings is designed
to be securely anchored to adequately anchored pilings or columns in order to
withstand velocity waters and hurricane wave wash.
            2.   In coastal high hazard areas, the Building Official shall
review plans for adequacy of breakaway walls in accordance with § 151.26.
            3.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular building, the
Building Official shall obtain certification from a registered professional
engineer or architect, in accordance with § 151.26.
            4.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Building Official shall make the necessary interpretation as
provided in this chapter. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in this chapter.
            5.   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.07, then the Building Official shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation data available from a federal, state or other source,
in order to administer the provisions of §
151.25.
            6.   Before a certificate of occupancy is issued for the structure,
the Building Official shall inspect the premises to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been met.
            7.   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the Office of the Building Official and shall be open for
public inspection.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-16) (Am. Ord. 37-16, passed 1-10-17; Am. Ord. 12-19, passed 2-
11-19; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
§ 150.121 APPEALS HEARD BY CONSTRUCTION AND FIRE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND
APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Official may appeal the
decision to the Construction and Fire Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-2) (Am. Ord. 85-24, passed 12-3-85; Am. Ord. 34-16, passed 11-
8-16)
§ 150.122 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the city determines that the project is not being carried out in
accordance with the approved plan, or that any project subject to this chapter
is being carried out without approval, the Building Official, after notifying
the City Council in writing, is authorized to:
   (A)   Issue a stop-work order directing the applicant or owner to cease and
desist all or any portion of the work which violates the provisions of this
chapter;
   (B)   Issue written notice to the owner specifying the nature and location
of the alleged noncompliance, with a description of the remedial actions
necessary to bring the project into compliance within a reasonable specified
time; and/or
   (C)   Should the applicant or owner not bring the project into compliance
with the written notice and stop-work order, he or she shall then be subject to
immediate revocation of his or her building permit and to the penalties
described in §
10.99.
(`95 Code, § 5-8-27) (Am. Ord. 35-19, passed 1-14-20)
CHAPTER 151: BEACH PRESERVATION AND CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS
Section
Beaches Generally
   
151.01   Operation on beaches
   
151.02   Sand dunes; protection and preservation
   
151.03   Destruction of sea oats prohibited
   
151.04   Congested areas; endangering crowds; swimming zone
   
151.05    Surfboards, skimboards, personal watercraft, and other watercraft
   
151.06   Renting rafts, floats and the like; prohibited sizes
   
151.07   Groin and pier areas; prohibited activities
   
151.08   Glass containers, plastic bags, balloons, and certain expanded
polystyrene foam products prohibited on beach
   
151.09   Holes on the beachfront
   
151.10   Reserved
   
151.11   Stowing boats and watercraft on beach
   
151.12   Planting of Beach Vitex
   
151.13   Littering and abandonment of personal property prohibited on the beach
   
151.14   Use of the beach
   
151.15   No smoking on the beach and beach accesses
Construction Provisions
   
151.20   Access to beach during construction; protection
   
151.21   Beach protection; erosion control line
   
151.22   Alterations in line
   
151.23   Construction standards for erosion and flood control
   
151.24   Special requirements for construction seaward of the baseline
   
151.25   Dune walkovers
Beach Preservation
   
151.35   Areas of preservation
   
151.36   Maintenance and preservation
   
151.37   Construction prohibited in certain areas
   
151.38   Definitions
   
151.39   Beach preservation fee
Protection of Loggerhead Sea Turtles
   
151.45   Definitions
   
151.46   Purpose
   
151.47   New development; exemptions
   
151.48   Existing development
   
151.49   Publicly owned lighting
   
151.50   Penalties and enforcement
Property Owner Elevation Maintenance
   
151.60   Purpose
   
151.61   Duty of beachfront property owners
   
151.62   Notice to property owners
   
151.63   Right of entry
   
151.64   Presentation and payment of bill; lien
   
151.65   Request for hearing
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Removal of waste, see §
95.18
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 OPERATION ON BEACHES.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on the beach. This section shall not
apply to authorized emergency vehicles. The beach shall be defined as being any
area south of the last paved street adjacent to the Atlantic Ocean.
(`95 Code, § 8-2-2)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.02 SAND DUNES; PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION.
   It shall be unlawful to damage, destroy, alter, level or remove any sand
dune or any part thereof within the city, or any vegetation, shrubbery, trees
on the sand dune or beaches within the city without having first obtained a
written permit from the city in accordance with the guideline and requirements
of the City Council. The presence of any person, vehicle, cart or watercraft,
on the sand dunes without permit shall be unlawful.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-6)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.03 DESTRUCTION OF SEA OATS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break or otherwise destroy sea
oat plants or any part thereof on public or private property within the city.
Any person violating the provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished. Each violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(`95 Code, § 9-3-7) (Am. Ord. passed 11-2-79)
Penalty, see § 151.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-11-590
§ 151.04 CONGESTED AREAS; ENDANGERING CROWDS; SWIMMING ZONE.
   (A)   Any activity in a congested area on the front beach or other public
area that endangers the safety of the crowd is prohibited, including surfing
among swimmers and various ball games on the beach.
   (B)   There is hereby created a “swimming zone” which shall extend in the
water area of the Atlantic Ocean from 3rd Street East to 3rd Street West. This
zone is designated for the enjoyment and safety of individuals who want to
swim, play, or just stand inthe ocean. No other activity shall be allowed in
said zone. Said zone shall be hereinafter referred to as the swimming zone.
   (C)   Swimming must be within 50 yards of shore and no more than chest deep.
This limitation does not apply to surfing. Swimmers and waders must be at least
200 feet from the pier or a distance set at the discretion of the lifeguards to
ensure swimmers’ and waders’ safety.
   (D)   There shall be no surf fishing in the designated swimming zone. It
shall be unlawful for any person to catch or take, or attempt to catch or take
any shark or other marine animals that may endanger the public from designated
swimming zone.
   (E)   There shall be persons duly appointed as ocean rescue lifeguards, or
deputies or public safety officers who shall have the power and authority to
supervise and regulate surf fishing, physical activities and swimming on front
beach, strand and the Atlantic Ocean within the jurisdiction of the city, and
in such areas shall have the responsibility to maintain peace and order. Such
ocean rescue lifeguards, deputies or public safety officers shall have the
power and authority to recall from the ocean waters and the surf adjoining the
waters any person who shall be in the ocean waters a distance of more than 50
yards from the point where the waters adjoin the strand, or who shall be more
than chest deep at any time, or when such person shall be in danger of drowning
or becoming imperiled or may imperil the safety of others, all of which shall
be determined in the discretion of such deputies, police officers or ocean
rescue lifeguards authorized by them.
   (F)   Such personnel shall have the authority to recall from the ocean
waters any person who shall be in the ocean waters at any distance at any time
when the condition of the wind, water, weather or any hazard, including the
physical or mental condition of the person in the ocean waters, shall be such,
in the discretion of such personnel as described in this section, as to
constitute a danger to the health, life, or safety of such person or other
persons within such ocean waters.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the instructions of any
ocean rescue lifeguard, deputy, or public safety officer authorized by the city
with regard to activities on the beach and in the ocean.
   (H)   No unauthorized person shall climb, sit, stand or cause someone else
to climb, sit or stand on any ocean rescue lifeguard station or ladder unless
told to do so by an ocean rescue lifeguard or other city authorized personnel.
   (I)   No person shall tamper with lifesaving equipment, structures, signs or
buoys on the beach or in the ocean.
   (J)   No person shall cause a false rescue or call for help when it is not
needed, or to cause an ocean rescue lifeguard to enter the water upon a false
rescue, or to leave his or her tower or to have his or her attention drawn to a
false alarm.
   (K)   No person shall willfully resist, delay or obstruct any ocean rescue
lifeguard in the discharge or attempt to discharge any duty of his or her
position.
   (L)   Beach umbrellas and other beach paraphernalia which might obstruct the
view of the ocean rescue lifeguard will be placed at a distance of at least ten
feet to the rear (inland side) of the ocean rescue lifeguard stands. No
obstruction shall be placed in such a position that it interferes with an ocean
rescue lifeguard's ability to see the water and the ocean rescue lifeguard
stands on either side of him or her. The ocean rescue lifeguard shall locate
the ocean rescue lifeguard stand according to the tides to insure public safety
for sun bathers and beach walkers and has the authority to direct any person to
move any beach equipment if the ocean rescue lifeguard stand has to be moved
because of the tide, so as to not violate this section.
   (M)   No person shall ride, use or otherwise employ a surfboard in or upon
the Atlantic Ocean within 200 feet of any portion of any pier; nor shall a
person ride, use or otherwise employ a boat or other vessel or otherwise be in
or upon the Atlantic Ocean within 300 feet of any portion of any pier. The
prohibition of this section shall not apply to ocean rescue lifeguards or other
emergency personnel acting in the course of official duty.
(`95 Code, § 9-5-2) (Am. Ord. 14-08, passed 7-22-08; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 3-
8-15) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 SURFBOARDS, SKIMBOARDS, PERSONAL WATERCRAFT, AND OTHER WATERCRAFT.
   (A)   No person shall use or assist anyone in using any device commonly
known as a “surfboard”, “skimboard”, “paddle board”,”kayak”, “kiteboard”,
“windsurfboard”, or any other apparatus or device of a hard or solid nature
similar to and used for the purposes for which the aforementioned are generally
used (hereinafter collectively referred to as a surfboard) within the swimming
zone from May 15 through September 15 between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. In the event that surf conditions are deemed unsafe for swimming and
posted as such by the appropriate authorities, surfboards are permitted in the
swimming zone regardless of the date or time.
      (1)   From September 16 through May 14, there is no area where surfing is
restricted on Folly Island, except surfing is always prohibited within 200 feet
of any fishing pier which now exists or hereafter is erected or built.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a surfboard, sailboat,
motor boat, personal watercraft (as defined below), or any other device or
craft in a manner as to become or present a hazard to bathers, swimmers,
surfers and other persons in the waters along the public beach or to fail,
neglect, or refuse to keep his or her surfboard, sailboat, motorboat, or
personal watercraft under reasonable control at all times.
   (B)   At all times of the year persons surfing are required to wear a surf
leash attaching the surfboard to the surfer, which device is intended to
prevent the surfboard from being separated from, getting away from, or out of
the immediate control of the surfer.
   (C)   Personal watercraft defined. For the purpose of this section, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. A boat less than 16 feet in length which:
         (a)   Has an outboard motor or an inboard motor which uses an internal
combustion engine powering a water jet pump as its primary source of
propulsion;
         (b)   Is designed with the concept that the operator and passenger
ride on the outside surfaces of the vessel as opposed to riding inside the
vessel;
         (c)   Has the probability that the operator and passenger, in the
normal course of use, may fall overboard.
         (d)   A vessel commonly known as a "jet ski".
      PERSONAL WATERCRAFT includes, without limitation, a vessel where the
operator and passenger ride on the outside surfaces of the vessel, even if the
primary source of motive propulsion is a propeller.
   (D)   Personal watercraft, whether commercial or personally owned, shall be
launched and beached only at permitted sites. Permitted sites are defined as:
      (1)   The boat ramp on the Folly River;
      (2)   Two boat launching lanes, 50 feet wide each, shall be located, the
first, east of the swimming zone directly oceanside of the 2nd Street East
right-of- way and beach access, and the second, west of the swimming zone
directly oceanside of the 3rd Street West right-of-way and beach access; and
      (3)   Any other location approved by City Council.
   (E)   All personal watercraft must go straight in and straight out of the
launching lane, operating at idle speed and no faster than necessary to
maintain control, and not generate or cause a wake or exceed five miles per
hour, whichever is less. Commercial operators (hereinafter "vendors") must
provide one employee within the launching lane to catch and release incoming
and outgoing personal watercraft. These employees must be in the water when
personal watercraft rented by their companies are approaching or exiting.
   (F)   All personal watercraft must be operated ocean side of the fishing
pier, but within binocular viewing range of the vendor's observation point.
   (G)   All state ordinances regulating personal watercraft must be followed.
   (H)   No person under the age of 16 years shall operate a personal
watercraft, unless such person has certification of completion of a boater
safety course offered by the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources, or
any other similar governmental entity from the person's home state. Persons age
16 and over must have a driver's license.
   (I)   Before a personal watercraft may be operated within the boundaries of
the City of Folly Beach, all personal watercraft owners shall first apply for a
motorized watercraft license for a fee of $25. The motorized watercraft license
shall be a number assigned to all personal watercraft which shall be affixed to
said personal watercraft in such a manner as to be visible from shore. In
addition to the number, all vendors shall also affix the name of the business
on both sides of the personal watercraft in six-inch letters of contrasting
color with that of the personal watercraft. The motorized watercraft license
also serves as permission for vendors to store commercial personal watercraft
on the beach in an unobtrusive way during months when in business, provided
permission is granted on an annual basis by the Code Enforcement Officer.
Methods of storage must be approved by the Code Enforcement Officer as to
location and appearance. Complaints by residents and property owners about the
storage location, appearance, or maintenance may be taken into account as to
whether permission is granted. All personal watercraft must be removed from the
beach prior to any tropical storm or hurricane.
   (J)   All employees of vendors shall be certified in CPR. Vendors shall
provide, maintain, and train all employees in the use of an automated external
defibrillator ("AED") . CPR certification and proof of ownership of AED shall
be presented when a vendor applies for a City of Folly Beach license.
   (K)   Vendors shall have one CPR certified employee with no additional
responsibilities to watch their company's personal watercraft from shore with
binoculars. Vendors shall also have one personal watercraft in reserve at all
times to be used to assist, contact, or otherwise reach their company's
personal watercraft.
   (L)   Vendors are required to enter into a contract with the City of Folly
Beach (see §
151.60).
   (M)   Vendors shall adhere to certain requirements for renters of personal
watercraft and to give minimum instruction to said renters. These requirements
are more fully described in a contract between the city and the vendor.
   (N)   Alcohol and drug use are strictly prohibited by all employees of
vendor prior to and while on duty, and all operators of personal watercraft.
   (O)   Insurance as set forth in the contract must be maintained by the
vendor. A minimum of $1,000,000 in liability coverage is required.
   (P)   Personal watercraft expressly do not have the right of way. All
personal watercraft must yield to swimmers, surfers, non-motorized boats,
kiteboards, or boogie boards.
   (Q)   Personal watercraft are not permitted to be launched or beached when
the ranking officer of the Folly Beach Public Safety Department or the Chief
Lifeguard for the Charleston County Parks and Recreation Commission deem their
presence or operation to be unsafe. Such designation may be due to high surf,
high wind, number of swimmers, or any other condition which would render the
operation of personal watercraft unsafe.
   (R)   Commercial personal watercraft must be replaced by vendor every four
years, or when such personal watercraft are deemed a threat to the environment
by the Code Enforcement Officer, whichever is sooner. All commercial personal
watercraft must be the most environmentally sensitive (as determined by miles
per gallon of fuel, oil usage, discharge of fumes/contaminants, best engine
capabilities, and any other environmental criteria in the industry at the time)
available at the time of purchase by the vendor.
   (S)   Motorized vehicles used by vendor to transport personal watercraft or
renters thereof may only be parked on the beach next to the area permitted for
storage of the personal watercraft, if any, in an unobtrusive and secure
manner, and as approved by the Code Enforcement Officer. Otherwise, motorized
vehicles may not be parked or stored on the beach. Such vehicle must not cross
any dunes and must have a low environmental impact. Use of motorized vehicles
must be limited to business activities only, and routes taken must correlate
closely to business need (such as transporting trailers with personal
watercraft directly to the water or storage site, delivering riders to the
launch lane.) Motorized vehicles may not be used by non-vendors to transport
personal watercraft.
   (T)   Commercial personal watercraft and any motorized vehicles owned by a
vendor must be available for use in emergencies by Public Safety or other
emergency personnel.
(`95 Code, § 7-3-1) (Am. Ord. 2-95, passed 4-4-95; Am. Ord. 08-08, passed 8-26-
08; Am. Ord. 11-12, passed 4-24-12)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.06 RENTING RAFTS, FLOATS AND THE LIKE; PROHIBITED SIZES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent any life raft, float or other
similar device which is larger than rafts known as one-man life rafts.
(`95 Code, § 7-3-2)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.07 GROIN AND PIER AREAS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Surfing or swimming is hereby prohibited within 50 feet of any groin
and within 200 feet of the pier. Fishing from or walking on any groin is also
hereby prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person involved in attempting to catch or
take, or catch or take any shark or other marine animals that may endanger the
public from the pier.
   (C)   Any person(s) who surf fishes outside of the swim zone or conducts
fishing of any type from a pier at any time of the year, shall not fish in a
manner that presents an unsafe condition to any beach goers, sun bathers,
swimmers, or any other person and shall keep a safe distance from them.
   (D)   Any person who surf fishes must obtain a valid South Carolina issued
surf fishing license in accordance with South Carolina state law.
(`95 Code, § 7-3-3) (Am. Ord. 03-98, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 3-
8-16) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 GLASS CONTAINERS, PLASTIC BAGS, BALLOONS, AND CERTAIN EXPANDED
POLYSTYRENE FOAM PRODUCTS PROHIBITED ON BEACH.
   (A)   All glass containers and cans are prohibited on the beach, with the
exception that cans are allowed in coolers. However, all cans must remain in
the cooler at all times provided cans may be removed briefly for the purpose of
transferring the contents to a paper or plastic cup.
   (B)   All single-use plastic carryout bags, all balloons, and all plates,
bowls, cups, containers, lids, trays, coolers, ice chests, and similar articles
that consist of expanded polystyrene foam (also known as "Styrofoam"™) are
prohibited on the beach.
(`95 Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. 84-22, passed 12-18-84; Am. Ord. 23-11, passed 7-12-
11; Am. Ord. 31-16, passed10-18-16) Penalty, see §
151.99
Cross-reference: 
   See §
112.02 for definition of "single-use plastic carryout bag"
§ 151.09 HOLES ON THE BEACHFRONT.
   (A)   No persons shall dig any hole to a depth of greater than 12 inches.
   (B)   Anyone digging a hole or creating a structure on the beach must
restore the sand to its natural condition before leaving the beach but in no
case not later than 30 minutes prior to sunset as stated by the National
Weather Service.
   (C)   (1)   Shovels, except those that are intended for use by children, are
prohibited on the beach. Metal shovels of any type are prohibited on the beach.
      (2)   Exemptions. Authorized persons to include: members of the Folly
Turtle Watch performing work related to turtle habitats, city employees
performing work related to beach preservation, and others approved by the city.
   (D)   Anyone in violation of the regulations listed above in divisions (A)
through (C) will be subject to the general penalties stated in §
10.99)
(Ord. 21-19, passed 6-11-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.10 RESERVED.
§ 151.11 STOWING BOATS AND WATERCRAFT ON BEACH.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare by:
      (1)   Prohibiting long-term stowage of boats and other watercraft on the
public beach, where their safe storage is threatened by storms, high tides,
erosion and hurricanes;
      (2)   Prohibiting on-going destruction of the dune system from long-term
boat and watercraft stowage on the beach.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOAT or WATERCRAFT. Any wooden, fiberglass, plastic or metal raft, row
boat, motorboat, sailboat, mobile cat, wind surfboard, catamaran, skull, kayak,
jet ski or waverunner.
      PUBLIC BEACH. All that area seaward of the ocean baseline, roughly
defined as any area seaward of existing seawalls bordering the Atlantic Ocean,
including all primary and secondary sand dunes, also to include any public
access or public beach walkway.
   (C)   No person owning, possessing or controlling a boat or other watercraft
shall place or allow it to be placed on the public beach for any period in
excess of 12 hours or at any time after sunset.
   (D)   The bringing onto or removal from the beach of any boat or watercraft
which results in damage to primary or secondary dunes, or damage to sea oat or
dune vegetation, is prohibited. Any boat or watercraft which is placed or
located at any time atop any primary or secondary dunes shall be fined $500 and
may be subject to immediate impoundment.
   (E)   The Public Safety Department is hereby authorized to remove and tow
away, or have removed and towed away, any boat or watercraft in violation of
this section. In addition to the penalties provided fro in §
151.99, the owner shall pay all costs incurred by the city or its designee in
the impoundment and storage of such boat or watercraft.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-21-95; Am. Ord. 30-06, 7-25-06; Am. Ord. 24-10, as
amended, passed 10-26-10; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 12-8-15) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 PLANTING OF BEACH VITEX.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or cause to be planted
Vitex rotundifolia, commonly known as Beach Vitex, on any property located in
the city.
   (B)   If upon inspection, Beach Vitex is found to be planted or growing on
any property located in the city, the city shall have the right to enter the
property and remove the plant.
   (C)   No action shall be taken without due notification of the property
owner.
(Ord. 44-05, passed 7-26-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.13 LITTERING AND ABANDONMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED ON THE
BEACH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or leave any trash,
rubbish or other debris of any kind whatsoever on the beaches of the city
unless such trash, rubbish or other debris is deposited in a trash receptacle
placed on or near the beach for such purpose.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or abandon any personal
property of any kind whatsoever on the beaches of the city unless such property
is deposited in a trash receptacle placed on or near the beach for such
purpose.
(Ord. 24-08, passed 8-26-08)
§ 151.14 USE OF THE BEACH.
   (A)   Tents, canopies, beach chairs, kites, volleyball nets, coolers, beach
umbrellas, boats or other watercraft, and similar property, which are left on
the beach after sunset, shall be deemed abandoned and the City of Folly Beach
shall have the right to take possession of the property. The property shall
belong to, and be subject to disposal by, the City of Folly Beach.
   (B)   No personal property, boat or other watercraft shall be located within
25 feet of any emergency beach access or any turtle nest.
(Ord. 24-08, passed 8-26-08; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 12-8-15)
§ 151.15 NO SMOKING ON THE BEACH AND BEACH ACCESSES.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited on the beach and at beach access points.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter smoking shall be defined as the
carrying or holding of a lighted or activated pipe, cigar, cigarette,
electronic smoking device, or any other lighted or activated smoking product or
equipment used to burn any tobacco product, plant, or any other combustible
substance. Smoking includes emitting or exhaling the fumes or vapor of any
pipe, cigar, cigarette, electronic smoking device, or any other lighted smoking
equipment used for burning any tobacco product, plant, or any other combustible
substance.
   (C)   No person shall dispose of any cigarette, cigar, tobacco, or smoking
product or equipment or any part thereof, on any beach or beach access point,
except in a designated waste disposal container. Violations hereof are also
punishable as violations of § 151.13, and subject to any criminal, civil or
other legal remedies established by law that may be pursued to address
littering and violations of the municipal code.
   (D)   The Public Safety Department, as well as all code enforcement
personnel, shall have the power to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (E)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an infraction, and be subject to
a fine of $25 for the first violation; $50 for a second violation within one
year; and $100 for a third and subsequent violations within one year.
(Ord. 07-21, passed 3-10-2021)
CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS
§ 151.20 ACCESS TO BEACH DURING CONSTRUCTION; PROTECTION.
   (A)   Any individual or contractor who desires to use an access to the beach
will place in the access portable metal or wood mats for the purpose of moving
equipment or material on the beach.
   (B)   The contractor or individual will remove the mats as soon as he or she
no longer needs them to move equipment or material.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-19) (Ord. 78-8, passed 7-18-78)
§ 151.21 BEACH PROTECTION; EROSION CONTROL LINE.
   Upon approval of the erosion control line by the State Coastal Council,
permits for erosion control structures will be provisioned so that structures
will be located at the erosion control line as shown on the maps, hereby
incorporated by reference and available at the Coastal Council office and at
City Hall.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-20) (Ord. 83-10, passed 8-2-83)
§ 151.22 ALTERATIONS IN LINE.
   (A)   The erosion control line may be extended or modified as conditions
warrant. Any change must be approved by the city and the State Coastal Council
after a public notice period of 30 days.
   (B)   Changes will then be recorded on the base maps.
(`95 Code, § 5-3-21) (Ord. 83-10, passed 8-2-83)
§ 151.23 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR EROSION AND FLOOD CONTROL.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      BERM. A flood control device constructed of compacted earth, soil, or
sand, which may be used independently or to cover riprap.
      BULKHEAD. A vertical erosion control device intended to protect property
from erosion and flooding installed on high ground within 15 feet of the
critical line as defined by SCDES.
      PERPETUAL EASEMENT LINE. The landward edge of the federal beach
renourishment project as defined by the Army Corps of Engineers.
      RETAINING WALL. A vertical erosion control or stabilization device
intended to protect property from erosion and flooding installed on high ground
landward of the critical line setback.
      REVETMENT. Sloping material installed seaward of a seawall facing the
oceanfront baseline as defined by SCDES.
      RIPRAP. Sloping material installed on the side of the bulkhead facing the
marsh front critical line as defined by SCDES or as the foundation of a berm.
      SEAWALL. A vertical erosion control device intended to protect property
from wave erosion and flooding installed on high ground which is adjacent to
the oceanfront baseline as defined by SCDES.
   (B)   Minimum construction standards for all erosion control devices.
      (1)   New or substantially improved erosion control devices cannot be
combined in a manner that would compound flooding, significantly impair
drainage, cause adjacent shoreline impacts, or cause any negative impacts to
dune or marsh growth. However, mixed use of erosion control methods dictated by
site conditions on property can be permissible in the same contiguous linear
plane.
      (2)   Any erosion control device placed wholly or in part within the Dune
Management Area or the critical line setback must be maintained in an intact
condition or removal may be required at the owner's expense.
      (3)   Construction of erosion control devices, as well as the placement
of riprap and revetments, shall require a permit from the city and proof of
location behind the SCDES critical line or baseline in the form of a pre-
construction survey with an SCDES certified critical line or baseline location
and an as-built survey showing as-built improvement and the certified baseline
or critical line as applicable.
      (4)   No portion of an erosion control device, riprap, or revetment shall
be placed seaward of the baseline or beyond the critical line.
      (5)   Construction or repair of erosion control devices on the beach from
May 1 through October 31 is subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   The building permit holder must contact the Folly Beach Turtle
Watch Permit Holder each day prior to the commencement of work. The Folly Beach
Turtle Watch Permit Holder will provide verification that there are no active
turtle nests in the work area. Verification will be provided prior to 8:00 a.m.
         (b)   If an active nest is in the work area, work must stop until the
nest is relocated. If a turtle nest located in the work area is established
before permitted work begins and can not be relocated, construction cannot
begin until the nest hatches.
         (c)   The work area shall be defined as the area within 25 feet of the
location of the seawall or the path used to access the site.
   (C)   Minimum construction standards for seawalls and revetments.
      (1)   No new or substantially improved vertical unfaced seawall shall be
allowed on the ocean front.
      (2)   Any new or substantially improved vertical seawall surface must
maintain a setback of at least 25 feet from the perpetual easement line except
that a new or substantially improved vertical seawall surface located seaward
of a habitable structure closer than 25 feet from the PEL shall be placed as
close the structure as is feasible.
      (3)   New or substantially improved seawalls and associated revetments
placed wholly or partly within the Dune Management Area must be constructed so
that the top of the vertical seawall is at an elevation of eight feet NA VD 88.
      (4)   Any area with in the Dune Management Area disturbed for the
construction or repair of a seawall or revetment shall be filled such that the
finished grade of the area of disturbance is at an elevation of ten feet NAVD
88 and planted with appropriate vegetation as designated by the Building
Official.
      (5)   Seawalls shall be designed by a certified design professional,
registered in the state and shall meet the following minimum standards:
         (a)   Seawalls shall be constructed of either:
            1.   Reinforced concrete six inches thick designed with adequate
reinforcement to achieve a 3,000 psi 28-day strength, or
            2.   Pressure treated wood three inches by ten inches or three
inches by 12 inches tongue and groove, or a double thickness of two inches
sheeting with staggered joints is acceptable for walls with a standing height
of under four feet.
         (b)   The depth of embedment of a seawall shall be at least equal the
height of the wall above the ground. An allowance should be made to account for
erosion scour after construction.
         (c)   Tiebacks shall be located at a spacing of eight feet or less and
attached to secure anchors capable of withstanding a 2,000- pound pull.
Tiebacks may be deleted if a revetment is placed seaward of the seawall.
         (d)   Seawalls shall be backfilled with a compacted clean granular
material to provide adequate support. “Clean” shall mean no metal, wood or
glass.
         (e)   Seawalls will either tie into adjacent seawalls or will have an
adequate return wall meeting the same design requirements as the seaward wall.
Return walls must continue landward far enough to prevent flanking after the
erosion of the dune system seaward of the wall.
         (f)   Any new or substantially improved vertical seawall surface must
maintain a setback of at least 25 feet from the perpetual easement line except
that a new or substantially improved vertical seawall surface located seaward
of a habitable structure closer than 25 feet from the PEL shall be placed as
close the structure as is.
      (6)   Any new or substantially improved vertical seawall surface must be
faced with a sloping revetment. Revetments shall be designed by a certified
design professional, registered in the state and shall meet the following
minimum standards:
         (a)   The outside of a revetment shall consist of at least two layers
of armor stones whose pieces shall range in weight from a minimum of 50 pounds
to a maximum of 250 pounds; at least 60% shall weigh more than 150 pounds.
Broken pavement, blocks or bricks are not acceptable materials for the outer
layer of a revetment. However, they may be used for under layers.
         (b)   Revetments shall be underlain with a commercial grade porous
filter cloth designed for ocean erosion control and approved by the Building
Official (e.g. Phillips 66 stock or equal) and placed on a slope no steeper
than one vertical to two horizontal.
         (c)   The toe of the revetment shall extend at least two feet below
the existing beach elevation.
         (d)   In no case shall the toe of the revetment be located closer than
5 feet from the perpetual easement line.
   (D)   Minimum construction standards for bulkheads, retaining walls, and
riprap.
      (1)   New or substantially improved bulkheads or associated riprap
located wholly or partly with in the required setback from the critical line
must be constructed so that the top of the vertical structure is no higher than
the highest average grade on the property.
      (2)   Bulkheads and retaining walls shall be designed by a certified
design professional, registered in the state.
         (a)   Bulkheads and retaining walls shall be backfilled with a
compacted clean soil to provide adequate support. “Clean” shall mean no metal,
wood or glass.
         (b)   Bulkheads shall either tie into adjacent bulkheads or will have
an adequate return wall.
      (3)   Broken pavement, blocks or bricks are not acceptable materials for
riprap.
      (4)   Riprap used as the foundation of a berm must be designed by a
certified designed professional registered in the State of South Carolina so as
to prevent movement into the critical area.
   (E)   Minimum construction standards for berm. Berms within 15 feet of the
critical line shall be designed by a certified design professional registered
in the State of South Carolina and shall meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Berms shall be designed to prevent shedding of storm, flood and
tide waters onto adjacent properties and a no adverse impact statement in
congruence with other city ordinances including floodplain ordinances shall be
included on designs provided during permitting.
      (2)   Berms shall be tied into existing grades along the entire length of
their perimeter to ensure that berms are naturally appearing, and floodwaters
are not impacting surrounding properties.
      (3)   Berms shall be compacted prior to planting, landscaping, or
revegetation.
      (4)   Berms shall be landscaped with appropriate native vegetation such
that at least 50% of the surface of the berm is covered by plant material when
calculated using the a verage mature size of the proposed plantings. In the
case of damage or erosion resulting in the loss of required vegetation, berms
must be repaired and replanted to meet the requirements of this section.
      (5)   Naturally occurring, protected trees shall not be buried or
incorporated within the berm so as to cause the trees to die unnaturally from
piling up and stacking of soils above and around the natural ground level
surrounding the tree trunks. Boxing of protected trees is acceptable.
      (6)   Any riprap used as the foundation of a berm must be completely
covered by compacted earth so that no riprap is visible. In the case of damage
or erosion resulting in the exposure or disturbance of riprap, berms must be
repaired to meet the requirements of this section.
      (7)   Berms must be constructed so that the highest point of the berm is
no more than three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (F)   Adherence to these minimum standards will not guarantee that erosion
control devices will withstand wave or tidal forces or that it will protect
against erosion. These standards are to prevent unsightly and inferior
structures that would have little or no chance of success or could become a
hazard or nuisance, and/or divert floodwaters to adjacent properties.
(Ord. 003-25, passed 5-13-25)
§ 151.24 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION SEAWARD OF THE BASELINE.
   If an applicant requests to build or rebuild a structure, including an
erosion control structure or device, seaward of the proposed baseline that is
not allowed otherwise, the city may issue a special permit to the applicant
authorizing the construction or reconstruction upon verification from SCDES
that the structure has received approval from the state. The structure shall
not be constructed or reconstructed on a primary oceanfront sand dune or on the
active beach. If the beach erodes to the extent the permitted structure becomes
situated on the active beach, the permittee agrees to remove the structure from
the active beach. However, the use of the property authorized under this
provision, in the determination of the city, must not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 28-98, passed - - 98; Am. Ord. 09-19, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord. 001-25,
passed 2-11-25)
§ 151.25 DUNE WALKOVERS.
   To protect the integrity of the front dune and to mitigate intrusion into
ocean views from adjacent beachfront property, the following standards shall
apply to the construction of new and replacement dune walkovers. These
standards shall apply in addition to any and all regulations promulgated by the
SCDES for dune walkovers incidental to residential uses on Folly Beach.
   (A)   Dune walkovers shall not be wider than six feet.
   (B)   Dune crossovers shall not be built more than three feet higher than
required by beachfront management regulations, floodplain management standards,
or other applicable requirements, or, in the absence of such requirements, no
more than three feet above grade, excepting stairs and handicap access ramps
leading to the first heated floor of the primary structure on the lot.
   (C)   Dune walkovers shall be constructed to extend beyond the toe of the
seaward most dune.
   (D)   Observation decks shall be limited to 35 square feet in area. These
may include benches, light storage, and other appurtenant features in
accordance with SCDES and/or city floodplain management standards.
   (E)   Observation decks shall not be covered, roofed, or provided with any
overhead structure.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 1-24-06; Am. Ord. 07-19, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord. 001-25,
passed 2-11-25)
BEACH PRESERVATION
§ 151.35 AREAS OF PRESERVATION.
   All portions of the city extending from the mean high water line to the
primary dune through or to the first manmade object, whichever comes first, on
property now platted on Folly Island and controlled by the city or the state
shall be retained and preserved by the city in trust as an area of conservation
for the purpose of protecting the ecology of the property, the adjoining
property, and of the beaches of Folly Island, for enhancing the environment,
and for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the state.
(`95 Code, § 5-10-1)
§ 151.36 MAINTENANCE AND PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Any sand mined from the beach proper and placed on properties above
defined shall henceforth and hereinafter be subject to the administration and
police power of the City Council and shall not be subdivided into building
lots.
   (B)   They shall be maintained and preserved for the benefit of all people
in their natural state for the purpose of protecting the environment, ecology
and health, safety and welfare of the city, property owners and residents of
the state.
(`95 Code, § 5-10-2)
§ 151.37 CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   No structure of any kind shall be constructed in the above defined area
which is hereby established for conservation and preservation without the
expressed written permission of the city and, where applicable, from Coastal
Council.
(`95 Code, § 5-10-3)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.38 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF CONSERVATION. Any sand placed on the above defined properties will
remain in its natural state with no manmade, artificial changes other than
additional sand dunes or approved dune walkover structures. City Council will
promulgate regulations defining approved dune walkovers.
   MAINTAINED AND PRESERVED. The city will utilize its administrative powers to
prevent altering of this area in any way.
   MEAN HIGH WATER. The line established by survey on a series of plats titled
Plat Showing Perpetual Easement for Beach Renourishment, dated June 1, 1992,
and as recorded in the RMC Office.
   RETAINED AND PRESERVED. Property subject of this chapter shall not be
subdivided in any manner into lots and that the city will utilize all legal
means to guarantee that this natural habitat will be undisturbed.
   TRUST. The city shall act as custodian of the natural habitat in an effort
to maintain it as protection against erosion caused by the sea, and for the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(`95 Code, § 5-10-4)
§ 151.39 BEACH PRESERVATION FEE.
   (A)   The Beach Preservation Act of 2014 authorizes qualifying coastal
municipalities to impose a beach preservation fee not to exceed 1% of the gross
proceeds derived from the rental or charges for accommodations furnished to
transients.
   (B)   The City of Folly Beach is a qualifying coastal municipality with
shoreline on the Atlantic Ocean, a public beach, and a local accommodations tax
not exceeding 1½%.
   (C)   An additional 1% beach preservation fee is hereby added to the
accommodations tax for the purpose of nourishment, renourishment, maintenance,
erosion mitigation, monitoring of beaches, dune restoration and maintenance,
including planting of sea grass, sea oats or other vegetation useful in
preserving the dune system, and maintenance of public beach accesses within the
corporate limits of the City of Folly Beach.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 7-8-14)
Cross-reference:
   Funding of Beach Preservation Fund, see §§
38.03,
113.04 and
113.05
   Municipal accommodations fee, see §
113.03
PROTECTION OF LOGGERHEAD SEA TURTLES
§ 151.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTIFICIAL LIGHT. Any source of light emanating from a manmade device,
including but not limited to, incandescent mercury vapor, metal halide, or
sodium lamps, flashlights, spotlights, street lights, vehicular lights,
construction or security lights.
   BEACH. The area of unconsolidated material that extends landward from the
mean low water line to the place where there is a marked change in material or
physiographic form, or to the line of permanent vegetation (usually the
effective limit of storm waves).
   FLOODLIGHTS. Reflector type light fixture, attached directly to a building
and is unshielded.
   LOW PROFILE LUMINARIES. Light fixtures set on a base which raises the source
of the light no higher than 48 inches off the ground, and designed in such a
way that light is directed downward from a hooded light source.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. New construction and remodeling of existing structures when
the remodeling includes alteration of exterior lighting.
   NIGHTTIME HOURS. The period between sunset and sunrise. The official sunset
and sunrise shall be those times published by the National Weather Service.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, joint venture, partnership,
estate, trust, syndicate, fiduciary, corporation, group or unit or federal,
state, county or municipal government.
   POLE LIGHTING. Light fixture set on a base or pole which raises the source
of the light higher than 48 inches off the ground.
   SOLAR SCREEN. Screens which are fixed installations and permanently project
shade over the entire glass area of the window. The screens must be installed
outside of the glass and must have:
      (1)   Visible light transmittance value of 45% or less (inside to
outside;
      (2)   A minimum five-year warranty; and
      (3)   Performance claims supported by approved testing procedures and
documentation.
   TINTED OR FILMED GLASS. Window glass which has been covered with window tint
or film such that the material has:
      (1)   Visible light transmittance value of 45% or less (inside to
outside);
      (2)   A minimum five-year warranty;
      (3)   Adhesive as an integral part; and
      (4)   Performance claims which are sup- ported by approved testing
procedures and documen- tation.
   VISIBLE LIGHT TRANSMITTANCE. A measurement of the amount of light in the
visible portion of the spectrum that passes through a glazing material.
(Ord. 8-92, passed 4-21-92; Am. Ord. 11-97, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 18-99,
passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. 007-23, passed 4-11-23; Am. Ord. 026-24, passed 12-10-
24)
§ 151.46 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the threatened loggerhead sea
turtles which nest along the beaches of the city, by safeguarding the
hatchlings from sources of artificial light.
(Ord. 8-92, passed 4-21-92; Am. Ord. 11-97, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 18-99,
passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. 31-08, passed 12-30-08)
§ 151.47 NEW DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that no artificial light illuminate any
area of the beaches of the city during nighttime hours from May 1 to October 31
of each year.
   (B)   To meet this intent, if lighting associated with construction or
development can be seen from the beach, all building and electrical plans for
construction of single family or multi-family dwellings, commercial or other
structures, including electrical plans for parking lots, dune walkovers or
other outdoor lighting for real property shall be in compliance with the
following:
      (1)   Floodlights shall be prohibited. Wall mounted light fixtures shall
be fitted with hoods so that no light illuminates the beach.
      (2)   Pole lighting shall be shielded in a way that light will be
contained within arc of three to 73 degrees on the seaward side of the pole.
Outdoor lighting shall be held to the minimum necessary for security and
convenience.
      (3)   Low profile luminaries shall be used in parking lots and the
lighting shall be positioned so that no light illuminates the beach.
      (4)   Dune crosswalks shall utilize low profile shielded luminaries. Only
mushroom-type light fixtures, which direct light downward, shall be permitted.
Such lighting shall also meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Fixtures shall be installed at least 25 feet apart and not more
than one foot above the surface of the walkovers.
         (b)   Illumination shall be limited to 25 watts through the use of
"bug" type bulbs.
      (5)   Lights on balconies shall be fitted with hoods so that lights will
not illuminate the beach.
      (6)   Tinted or filmed glass shall be used in windows facing the ocean
beginning at the first floor level of multi-story structures. Shade screens can
be substituted for this requirement.
      (7)   (a)   Temporary security lights at construction sites shall not be
mounted more than 15 feet above the ground.
         (b)   Illumination from the lights shall not spread beyond the
boundary of the property being developed, and in no case shall those lights
illuminate the beach.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any structure for
which a building permit has been issued by the Building Official, prior to the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 8-92, passed 4-21-92; Am. Ord. 11-97, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 18-99,
passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. 31-08, passed 12-30-08; Am. Ord. 026-24, passed 12-10-
24) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.48 EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that no artificial light illuminate any
area of the beaches of the city during nighttime hours from May 1 to October 31
of each year.
   (B)   To meet this intent, lighting of existing structures which can be seen
from the beach shall be in compliance with the following.
      (1)   Lights illuminating buildings or associated grounds for decorative,
non-motion detecting security, or recreational purposes shall be shielded or
screened such that they are not visible from the beach and will be turned off
during nighttime hours from May 1 to October 31 of each year.
      (2)   Lights illuminating dune crosswalks shall be turned off during
nighttime hours from May 1 to October 31 of each year.
      (3)   Motion detecting security and safety lighting shall be permitted
throughout the night so long as low profile luminaries are used and screened in
a way that those lights do not illuminate the beach.
      (4)   Window treatments in windows facing the ocean at the first floor of
single-story or multi-story structures are required so that interior lights do
not illuminate the beach. The use of blackout draperies or shade screens are
preferred. The addition of tint or film to windows or awnings is also
encouraged, as is turning off unnecessary lights if the lights illuminate the
beach.
(Ord. 8-92, passed 4-21-92; Am. Ord. 11-97, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 18-99,
passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. 31-08, passed 12-30-08; Am. Ord. 026-24, passed 12-10-
24) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.49 PUBLICLY OWNED LIGHTING.
   Street lights and lighting at parks and other publicly owned beach access
areas shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   Whenever possible, street lights shall be located so that the bulk of
their illumination will travel away from the beach. These lights shall be
equipped with shades or shields that will prevent backlighting and render them
not visible from the beach.
   (B)   Lights at parks or other public beach access points shall be shielded
or shaded and will not be utilized during nighttime hours from May to October
31 of each year.
(Ord. 8-92, passed 4-21-92; Am. Ord. 11-97, passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord. 18-99,
passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. 31-08, passed 12-30-08; Am. Ord. 026-24, passed 12-10-
24) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.50 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 upon
conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 029-22, passed 9-13-22)
PROPERTY OWNER ELEVATION MAINTENANCE
§ 151.60 PURPOSE.
   Public beach renourishment projects, including maintenance of adjacent
private property, benefit and constitute an improvement for the entire city and
also provide a significant and direct benefit to owners of the adjacent,
private beachfront property. The purpose of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To safeguard the city's critical and significant commitment to and
investment in beach renourishment and preservation;
   (B)   To abate any nuisance that might be created on private property by
beach renourishment including ponding, or areas significantly lower than the
elevation of the renourishment that could threaten the integrity of the
renourished beach;
   (C)   To ameliorate and prevent public hazards, detrimental environmental
impacts, adverse effects on the quality of a coastal resource, and disruption
of access to a public coastal resource that might be created when private
property adjacent to a renourishment is not also renourished or is otherwise
maintained in a manner that is not compatible with the renourishment or
compromises the integrity of the renourishment;
   (D)   To protect, preserve, restore, and enhance the beach/dune system that
protects life and property; and
   (E)   To comply with requirements imposed by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers or any other entity conducting beach renourishment.
(Ord. 31-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.61 DUTY OF BEACHFRONT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of every beachfront property owner to ensure that:
   (A)   The property is maintained in a manner that does not compromise the
integrity of the public beach renourishment; and
   (B)   Any eroded areas of the beach that are on private property and
landward of the perpetual easement line are brought into compliance with local,
state, and Federal requirements if directed by the city. A property is
considered to be compliant when the seaward most elevation of the property
matches the elevation of the renourishment. Any action by the owner that
compromises the integrity of the renourishment or failure of the property owner
to maintain adequate elevation landward of the renourished beach is hereby
deemed a nuisance. It is within the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer,
in consultation with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or any other entity
conducting beach renourishment, to determine affected properties, the
permissible options for eliminating the nuisance (which may include sand fill,
dune restoration, or structural solutions), the necessary elevation, or any
other necessary actions the owner must take to preserve the integrity of the
public beach seaward of their property. Once the Code Enforcement Officer has
made a determination that a property is in violation, the property owner has
the burden of showing that the property has been brought into compliance
through an elevation survey or through other action required by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 31-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.62 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer will provide notice to property owners by
certified mail or personal delivery of any upcoming renourishment for which
they are expected to comply with this subchapter. The notice will provide the
following information:
   (A)   That the property is subject to this subchapter;
   (B)   The anticipated date or date range of the renourishment of the beach
adjacent to the property;
   (C)   A deadline, not less than 60 days from the date of the notice, for
when the property must be brought into compliance;
   (D)   The minimum action that must be taken by the property owner to bring
the property into compliance with the renourishment, such as the anticipated
height to which the property must be elevated;
   (E)   The anticipated cost of filling the owner's property or otherwise
bringing it into compliance with the renourishment if performed by the city and
billed to the owner;
   (F)   That the property owner must inform the city within 20 days of the
date of the notice whether the owner will address the identified nuisance by
filling the property or by otherwise bringing the property into compliance with
the renourishment, or, alternatively, will allow the city to bring the property
into compliance and agree to pay associated costs; and
   (G)   If the property owner does not make an election within 20 days of the
notice or does not bring the property into compliance with the renourishment by
the deadline provided and to the satisfaction of the code enforcement officer,
the city will fill the property or otherwise bring it into compliance, and bill
the property owner for the associated costs of same.
(Ord. 31-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.63 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter, or if the property owner has not addressed the identified issues in
a timely fashion, the code enforcement officer, the city, or its designee, has
the right to enter the property:
   (A)   To inspect it;
   (B)   To determine what actions must be taken to bring the property into
compliance with the renourishment; or
   (C)   To bring the property into compliance by filling the property in or
otherwise addressing any other noticed issues. The city will provide at least
48 hours of notice of such entry to the occupants of the property or, at the
option of the owner, directly to any owner that provides a method of immediate
contact.
(Ord. 31-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.64 PRESENTATION AND PAYMENT OF BILL; LIEN.
   (A)   If the property is filled or brought into compliance by the city, the
code enforcement officer will present a bill to the property owner by certified
mail or hand delivery. The bill will be based on the cost of filling the
owner's property, including the cost of transporting and placing the sand, or
otherwise bringing the property into compliance with the renourishment. The
bill will set forth the amount owed by the property owner along with an
explanation for how the amount was calculated. The property owner will have 60
days to pay the bill.
   (B)   If the property owner has not fully paid the bill within 60 days or
made other arrangements with the code enforcement officer, the bill plus any
costs of collection will constitute a lien against the property in the manner
provided by law, and the city or code enforcement officer may undertake
collection of the bill plus the costs of collection by any legal means,
including filing a recorded lien against the property in the amount of the bill
plus the costs of collection, initiating an action to collect on the bill plus
the costs of collection or to foreclose on the lien in the Charleston County
Court of Common Pleas, or assessing a fee or tax against the property in the
amount of the bill plus the costs of collection.
(Ord. 31-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.65 REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   If a property owner objects to any aspect of the notice or the requirements
set forth therein, including any bill presented to the property owner for
payment, the owner may request a hearing before the City Administrator within
20 days of the date of the notice. The City Administrator will then set a
hearing to address any such objections within ten days of the request and will
issue a ruling on any such objections. The City Administrator's ruling will be
the final determination of the city.
(Ord. 31-17, passed 12-12-17)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person altering the area that is the subject of §§
151.35 through
151.38 by littering, destruction of vegetation or the artificial movement of
the existing sand dunes shall subject to a $500 fine, and each day such exists
shall constitute a separate offense. Violators will be required to replace
altered sand dunes and replant the natural vegetation of the area.
(`95 Code, § 5-10-5) (Ord. 15-93, passed 9-7-93)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization and administration
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Applicability
   
152.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
152.08   Compliance
   
152.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.10   Interpretation
   
152.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.12   Construction, ingress and/or egress on properties accreted unnaturally
from Post-Hugo Dune Restoration Project
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.25   General standards
   
152.26   Specific standards
   
152.27   (Reserved)
   
152.28   Subdivision proposals
   
152.29   Areas of shallow flooding
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.40   Development permit
   
152.41   Permit procedures
   
152.42   Variances
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Official, see
Chapter 150
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   City Policies, see
Chapter 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION.
   Whereas the legislature of the state has, in S.C. Code § 5-7-30, delegated
the responsibility to local govern-mental units to adopt regulations designed
to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry, the
Building Official is hereby designated as the Local Floodplain Manager and
authorized to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-1) (Am. Ord. 21-17, passed 7-11-17)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-2)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-3)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally under-taken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business inter- ruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in flood plains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in a manner as to minimize flood blight areas;
and
   (G)   To insure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area; and
   (H)   ICC Benefit. To notify potential property owners of the provisions of
the ICC which allow additional funding to be made available in order to bring
structures into compliance with FEMA regulations.
   (I)   Maintain all records pertaining to the administration of this chapter
and make these records available to the public.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-4) (Ord. 26-04, passed 10-26-04; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 6-26-
07)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Structures that are located on the same parcel as the principal
structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal investment, may not
be used for human habitation, and be designed to have minimal flood damage
potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, cabanas,
carports, storage sheds, other similar uses.
         (a)   In special flood hazard areas other than coastal high hazard
areas (Zones A, AE, AH, AO and A1-30), they are not larger than one-story and
600 square feet in area. Walls must have openings in compliance with §
152.25.
         (b)   In coastal high hazard areas (Zones V, VE, V1-30 and VO), they
are not larger than 100 square feet.
         (c)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (d)   Flood damage resistant materials used below the design flood
elevation in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage Resistant
Materials Requirement.
         (e)   Mechanical, electrical, and utility equipment comply with the
requirements of §
152.25.
         (f)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
      (2)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING BUILDING. An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure. Additions to existing buildings shall
comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to whether the
addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or load-bearing
wall is provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition
(s) shall be considered a separate building and must comply with the standards
for new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Building Official’s interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated flood zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The flood elevation having a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The total ground area of a site occupied by any building
or structure as measured from the outside of its surrounding external walls or
supporting members. BUILDING COVERAGE includes exterior structures such as
stairs, porches, decks, permanent structural elements protruding from buildings
such as overhanging balconies, roof or building overhangs, and covered
carports.
   COASTAL A ZONE. All areas of the special flood hazard area within the city
that are outsize of the V zone. Coastal A Zone standards shall not apply to
commercial A-Zone properties.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area in a special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   COMMUNITY DETERMINED BFE. To be used when BFE is not determined on the FIRM.
In AO Zones, flood depth is used as BFE. In zones without a BFE or flood depth
established (usually Shaded X and X Zones), BFE is Highest Adjacent Grade
(HAG).
   CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT. Development that is critical to the community's public
health and safety is essential to the orderly functioning of a community,
stores or produces highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials, or
houses occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or
injury. Examples of CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT include jails, hospitals, schools,
fire stations, nursing homes, wastewater treatment facilities, water plants,
and gas/oil/propane storage facilities.
   DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION. Base flood elevation plus freeboard requirement, or
community determined base flood elevation plus freeboard requirement.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT (EIS). A statement of the effect of proposed
development and other major or governmental actions on the environment. The
purpose of an EIS is to provide the community with information needed to
evaluate the effects of a proposed project upon the environment. The statement
usually consists of an inventory of existing environmental conditions at the
project site and in the surrounding area. The inventory includes air and water
quality, water supply, hydrology, geology, soil type, topography, vegetation,
wildlife, aquatic organisms, ecology, demography, land use, aesthetics,
history, and archeology. An EIS also includes a project description and may
include a list of all licenses, permits, or other approvals required by law.
The EIS assessed the probable impact of the project upon all the inventory
items and includes a listing of adverse environmental impacts that cannot be
avoided. The statement also includes what steps the applicant proposed to take
to minimize adverse environmental impacts during construction and operation and
whether there are alternatives to any part of the project.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988. Issued by President Carter in 1977, this order
requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in or have the
potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless there is no
practicable alternative.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction,”
commenced before March 15,1984.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before March 15,1984.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANU- FACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD DAMAGE RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product, material, component
or system capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters
for periods of at least 72 hours without sustaining damage requiring more than
cosmetic repair.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP or FHBM. An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. An official map of a community on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary-floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without
sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Class 4 and
5 materials as referenced in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, dated August 2008 are acceptable flood-resistant
materials. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are
acceptable flooring materials. Any material that is water-soluble or is not
resistant to alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-
grade use, sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation from below
and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally unstable, and materials
that absorb or retain water excessively after submergence are not flood-
resistant.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement], i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of flood plain management intended to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed. The freeboard requirement also applies to utilities. The freeboard
requirement for the City of Folly Beach is four feet above BFE or community
determined base flood elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.  A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed foundation of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Applies to all new and renewed flood
insurance policies effective on and after June 1, 1997. The NFIP shall enable
the purchase of insurance to cover the cost of compliance with land use and
control measures established under Section 1316. It provides coverage for the
payment of a claim to help pay for the cost to comply with state or community
floodplain management laws or ordinances after a flood event in which a
building has been declared substantially or repetitively damaged.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). An elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any deck support, exterior walls of a building or proposed building
walls.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area. Any unfinished
or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
building’s LOWEST FLOOR provided that such an enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of other provisions of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A building, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities.
      (2)   The term also includes “park trailers,” “travel trailers” and
similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or
longer and intended to be improved property.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcel) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The Nations Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which the base flood
elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) are shown.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM or NGVD. As corrected in 1929 is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after March 15,1984. The term also includes any subsequent
improvements to the structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes  are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot, the area, dimensions, or location of
which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning
ordinance but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to
conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) of 1988. The vertical control, as
corrected in 1988, used as the reference datum on Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward of
and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal dune occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY. A building covered by a contract for flood
insurance that has incurred flood-related damages on at least 2 occasions
during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for which a second
claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average,
equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the building at the time of each
such flood event.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of mean high tide.
   SECTION 1316 OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968. A provision which
states that no new flood insurance shall be provided for any property found by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency to have been declared by a state or
local authority to be in violation of state law or local ordinances.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION. The first place on the oceanfront where plants
such as sea oats hold sand in place.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For other than new construction or substantial improvements under
the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, 16 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. (P.L. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction or
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The actual start means the first placement of permanent
construction of a building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as
the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation.
      (3)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank or other manmade facilities or
infrastructures.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or
improvements to a building, taking place during a ten-year period, in which the
cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior
to the first instance of repairs, reconstruction, alterations, or improvements.
      (2)   The market value of the building must be provided by a SC Certified
appraiser prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement. For
improvements being made after damage, the market value shall be the value of
the building prior to the damage occurring. If a certified appraisal is not
available the assessed value as assigned by Charleston County Assessor’s Office
maybe used.
      (3)   Code violations repairs and corrections identified that are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions and have been recorded by
the Building Official prior to the start of an improvement may be permitted
separately and excluded from the substantial improvement calculation. (per FEMA
P-758, 4.4.2)
      (4)   The ten-year period shall not be waived in the event repairs,
reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a building are required as an
act of God, natural disaster or other actions beyond the control of the
property owner.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISION.
Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY. A report analyzing anticipated roadway conditions with
the without an applicant's development. The report may include an analysis of
mitigation measures and a calculation of fair share financial contributions.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter permits
construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where specific
enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this code.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-5) (Am. Ord. 20-97, passed 2-3-98; Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99;
Am. Ord. 26-04, passed 10-26-04; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 38-
11, passed 12-13-11; Am. Ord. 37-11, passed 1-10-12; Am. Ord. 22-13, passed 1-
14-14; Am. Ord. 22-16, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord. 35-16, passed 12-13-2016; Am.
Ord. 21-17, passed 7-11-17; Am. Ord. 08-19, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord. 25-20,
passed 12-8-20; Am. Ord. 10-21, passed 5-11-21)
§ 152.06 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-6)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its flood insurance study dated January 29, 2020, with
accompanying maps, and other supporting data, are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-7) (Ord. 29-04, passed 10-26-04; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 6-26-
07; Am. Ord. 25-20, passed 12-8-20)
§ 152.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-9)
§ 152.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-10)
§ 152.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the City Council; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-11)
   (D)   Severability. If any part of this chapter is declared invalid, the
remainder of the chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in force.
(Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 6-26-07)
§ 152.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.
   (B)   (1)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes.
      (2)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazard or uses permitted within the areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
      (3)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or
by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-12)
§ 152.12 CONSTRUCTION, INGRESS AND/OR EGRESS ON PROPERTIES ACCRETED UNNATURALLY
FROM POST-HUGO DUNE RESTORATION PROJECT.
   (A)   There shall be no erection, fabrication, forming, arrangement or
transfer of any man-made or natural resources for any easement for ingress or
egress in or on any property which has artificially accreted as a result of the
1989 dune restoration project or any other renourishment projects as depicted
on the attached maps and/or graphs which are attached hereto and incorporated
by reference.
   (B)   All applications for building permits, which could potentially affect
these properties shall be held in abeyance for a period of 30 days to determine
whether or not the properties have accreted through artificial means as a
result of these properties.
(Ord. 18-97, passed - - 97)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas within the city limits of Folly Beach, all permits for new
construction and substantial improvement must be reviewed to determine whether
proposed structures will be reasonably safe from flooding. Permits will be
reviewed to ensure that all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and that no adverse impact occurs during the development
process as authorized by 44 CFR 59 and 60. Additionally, the following
provisions are required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improve- ments shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   (1)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement.
      (2)   Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (3)   This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with
applicable state requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction or substantial improve- ments shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding to the design flood elevation (DFE).
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction,” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Noncompliant buildings or uses may not be enlarged, replaced, or
rebuilt unless such enlargement or reconstruction is accomplished in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Provided, however, nothing in
this chapter shall prevent the repair, of an existing building or structure
located totally or partially within the floodway, provided that the bulk of the
building or structure below base flood elevation in the floodway is not
increased and provided that such repair meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (K)   All new and substantially improved critical development shall be
elevated to the 500-year flood elevation or be elevated to the highest known
historical flood elevation (where records are available), whichever is greater.
If no data exists establishing the 500-year flood elevation or the highest
known historical flood elevation, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis that generates 500-year flood elevation data.
   (L)   All gas or liquid storage tanks, either located above ground or
buried, shall be anchored to prevent floatation and lateral movement resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (M)   All new construction and substantial improvements must meet the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements including specific ADA
requirements for construction in the floodplain. The ADA shall not be used as
justification for the issuance of a variance or otherwise waiving floodplain
construction requirements. The cost of applicable ADA improvements shall be
included in calculating the threshold of substantial improvement.
   (N)   Elevated buildings.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of elevated buildings
that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the design flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living
space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (2)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area below the
design flood elevation;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the
opening;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Only the portions of openings that are below the design flood
elevation (DFE) can be counted towards the required net open area, and;
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      (3)   Electrical, plumbing, and other utility connections are prohibited
below the design flood elevation except that one wet location switch and/or
outlet connected to a ground fault interrupt breaker may be installed below the
required lowest floor elevation.
      (4)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (5)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
      (6)   Prior to receiving a permit to construct or renovate a structure in
the flood plain, the owner must sign and file with the Charleston County
Register of Mesne Conveyance a non-conversion agreement, which promises not to
improve, finish, or otherwise convert the area below the area below DFE and
grants community officials the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-
conversion agreement shall be of a form determined by the Building Official.
      (7)   Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in the design of any
foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for debris flow
exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five feet per second),
foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should be considered so
that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      (8)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation shall be of flood resistant materials.
      (9)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be located
landward of the SCDES Baseline as well as comply with all applicable SCDES
setback requirements.
      (10)   All buildings shall be elevated so that the bottom of the lowest
supporting horizontal member (excluding pilings or columns) and any associated
utilities are located no lower than the design flood elevation.
         (a)   Open lattice work or decorative screening may be permitted for
aesthetic purposes only and must be designed to wash away in the event of
abnormal wave action and in accordance with division (F)(8) above.
         (b)   Breakaway (solid) walls may be permitted, provided that they are
designed to break away from columns or pilings at a maximum horizontal pressure
of 20 pounds per square foot applied to the projected area, leaving columns or
pilings intact, but shall not break away at less than a horizontal pressure of
15 pounds per square foot on the projected area.
            1.   Breakaway construction design shall be certified by a
registered South Carolina architect or engineer and a certificate verifying the
same shall be submitted upon completion of construction. Final inspection
approval shall be withheld until this certification is received.
            2.   No plumbing pipes, gas pipes, electrical wires or other
equipment shall be run or mounted on or in the breakaway wall or in any way
impede or prevent the wall from breaking away under the designated load.
            3.   Solid breakaway walls shall be allowed only for added security
for the storage of a homeowner's personal belongings and shall not in any way
be incorporated as living space or designed as part of the structure used for
human habitation and must be vented per division (N). The Building Official
shall at all times be allowed right of entry for inspection purposes to
ascertain that the area behind the breakaway walls are used for no other
purpose other than storage.
            4.   Secondary breakaway wall enclosures shall not exceed 299
square feet.
            5.   Only flood resistant materials shall be used below the
required flood elevation. One wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a
ground fault interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor
elevation.
      (11)   All buildings or structures shall be securely anchored on pilings
or columns.
      (12)   All piles and columns and the structures attached thereto shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the effect
of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components. Water
loading values shall equal or exceed the base flood. Wind loading values shall
be in accordance with Standard Building Code, current edition.
      (13)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in this section.
      (14)   There shall be no fill used as structural support. Non-compacted
fill may be used around the perimeter of a building for landscaping/aesthetic
purposes provided the fill will wash out from storm surge, (thereby rendering
the building free of obstruction) prior to generating excessive loading forces,
ramping effects, or wave deflection. The Building Official shall approve design
plans for landscaping/aesthetic fill only after the applicant has provided an
analysis by an engineer, architect and/or soil scientist, which demonstrates
that the following factors have been fully considered:
         (a)   Particle composition of fill material does not have a tendency
for excessive natural compaction;
         (b)   Volume and distribution of fill will not cause wave deflection
to adjacent properties; and
         (c)   Slope of fill will not cause wave run-up or ramping.
      (15)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes which would increase
potential flood damage.
      (16)   Lattice work or decorative screening shall be allowed below the
design flood elevation provided it is not part of the structural support of the
building and is designed to break away under abnormally high tides or wave
action without damage to the structural integrity of the building on which it
is to be used and further provided that at least 60% of the area is void and
evenly distributed throughout and located between piles or columns and meets
all other requirements under this section.
      (17)   If aesthetic lattice work or screening (breakaway walls) are
utilized, the enclosed space shall not be designed to be useable for human
habitation but shall be designed to be useable only for parking of vehicles,
building access or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection
with the premises.
      (18)   Prior to construction, plans for any structures that will have
breakaway walls must be submitted to the Building Official for approval.
      (19)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a
structure shall not enclose the space below the lowest floor except with
lattice work or decorative screening, as provided for in divisions (F)(8) and
(F)(9) above.
      (20)   Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes),
except in an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring standards of
division (B) and the elevation standards of division (A) above are met.
      (21)   Accessory structures, below the required lowest floor elevation
are prohibited in V-zones except for the following:
         (a)   Swimming pools which:
            1.   Must be installed at-grade or elevated so long as the pool
will not act as an obstruction.
            2.   Must be structurally independent of the building and its
foundation.
            3.   May be placed beneath a coastal building only if the top of
the pool and any accompanying decking or walkway are flush with the existing
grade and only if the lower area remains unenclosed.
            4.   Must be part of the certification process for V-zone buildings
by which a design professional must consider the effects that any of these
elements will have on the building in question and any nearby buildings.
         (b)   Access stairs attached to or beneath an elevated building which:
            1.   Must be constructed of flood-resistant materials.
            2.   Must be constructed as open staircases so they do not block
flow under the structure.
         (c)   Decks as follows:
            1.   If the deck is structurally attached to a building then the
bottom of the lowest horizontal member must be at or above the elevation of the
building's lowest horizontal member.
            2.   If the deck is to be built below the DFE then it must be
structurally independent of the main building and must not cause an
obstruction.
            3.   If an at-grade, structurally independent deck is proposed then
a design professional must evaluate the design to determine if it will
adversely affect the building and nearby buildings.
      (22)   Parking areas should be located on a stable grade under or
landward of a structure. Any parking surface shall consist of gravel or
aggregate.
      (23)   Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of the design flood elevation. This requirement
does not exclude the installation of outdoor faucets for shower heads, sinks,
hoses, etc., as long as cut off devices and back flow prevention devices are
installed to prevent contamination to the service components and thereby
minimize any flood damages to the building. No utilities or components shall be
attached to breakaway walls.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-18) (Am. Ord. 05-97, passed 4-1-97; Am. Ord. 24-99, passed 9-
14-99; Am. Ord. 01-00, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 22-16, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord.
21-17, passed 7-11-17; Am. Ord. 08-19, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord. 04-21, passed
1-22-21; Am. Ord. 10-21, passed 5-11-21; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11- 25)
§ 152.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas within the city limits of Folly Beach, as set forth in §§
152.07 or 150.20, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated no lower than the design flood elevation (DFE).
      (2)   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
water shall be provided in accordance with standards of §
152.41.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or non-residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the design flood
elevation (DFE). Commercial buildings located in all A-zones may be
floodproofed in lieu of being elevated provided that all areas of the building
below the required elevation are water tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and use structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy. A flood proofing certificate must be submitted to the Building
Official certified by a licensed South Carolina architect or engineer prior to
occupation of the structure.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. The certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
152.41.
      (3)   This section does not raise the height restriction.
      (4)   Structures that are floodproofed are required to have an approved
maintenance plan with an annual review. The local floodplain administrator must
approve the maintenance plan and be provided with a notification of the annual
review.
   (C)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on
individual lots or parcels, in expansions to existing manufactured home parks
or subdivisions, or in substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions, must meet all the requirements for new construction, including
elevation and anchoring.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than the design flood elevation (DFE);
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above grade.
         (c)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
any manufactured home placed or substantially improved must meet the standards
of §
152.41.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
         (a)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use;
         (b)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements of division (A) above; and
         (c)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached structures.
   (D)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge;
      (2)   If the provision (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §
152.25.
      (3)   Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes), except
in an existing manufactured home (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring standards of §
152.25 and the elevation standards of division (C) above and the encroachment
standards of this division (D) are met.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-19) (Ord. 13-02, passed 8-27-02; Am Ord. 36-11, passed 12-13-
11; Am. Ord. 38-11, passed 12-13-11; Am. Ord. 22-16, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord.
35-16, passed 12-13-16; Am. Ord. 21-17, passed 7-11-17; Am. Ord. 08-19, passed
2-11-19; Am. Ord. 25-20, passed 12-8-20; Am. Ord. 10-21, passed 5-11-21)
§ 152.27 (RESERVED).
§ 152.28 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-21) (Am. Ord. 35-11, passed 12-13-11)
§ 152.29 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the
following provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade plus the freeboard requirement. If no depth number is
specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated, at least
four feet above the highest adjacent grade (HAG).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade plus the freeboard requirement. If no depth number is specified,
the lowest floor, including basement shall be elevated at least four feet above
the highest adjacent grade (HAG); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-22)
      (3)   All structures on slopes must have drainage paths around them to
guide water away from the structures.
(Am. Ord. 25-20, passed 12-8-20; Am. Ord. 10-21, passed 5-11-21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.40 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-8)
§ 152.41 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Building
Official on forms furnished by him or her prior to any development activities,
and may include, but not be limited to the following plans in duplicate drawn
to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials
or equipment, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all buildings;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential building will be floodproofed;
         (c)   Certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresi-dential floodproofed building will meet the flood-proofing
criteria in §
152.26;
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
            1.   Upon application for activities that will alter or relocate a
watercourse, the Flood Plain Manager shall notify adjacent communities and the
South Carolina Department of Natural Resources, Land, Water, and Conservation
Division, State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance program prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
modification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
            2.   Any activity that alters or relocates a watercourse must
maintain the carrying capacity of the watercourse.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Provide an under construction elevation certificate after the
lowest floor is completed, or in instances where the building is subject to the
regulations applicable to coastal high hazard areas, after placement of the
horizontal structural members of the lowest floor.
         (b)   The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same. When floodproofing is utilized for a particular building,
the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
         (c)   Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The Building Official shall review the
floor elevation survey data submitted.
         (d)   Deficiencies detected by the review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed.
         (e)   Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (f)   When a structure is located in Zones V, VE, or V1-30, or a
Coastal A Zone certification shall be provided from a registered professional
engineer or architect, separate from submitted plans, that new construction and
substantial improvement meets the criteria for the coastal high hazard areas.
         (g)   Upon completion of the development a registered professional
engineer, land surveyor or architect, in accordance with SC law, shall certify
that the development is built in accordance with the submitted plans and
previous pre-development certifications.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-15) (Am. Ord. 22-16, passed 9-13-16; Am. Ord. 21-17, passed 7-
11-17; Am. Ord. 25-20, passed 12-8-20)
§ 152.42 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and
request for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Building Official in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Construction Board of
Appeals, or any taxpayer may appeal the decision to the Court of Common Pleas,
as provided in S.C. Code § 18-7-10.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see definition) upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (E)   In passing upon the application, the Construction Board of Appeals
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, in the case
of a functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Construction Board of Appeals may attach the conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. In the instance of a historical building, a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character
and design of the building.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship. A determination that the granting of a variance
will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public
safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (4)   The Building Official shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-17) (Am. Ord. 22-16, passed 9-13-16)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day a violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the city from taking the other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(`95 Code, § 5-4-13)
CHAPTER 153: SPECIAL EVENTS, PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS, AND THE PUBLIC’S USE OF
SPACES IN CITY-OWNED BUILDINGS
Section
Special Events
   
153.01   Definition
   
153.02   Special events shall comply with laws and rules
   
153.03   Rules for all special events
   
153.04    Additional rules for weddings and other events on the beach, in the
Community Center and at the Folly River Park
   
153.05   Everyone is required to give the Department of Public Safety notice of
special events on private property involving more than twenty-five people
   
153.06   Permission from the city is required for some special events on public
property
Parks and Playgrounds
   
153.07   The city’s parks and playgrounds
   
153.08   Hours of operation
   
153.09   Rules and regulations must be followed
   
153.10    Reserved
The Public’s Use of City-Owned Buildings
   
153.11   The Community Center
   
153.12   City Hall
   
153.13   Public safety facilities
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 153.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIAL EVENT.  Any activity on private or public property other than the
normal use for which the property is zoned or ordinarily used. SPECIAL EVENTS
include but are not limited to weddings, parties, festivals, cultural events,
musical events, exhibitions, fairs, carnivals, circuses, communal camping,
sporting events, parades, and demonstrations.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 004-22, passed 3-8-22)
§ 153.02 SPECIAL EVENTS SHALL COMPLY WITH LAWS AND RULES.
   (A)   Unless specifically waived by City Council, participants in special
events on public or private property shall comply with all relevant city,
state, and federal laws, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Alcohol possession or consumption (must be 21 years old, no open
containers on public property, no alcohol on the beach);
      (2)   Parking and traffic laws;
      (3)   Noise prohibitions in residential, commercial, and recreational
zones;
      (4)   Disorderly conduct;
      (5)   Unlawful assembly;
      (6)   Trespassing, malicious injury and the like; and
      (7)   Wildlife and environmental protection.
   (B)   If a special event does not comply with the rules set forth in this
ordinance or other laws, the Director of Public Safety may terminate the event
and take any other action that the Director deems appropriate.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 004-22, passed 3-8-22)
Cross reference:
   Parking and traffic laws, Code of Ordinances, Title VII;
   Noise prohibitions in residential, commercial, and recreational zones, §§
131.30 to
131.44;
   Disorderly conduct, §
131.21;
   Prohibited behavior; unlawful assembly, §
131.07;
   Trespassing, malicious injury and the like, §
132.02;
   Wildlife and environmental protection,
Chapter 151
§ 153.03 RULES FOR ALL SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   All special events on public or private property:
      (1)   Shall not have substantia! adverse effects or noise impacts on
nearby properties;
      (2)   Shall not have temporary signs larger than 12 square feet (e.g.,
three feet x four feet) and shall promptly remove the signs when the event is
over or as specified in an event permit or rental agreement;
      (3)   Shall not violate any conditions of approval that apply to a
principal use on the site;
      (4)   Shall not obstruct beach access paths or walkovers or disturb beach
dunes or related vegetation;
      (5)   Shall not create an unreasonable risk of significant:
         (a)   Damage to public property, beyond normal wear and tear;
         (b)   Injury to persons;
         (c)   Unlawful disturbances or nuisances;
         (d)   Unsafe impediments or distractions to, or congestion of,
vehicular or pedestrian travel;
         (e)   Additional and impracticable or unduly burdensome police, fire,
trash removal, maintenance, or other public services demands; or
         (f)   Other adverse effects upon the public health, safety, or
welfare;
      (6)   Shall not be of such a nature, size, or duration that the
particular location requested cannot reasonably accommodate the event;
      (7)   Shall not be at a time and location that has already been permitted
or reserved for other activities;
      (8)   Shall not leave any trash generated by the event on city property
unless it is properly placed in appropriate trash or recycling containers; and
      (9)   Shall only use vendors that have City of Folly Beach business
licenses.
   (B)   An applicant for permission to hold a special event on public property
shall agree that, in the event that a special event is cancelled by the City of
Folly Beach due to circumstances beyond the control of the city, including but
not limited to acts of God or verifiable emergencies, the applicant’s only
recourse is either to reschedule the event or to receive a refund of any funds
paid to the city by the applicant, and the applicant shall further agree that
the city shall not be liable to the applicant for any losses, damages,
obligations, liabilities, or expenses that may directly or indirectly arise
from the cancellation of the event.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 004-22, passed 3-8-22; Am. Ord. 006-23,
passed 4-11-23)
§ 153.04 ADDITIONAL RULES FOR WEDDINGS AND OTHER EVENTS ON THE BEACH, IN THE
COMMUNITY CENTER AND AT THE FOLLY RIVER PARK.
   (A)   Weddings and other events on the beach are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Wedding receptions are prohibited on the beach.
      (2)   Any items that are put on the beach for a wedding or other event
(such as tents pulpits, chairs, plants, arbors, or decorations) as well as any
other items that were left on the beach after the event, must be removed before
sunset, before the tide reaches them, or no later than two hours after the
conclusion of the event, whichever is sooner.
      (3)   Fireworks and open fires, including tiki torches, sky lanterns,
floating lanterns and similar devices, are prohibited on the beach. Gas grills
are permitted.
      (4)   Only environmentally safe materials may be thrown on the beach,
such as bird seed or real flowers or flower petals (no rice).
      (5)   Access to the beach must be made through a public walkover, unless
the event has permission to use a house or vacant lot on the front beach.
      (6)   Weddings and other events on the beach shall not impede the passage
of pedestrians or patrol vehicles on the beach or public walkways to the beach.
      (7)   Any application for a wedding on the beach with over 25 people in
attendance must be approved by the Special Events Committee.
   (B)   Weddings and other events in the Community Center are subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Any items that are brought into the Community Center (such as
pulpits, chairs, plants, arbors, decorations, and other items) must be removed
within two hours of the end of the event.
      (2)   Special events in the Community Center shall not be for commercial
purposes.
      (3)   The use of Community Center shall be free to community groups and
shall include the use of the Community Center sign.
      (4)   The use of the Community Center shall be free to residents.
      (5)   Any application for a wedding in the Community Center with over 25
people in attendance must be approved by the Special Events Committee.
   (C)   Weddings and others events in the Folly River Park are subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Any items that are brought into the park (such as pulpits, chairs,
plants, arbors, decorations, or other items) must be removed within two hours
of the end of the event.
      (2)   Special events in the Folly River Park shall not be for commercial
purposes.
      (3)   The use of Folly River Park shall be free to community groups.
      (4)   The use of the Folly River Park shall be free to residents.
      (5)   The use of tents for special events in the Folly River Park is
prohibited.
      (6)   Special events in the Folly River Park shall not have exclusive use
of the park and shall not impede access to and use of the park by the general
public.
      (7)   Any application for a wedding in the Folly River Park with over 25
people in attendance must be approved by the Special Events Committee.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 001-22, passed 2-8-22; Am. Ord. 004-22,
passed 3-8-22; Am. Ord. 006-23, passed 4-11-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 EVERYONE IS REQUIRED TO GIVE THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY NOTICE OF
SPECIAL EVENTS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY INVOLVING MORE THAN TWENTY-FIVE PEOPLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who is planning to hold a special event on private
property that will involve more than 25 people shall notify the Department of
Public Safety. This is to ensure that if a problem arises with parking or
otherwise, Public Safety will know who to contact. Such notice shall be given
at least 24 hours before the event.
      (2)   Businesses, churches, and other organizations are not required to
give notice of their regular-activities because such activities are not
“special events.”
   (B)   The notice shall include:
      (1)   The time, place, duration, and nature of the event and the number
of expected participants; and
      (2)   The name and contact information, including cell phone numbers, of
the person or persons who will be responsible for responding to complaints or
handling problems.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 004-22, passed 3-8-22)
§ 153.06 PERMISSION FROM THE CITY IS REQUIRED FOR SOME SPECIAL EVENTS ON PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   (A)   Permission from the city in the form of a permit is required for
special events on public property, including the beach, that are expected to
involve more than 25 people. Applicants for special event permits must be at
least 21 years old. Weddings on the beach with fewer than 25 people in
attendance as well as events in the Folly River Park are exempt from this
requirement but must provide the following as notice to the city: the time,
place, duration, and nature of the event and the number of expected
participants, and the name and contact information, including cell phone
numbers, of the person or persons who will be responsible for responding to
complaints or handling problems.
   (B)   Criteria for approval of special events on public property.
      (1)   Other than weddings on the beach, in the Community Center, or at
the Folly River Park, special events on public property must accomplish at
least one of the following objectives:
         (a)   Have a positive impact on the quality of life for residents;
         (b)   Enhance the image of the city;
         (c)   Benefit the city financially; and
         (d)   Promote tourism or benefit the business community between
September 10 and April 30.
      (2)   No special event on public property shall be approved if it will:
         (a)   Threaten the environment or endanger wildlife;
         (b)   Interfere with the public’s use of any street or the beach for
more than half a block of the beach between March 1 and September 9;
         (c)   Involve a run or a race between March 1 and September 9; or
         (d)   Require more city services, such as traffic control and litter
cleanup, than the city is willing to provide.
      (3)   All times and routes for runs and races that require City Council
approval shall be approved by Public Safety prior to application to Council for
a city permit. Public safety shall develop pre-approved routes.
      (4)   The sponsor of an event that requires city approval, other than
weddings on the beach, in the Community Center, or at Folly River Park shall
provide the total number of participants to the City Administrator within one
week after the event. An event whose participants significantly exceed the
estimated number of participants in the event application may be denied future
approval.
   (C)   Special events that require a permit from the Department of Public
Safety.
      (1)   A permit from the Department of Public Safety is required for a
special event, other than weddings, at the Folly River Park or the Community
Center that is expected to have more than 25 participants.   
      (2)   A permit from the Department of Public Safety is required for all
other special events on public property, including the beach, that are expected
to have 26-75 participants, except:
         (a)   Events that must be approved by City Council and permitted by
the city;
         (b)   Funeral processions proceeding by vehicles using the most
reasonable route from a funeral home, church, or residence of a deceased to the
place of service or internment;
         (c)   Peaceful demonstrations at fixed locations that are not streets,
sidewalks, or rights-of-way; and
         (d)   Weddings on the beach, in the Community Center, or at Folly
River Park that are approved by the Special Events Committee.
      (3)   Applications for permits must be submitted to the Director of
Public Safety at least two weeks before the event, unless the Director agrees
to a shorter period.
      (4)   Upon receipt of a complete application for a special events permit,
the Director of Public Safety shall consider the application in light of the
rules for special events and notify the applicant within three days, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, of the Director’s decision to approve
or deny the event application and the applicant’s right to appeal a denial to
City Council.
      (5)   After approving a special event application and issuance of a
permit, the Director of Public Safety shall send a copy of the application to
the City Administrator who shall promptly notify any city employees (other than
public safety employees) who are likely to be involved in or affected by the
special event.
   (D)   Special events that require approval by City Council or the Special
Events Committee and issuance of a permit by the city.
      (1)   Approval by City Council and issuance of a permit by the city is
required for the following special events;
         (a)   Events involving more than 75 people on the beach or city
property except events in the Folly River Park or the Community Center and all
weddings on public property;
         (b)   Events involving any street closure or likely impairment of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
         (c)   Events involving the use of city resources, such as funding,
traffic control, security, setting up, or cleaning up;
         (d)   Events requesting a waiver of the open container law or other
laws, and
         (e)   Events that would be sponsored in whole or in part by the city.
      (2)   Applications for Council approval of an event must be submitted to
the Clerk of Council at least 60 days before the event, unless the City
Administrator agrees to a shorter period.
      (3)   City Council shall consider an application for a special event
permit in light of the rules for special events and may:
         (a)   Deny the application;
         (b)   Approve the application and authorize staff to issue a permit;
         (c)   Provisionally approve the application and authorize staff to
issue a permit subject to review by the Staff Event Planning Committee; or
         (d)   Postpone action and refer the application to the Staff Event
Planning Committee for its review and recommendations.
      (4)   If an applicant requests city funds or other resources to be used
to support a special event (for example, services performed by public safety or
public works employees), City Council shall not give final approval to the
application and authorize issuance of a permit until the comptroller has
provided Council with a general estimate of the costs to the city.
      (5)   If Council approves an application subject to review by the Staff
Event Planning Committee:
         (a)   The Committee shall meet as soon as possible to discuss the
proposed event with the applicant;
         (b)   The Committee may designate one or more people to work with the
applicant on any issues that the Committee wants to resolve; and
         (c)   If the Committee or any member of the Committee has concerns
about an event that are not satisfactorily addressed by the event’s organizers,
the Committee or any Committee member may ask City Council to address such
concerns and, possibly, to deny or withdraw the permit and approval of the
event.
      (6)   If Council approves an application and authorizes staff to issue a
permit for an event that will involve the Staff Event Planning Committee and
the Committee is satisfied with the organizer’s plans for the event, the
Committee shall:
         (a)   Work out logistics for the event; and
         (b)   Create a map showing road closures, placement of music, and any
other detail that will help identify the various happenings on the day of the
event. A copy of the map shall be given to the Mayor and members of City
Council, members of the Committee, any businesses involved, and the permit
applicant.
      (7)   Approval by the Special Events Committee and issuance of a permit
by the city is required for weddings on the beach, in the Community Center, or
in the Folly River Park with greater than 25 participants.
   (E)   Information to be submitted in applications for special event permits.
The following information shall be submitted in applications for special event
permits:
      (1)   Name of the event;
      (2)   Names and contact information of the permit applicant and any event
sponsors;
      (3)   Name and contact information, including cell phone numbers, of the
person or persons who will be responsible for responding to complaints or
handling problems;   
      (4)   The purpose of and a description of the event, including an
explanation of any significant changes from previous holdings of the event;
      (5)   The location of the event;
      (6)   The proposed dates and times of the event including times for
setting up and taking down;
      (7)   The expected number of participants in the event;
      (8)   If any part of the event is to be held on private property, a
statement signed by the owner of the property that gives permission for the
event to be held on the property;
      (9)   The amount of city funds or other resources requested, if any, and
why.
      (10)   If the event is for a charity, the names of any potential
beneficiaries of the event; and
      (11)   Any other information requested by the City Administrator or the
Director of Public Safety.
   (F)   Process for planning pre-approved events.
      (1)   The following events are pre-approved by City Council: The Civic
Club’s Halloween Carnival, the Easter Promenade, the Christmas Parade, the Flip
Flop Drop, the Wahine Classic, Warrior Surf, the Save the Light 5k, the Lung
Force Run/Walk, and the Cupid’s Undie Run, Polar Bear Plunge, Sea & Sand, New
Year’s Eve Celebration, July 4th Celebration, and Exchange Club Pickleball
Fundraiser, The Sand Dollar Club Toys For Tots, The Sand Dollar Scooters For
Hooters. All pre-approved events must be reviewed and approved by the Special
Events Committee. The city reserves the right to cancel any event with cause.
      (2)   If an event is pre-approved, the Staff Event Planning Committee
shall meet with the event’s organizers to discuss plans for the event and to
work out logistics for the event and to issue a permit for the event. The
organizers shall provide the names and contact information, including cell
phone numbers, of the person or persons who will be responsible for responding
to complaints or handling problems.
      (3)   Pre-approved events are exempt from the cost estimate requirement
in § 153.06(D)(4), however, if the Committee or any member of the Committee has
concerns about the event that are not satisfactorily addressed by the event’s
organizers, the Committee or any Committee member may ask City Council to
address such concerns and, possibly, to withdraw approval of the event.
      (4)   When the date and general details for the event are known, the
Clerk of Council shall provide this information to the Mayor and City Council.
      (5)   The event organizer must provide a list of all vendors,
entertainers, exhibitors, performers, or sub-contractors (hereinafter
"vendors") that will be involved in the event no later than 48 hours prior to
the event and, if requested, provide proof of insurance for same. All such
vendors must obtain a city business license.
      (6)   The event's organizers shall enter a lease with the city to lease
the premises to be used during the event. The lease will include the following
requirements:
         (a)   The lease amount will be $1;
         (b)   The event organizers will indemnify and hold harmless the city
for all damage to property owned or under the control and management of the
city;
         (c)   The event organizers will indemnify and hold harmless the city
for all claims made against the city arising from or related to the event;
         (d)   The city will be named as an additional insured on all insurance
policies acquired by the event organizer and covering the event;
         (e)   All such insurance policies shall provide primary coverage to
the city;
         (f)   The event organizer will comply with all city ordinances and
policies; and
         (g)   Shall contain such other provisions as required by the Staff
Event Planning Committee or City Attorney.
   (G)   Conditions may be imposed for special events that require city
approval. The following conditions may be imposed to reduce or minimize
potential adverse impacts of special events that require city approval,
including pre-approved events:
      (1)   Provision of temporary parking facilities, including vehicular
access and egress;
      (2)   Control of nuisance factors, such as but not limited to, the
prevention of glare or direct illumination of adjacent properties, noise,
vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, and heat;
      (3)   Regulation of temporary buildings, structures and facilities,
including placement, height and size, location of equipment and open spaces,
including buffer areas and other yards;
      (4)   Provision of sanitary and medical facilities;
      (5)   Provision of solid waste collection and disposal;
      (6)   Provision of security and safety measures;
      (7)   Use of an alternative location or date for the proposed special
event;
      (8)   Modification or elimination of certain proposed activities;
      (9)   Regulation of operating hours and days, including limitation of the
duration of the special event to a shorter time period than that requested;
      (10)   Submission of a performance guarantee to ensure that any temporary
facilities or structures used for such proposed special event will be removed
from the site within a reasonable time following the event and that the
property will be restored to its former condition;
      (11)   Insurance; and
      (12)   Any other conditions that are deemed necessary to reduce or
minimize any potential adverse impacts upon the quality of life of residents or
other property in the area.   
   (H)   Reports required after city-funded events are completed. If city funds
are used to support an event, the event’s sponsor shall submit an accounting to
the City Comptroller of how city funds were used within 30 days after the event
is held. If the event is a charitable event, the accounting shall also include
the amount donated to the agency or individual(s) named as the beneficiary of
the event. The City Comptroller shall then report to City Council.
   (I)   Payment of fees.   
      (1)   When an application to hold a special event is approved, the
applicant shall pay the appropriate fee, as per the event fee schedule, if any
has been set by City Council. The fee shall be determined by the public safety
resources needed, the number of participants expected, the nature and length of
the event, and the cost of any additional city services. The fee amount should
be made available to City Council prior to presentation.
      (2)   If a security deposit or other advance fee is required for a
special event on public property, the payment of such fee shall be made when
the special event application is submitted. Security deposits and other
refundable fees shall be returned within 15 days following the event if the
event location is left clean and free of damage.
      (3)   Payment of all fees must be made in full before the event begins.
      (4)   A security deposit shall be forfeited unless the city is notified
that an event is cancelled at least seven days before the event is scheduled,
unless the cancellation is due to circumstances beyond the control of the
applicant, e.g., acts of God or verifiable emergencies.
   (J)   Clerk of Council to maintain records of special events. The Clerk of
Council shall keep a copy of all approved special event applications and
permits issued and shall be responsible for having special events, including
pre-approved and city-sponsored events, added to the calendar on the city’s
website.
   (K)   Insurance.
      (1)   Insurance requirements for “high risk” events. Applicants for
special events involving “high risk” activities must comply with division (K)
(2) below and also require commercial or licensed vendors, caterers, or
providers of any listed “high risk” activity to obtain and provide proof of
appropriate liability insurance of at least $1,000,000 and appropriate workers
compensation insurance. Proof of such insurance will be attached to the
application and reviewed by the Municipal Clerk. This insurance will be
attached to the application and reviewed by the Municipal Clerk. This insurance
is required for special events that involve “high risk” activities, unless City
Council waives or alters this requirement. “High risk” activities include the
following activities, as well as any other activities determined to be “high
risk” by City Council:
         (a)   Fireworks (permission from City Council and the Department of
Public Safety is required);
         (b)   Inflatable play structures such as “jump castles”;
         (c)   Traveling carnivals and circuses;
         (d)   Mechanical rides;
         (e)   Animal rides;
         (f)   Petting zoos;
         (g)   Trampolines;
         (h)   Bungee cords and other activities involving rebounding
equipment; and
         (i)   Special events at which alcohol will be served by a licensed or
commercial vendor or caterer.
      (2)   Insurance requirements for high risk events, street closure events,
and sporting events. An applicant for a special event that is a high risk
event, a sporting event, or will involve a street closure must possess or
obtain its own comprehensive general liability insurance from no less than an
A-rated company, naming the city as an additional insured and the applicant as
an insured, and also third party property damage coverage protecting the city's
property from damage incurred at the event. The street closure applicant's
special event insurance shall include the following:
         (a)   Types of insurance required and limits.
            1.   General aggregate limit of at least $1,000,000;
            2.   Each occurrence limit of at least $1,000,000;
            3.   Damage to premises limit of at least $100,000;
            4.   If the applicant has paid employees, workers' compensation
insurance with a limit of at least $1,000,000;
            5.   If the applicant intends to provide public transportation to
attendees, commercial auto liability insurance with a general aggregate limit
of at least $1,000,000; and
            6.   A.   If alcohol will be consumed at the event, liquor
liability coverage with a general aggregate limit of $1,000,000 and an each
occurrence limit of $1,000,000.
               B.   The policies will not have "declining limits" that will be
reduced by payment of attorneys' fees and litigation costs.
         (b)   Required insureds. The following entities shall be named as
insureds or additional insureds on the commercial liability policies and, if
required, the liquor liability policies:
            1.   The City of Folly Beach; and
            2.   The applicant.
         (c)   Required terms coverage. All commercial liability and liquor
liability policies must include the following coverage, whether by original
policy or by endorsement:
            1.   Coverage of a public agency, state or governmental agency or
subdivision or political subdivision that has issued a permit or authorization
as an additional insured;
            2.   If volunteers are used, coverage for volunteer workers;
            3.   If a premises endorsement is included, all locations at which
the event takes place will be identified as the premises; and
            4.   For special events required to obtain liquor liability
coverage, if a premises endorsement is included, it shall provide coverage for
injuries that are a direct result of the selling or furnishing of any alcoholic
beverage at the insured premises.
         (d)   Prohibited limiting endorsements and exclusions. No liability
policies shall include the following limiting endorsements or exclusions:
            1.   Exclusions for any attendees or participants other than
exclusions for participation in activities listed in division (e) below;
            2.   Exclusions of all injuries arising from the use of
automobiles. However, coverage for automobiles owned, maintained, used, rented,
leased or borrowed by any insured is not required; and
            3.   Assault and battery exclusions.
         (e)   Coverage for vendors, entertainers, exhibitors, performers, or
sub-contractors. The applicant shall require and confirm that the following
types of vendors, entertainers, exhibitors, performers, or sub-contractors
(collectively referred to as "vendors"), have their own liability insurance of
at least $1,000,000 and appropriate workers compensation insurance or, in the
alternative, are named insureds under the applicant's policy:
            1.   Vendors providing food or beverages;
            2.   Vendors providing amusement devices, amusement rides,
mechanical rides, inflatable devices, fireworks, climbing walls, athletic
activity, physical activity, or sport, structures, such as bleachers or
grandstands, or any other "high risk" activity listed in division (K)(l);
            3.   Vendors providing security for the event;
            4.   Any vendor providing public transportation for the event; and
            5.   Any other vendor designated by the Staff Event Planning
Committee.
The Staff Event Planning Committee or City Attorney may require specific
vendors to obtain event insurance with terms similar to those required of the
event organizer and/or have the city named as an additional insured.
         (f)   Proof of insurance. The applicant shall submit to the city at
least 30 days prior to the event the policies, including all endorsements, and
a certificate of insurance showing the applicant and the city as named or
additional insureds. Upon demand, the applicant will also provide proof of
insurance for its vendors set forth in division (K)(2)(e).
      (3)   Insurance requirements for sporting events. Applicants for special
events involving any sort of sporting events that involve physical contact
between contestants or sporting events that involve persons running, walking,
or bicycling on public property must comply with the insurance requirements of
division (K)(2) above and obtain and provide proof of appropriate liability
insurance of at least $1,000,000 and appropriate workers compensation
insurance. Proof of such insurance will be attached to the application. This
insurance is required for sporting events unless City Council waives or alters
this requirement.
      (4)   Review by City Attorney and City Administrator. If, in the opinion
of the City Attorney and the City Administrator, the required insurance policy
or policies:
         (a)   Do not comply with these requirements;
         (b)   Include provisions, exclusions, or endorsements that circumvent
the requirements;
         (c)   Include terms that do not accurately reflect and address the
special event, the activities taking place during the special event, or the
risks presented by the special event; or
         (d)   Otherwise present an unacceptable risk to the city, then the
city may require additional insurance, a revised policy, or withdraw approval
for the special event.
      (5)   Indemnity. Regardless of any insurance requirements, event
organizers and vendors shall be required to indemnify and hold harmless the
city and its officers and employees for all damage to property owned or under
the control and management of the city and for all claims made against the city
arising from or related to the event.
      (6)   All organizers of special events are encouraged to obtain
insurance. Even if the city does not require an event to be insured pursuant to
this division or § 153.06(G)(11), all organizers of special events on public
property are encouraged to obtain insurance that covers bodily injury and
property damage, as well as any liability arising out of the use of alcoholic
beverages during the event.
   (L)   Recycling collection required. Sponsors of special events must provide
proof of coordination with Charleston County Environmental Management, or a
suitable alternative arrangement, for the provision of recycling containers and
post-event pick up of recyclable materials. Recyclable materials must be
delivered to a recycling facility for recycling, not to a landfill for
disposal.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 20-14, passed 11-11-14; Am. Ord. 29-15,
passed 1-12-16; Am. Ord. 17-16, passed 7-12-16; Am. Ord. 08-17, passed 4-11-17;
Am. Ord. 07-17, passed 6-13-17; Am. Ord. 22-17, passed 8-8-17; Am. Ord. 29-17,
passed 10-10-17; Am. Ord. 001-22, passed 2-8-22; Am. Ord. 004-22, passed 3-8-
22; Am. Ord. 016-22, passed 5-10-22; Am. Ord. 006-23, passed 4-11-23; Am. Ord.
020-24, passed 8-13-24)
Cross-reference:
   S.C. Code § 5-7-140 gives the city the authority to enforce its ordinances
one mile seaward of the high-tide line.
   The purpose and composition of the Staff Event Planning Committee are
described in §§ 33.018 and 33.019.
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
§ 153.07 THE CITY’S PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.
   The city’s parks and playgrounds that are subject to this ordinance include
but may not be limited to the Folly River Park, the Community Center park, the
City Park (the tennis court and two basketball half-courts), the Timothy
Goodwin Pirates Cove Playground, the dog park, and the Wave Watch Playground.
The number of city parks and playgrounds may grow or shrink over time, and
their names might change. The parks and playgrounds of the city may not be
reserved for the exclusive use of any group unless as part of a city-approved
special event. Groups of 25 or more persons seeking to use a park or playground
for a non-exclusive event must provide the following as notice to the city: the
time, place, duration, and nature of the event and the number of expected
participants, and the name and contact information, including cell phone
numbers, of the person or persons who will be responsible for responding to
complaints or handling problems.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 001-22, passed 2-8-22)
§ 153.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The city’s parks and playgrounds shall normally be open to the public
from 8:00 a.m. to sunset, unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   Events in Folly River Park or the Community Center must end by 11:00
p.m. on Sunday through Thursday and by midnight on Friday, Saturday, holidays,
and Sunday if the following Monday is a recognized holiday.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 001-22, passed 2-8-22)
§ 153.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS MUST BE FOLLOWED.
   (A)   All persons who use the city’s parks and playgrounds shall abide by
the posted rules and regulations.
   (B)   Open fires are prohibited in the city’s parks and playgrounds. Gas
grills may be used.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14)
Cross-reference:
   The responsibility of the Parks and Recreation Board to propose rules and
regulations regarding the use of city parks and playgrounds is contained in §
33.108(A), and City Council’s authority to approve them is contained in §
33.108(B).
§ 153.10 RESERVED.
THE PUBLIC’S USE OF CITY-OWNED BUILDINGS
§ 153.11 THE COMMUNITY CENTER.
   (A)   A person who wants to reserve the Community Center for the exclusive
use of 25 or fewer people shall first make application in City Hall and pay the
appropriate fee, if any.
   (B)   A person who wants to reserve the Community Center for the exclusive
use of more than 25 people shall first make application in City Hall and pay
the appropriate fee, if any, and shall also apply for a special events permit
as provided in §
153.06.
   (C)   Non-profit Folly Beach clubs and organizations are not required to pay
fees or to apply for special event permits in order to use the Community
Center.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14)
§ 153.12 CITY HALL.
   The use by members of the public of City Council Chambers or any space in
City Hall or any other city-owned building except facilities of the Department
of Public Safety shall be at the discretion of the Mayor.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14)
§ 153.13 PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITIES.
   The use by members of the public of the Community Room or other space in
facilities occupied by the Department of Public Safety shall be at the
discretion of the Director of Public Safety.
(Ord. 26-13, passed 2-25-14)
CHAPTER 154: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 155: EMINENT DOMAIN
Section
   
155.001   General provisions
§ 155.001 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   At no time shall the city use eminent domain to buy or condemn real property
and transfer or sell same to any individual or entity for profit.
(Ord. 53-05, passed 8-23-05)
CHAPTER 156: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 157: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 158: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 159: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 160: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
160.01   Title
   
160.02   Authority
      
160.02-01   General
      
160.02-02   Reference to South Carolina General Statutes
   
160.03   Purpose and intent
      
160.03-01   General
   
160.04   Applicability and jurisdiction
      
160.04-01   General
      
160.04-02   Application to governmental units
      
160.04-03   No development until compliance with ZDO
      
160.04-04   Exemptions
   
160.05   Relationship to other codes, ordinances and laws
      
160.05-01   Conflicts with other city codes or laws
      
160.05-02   Conflicts with private agreements
      
160.05-03   Conflicts with state or federal law
   
160.06   Official zoning map
      
160.06-01   Official zoning map
      
160.06-02   Incorporated by reference
      
160.06-03   Zoning district boundaries
      
160.06-04   Changes to official zoning map
      
160.06-05   Transition to new zoning districts
   
160.07   Zoning classification for annexed lands
      
160.07-01   City Council determination
      
160.07-02   Landowner request
   
160.08   Severability
   
160.09   Transitional provisions
      
160.09-01   Effective date
      
160.09-02   Violations continue
      
160.09-03   Completion of permit approvals or completed applications commenced
or approved under previous ordinances
      
160.09-04   Nonconformities
   
160.10   Vested rights
§ 160.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be officially known as the "Zoning and Land
Development Ordinance of the City of Folly Beach," and may be referred to as
the "ZDO", being
Chapters 160 through
169 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.02 AUTHORITY.
   § 160.02-01 General.
   The Folly Beach City Council is authorized to adopt this ZDO pursuant to the
enabling authority contained in the S.C. Code §§ 6-29-710 et. seq., and all
other relevant laws of the State of South Carolina.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.02-02 Reference to South Carolina General Statutes.
   Whenever any provision of this ZDO refers to or cites a section of the S.C.
Code of Laws and that section is later amended or superseded, this ZDO shall be
deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the section that most nearly
corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.03 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   § 160.03-01 General.
   The purpose and intent of this ZDO is to guide development in accordance
with the existing and future needs of the city and its Comprehensive Plan, and
to promote the public health, safety, convenience, order, appearance,
prosperity, and general welfare of the landowners and residents of the city,
and other members of the public. The purpose and intent of this ZDO is more
specifically to:
   (A)   Provide for adequate light and air.
   (B)   Lessen congestion in the streets.
   (C)   Secure safety from fire, flood, and other dangers.
   (D)   Encourage the development of an economically sound and stable city.
   (E)   Promote quality housing and encourage a diversity of housing options.
   (F)   Promote the downtown as a center of commerce, government, arts,
culture, entertainment, and residential life.
   (G)   Encourage infill development that is consistent with its context and
compatible with surrounding uses.
   (H)   Protect and preserve the character of existing neighborhoods.
   (I)   Promote and encourage the development of neighborhoods that maintain
the city's character, and are well-connected, pedestrian-friendly, and
sensitive to natural features.
   (J)   Protect and preserve scenic, historic, and environmentally-sensitive
areas.
   (K)   Provide standards and incentives for tree preservation and protection.
   (L)   Protect riparian areas.
   (M)   Provide for adequate and meaningful open space.
   (N)   Encourage and ensure new residential and business development is
consistent with the general character of the city, and compatible with
surrounding uses.
   (O)   Encourage compact and sustainable growth and development where
appropriate, while avoiding undue concentrations of population.
   (P)   Facilitate the adequate provision or availability of transportation,
police protection, fire protection, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other
public facilities.
   (Q)   Regulate the use, density, distribution of population, and character
of development on land to carry out these purposes.
   (R)   Implement the Comprehensive Plan.
   (S)   Promote energy conservation through green building practices.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.04 APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   § 160.04-01 General.
   The provisions of this ZDO shall apply to the development of all land and
waterways within the corporate limits of the City of Folly Beach, unless it is
expressly exempted by state law, federal law, or a specific section or
subsection of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.04-02 Application to Governmental Units.
   Except as stated herein, the provisions of the ZDO shall apply to:
   (A)   Development of land owned or held in tenancy by the city or its
agencies or departments.
   (B)   Development of land owned or held in tenancy by any county of South
Carolina and its agencies or departments.
   (C)   Development of land owned or held in tenancy by the state of South
Carolina, its agencies, departments or political subdivisions.
   (D)   To the full extent permitted by law, development of land owned or held
in tenancy by the government of the United States, its agencies, departments or
corporate services.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.04-03 No Development Until Compliance with ZDO.
   No structure or land shall be used and no structure or part thereof shall be
located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, converted, demolished or
structurally altered, without full compliance with the provisions of the ZDO
and all other applicable city, state, and federal regulations.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.04-04 Exemptions.
   (A)   Acquisition of interest in land by state for public purposes. The
provisions of this ZDO shall not require formal subdivision of land as a result
of actions taken by the State of South Carolina and its political subdivisions
to acquire land or interests in land for public rights-of-way and easements.
   (B)   Emergency action by city. The city or city agencies or departments may
be exempt from the provisions of this ZDO when an emergency exists such that it
is impossible to submit to the normal procedures and requirements of this ZDO
and quick and instant action is necessary to secure the public health, safety,
or welfare. The City Council shall ratify such exemption after the fact at its
next regularly scheduled meeting, and shall base its ratification on specified
findings of fact related to the emergency involved.
   (C)   Homes for the disabled. Pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-770(E), the
provisions of this ZDO do not apply to a home serving nine or fewer mentally or
physically handicapped persons if the home provides care on a 24-hour basis and
is approved or licensed by a state agency or department or is under contract
with the agency or department for that purpose. Pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-
770(E), prior to locating a home for handicapped persons in the city, the
appropriate state agency or department or the private entity proposing to
operate the home shall first give prior notice to the city, advising of the
exact location of the proposed home, and comply with the other requirements of
that provision, state law, and federal law.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.05 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER CODES, ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   § 160.05-01 Conflicts with Other City Codes or Laws.
   If the provisions of this ZDO are inconsistent with one another or if the
provisions of this ZDO conflict with provisions found in other adopted codes or
ordinances of the city, the more restrictive provision shall govern unless the
terms of the provisions specify otherwise.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.05-02 Conflicts with Private Agreements.
   If the provisions of this ZDO conflict with the provisions of private
easements, covenants, or restrictions, the stricter of the requirements shall
apply. The city shall not be responsible for monitoring or enforcing private
covenants and restrictions, although the city may inquire as to whether land is
subject to covenants and restrictions during the review of development
applications.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.05-03 Conflicts with State or Federal Law.
   If the provisions of this ZDO are inconsistent with the law or regulations
of the state or federal government, the more restrictive provision shall
control, to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.06 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   § 160.06-01 Official Zoning Map.
   (A)   General. The official zoning map designates the location and
boundaries of the various zoning districts established in this ZDO within the
city. The official zoning map shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrator and is available for public inspection during normal business
hours. The original official version of the map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor attested by the City Clerk-Treasurer, and shall bear the
seal of the city. It may be kept in either hard copy or digital form. It shall
be the final authority as to the status of the current zone district
classification of land in the city, and shall only be amended in accordance
with this subsection.
   (B)   Damaged, destroyed, or lost. In the event the official zoning map is
damaged, destroyed, lost, or becomes difficult to read and interpret due to the
number of changes, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new official
zoning map to replace the damaged, destroyed, or lost map. The new official
zoning map shall not make any substantive changes (amendments), but may correct
drafting and other clerical errors and omissions on the previous official
zoning map. The revised official version of the map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor attested by the City Clerk-Treasurer, and shall bear the
seal of the city. Unless the previous official zoning map is lost or has been
totally destroyed, the previous map and any significant parts remaining shall
be preserved, together with all records of the City Council regarding its
adoption and amendment.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.06-02 Incorporated by Reference.
   The official zoning map and all the notations thereon are hereby
incorporated by reference and made part of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.06-03 Zoning District Boundaries.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for applying the official
zoning map, and interpretations of the official zoning map in accordance with
the standards in §
162.03-14, Interpretation, and the following standards:
   (A)   Boundaries delineated by the centerline of streets, highways, or
alleys shall follow such centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries delineated by lot lines shall follow such lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries shown parallel to or as extensions of features indicated in
this subsection shall be interpreted as such. Distances not specifically
indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the
map.
   (D)   Where the actual location of existing physical or natural features
vary from those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances not
covered by this subsection, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority
to interpret the district boundaries (See §
162.03-14, Interpretation). Appeals of the Zoning Administrator's decision
shall be reviewed by the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) in accordance with §
162.03-15, Appeals.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.06-04 Changes to Official Zoning Map.
   Changes made in zoning district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the
official zoning map shall be made in accordance with the provisions of §
162.03-01, Amendments to Text and Official Zoning Map. Changes shall be entered
on the official zoning map by the Zoning Administrator promptly after the
amendment has been approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.07 ZONING CLASSIFICATION FOR ANNEXED LANDS.
   § 160.07-01 City Council Determination.
   The City Council shall determine the zoning designation of lands added to
the city's jurisdiction through annexation at the time such lands are added
based on the following factors:
   (A)   The land's designation on the Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
   (B)   The land's current land use;
   (C)   The existence of a previously-approved site or subdivision plan;
   (D)   The character of adjacent lands;
   (E)   Current county zoning designations;
   (F)   Landowner requests; and
   (G)   Other factors considered relevant at the time of the annexation.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.07-02 Landowner Request.
   Any landowner within an area to be added to the city's jurisdiction through
annexation may submit a petition requesting a specific zoning designation. If
such petition is received prior to the time the land is added to the city's
jurisdiction, then the public hearing for the application of a base zoning
district may be held concurrently with any public hearing required for the
annexation. (See §
162.03-01, Amendments to Text and Official Zoning Map)
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.08 SEVERABILITY.
   It is the legislative intent of the City Council in adopting this ZDO that
all provisions shall be liberally construed to guide development in accordance
with the existing and future needs of the city as established in this ZDO and
to promote the public health, safety, convenience, order, appearance,
prosperity, and general welfare of the land owners and residents of the city.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ZDO is for any
reason held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ZDO. The City
Council hereby declares that if would have passed this ZDO and any section,
subsection, sentence, clause and phrase, thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared invalid.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.09 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   § 160.09-01 Effective Date.
   The effective date of this ZDO is March 23, 2010.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.09-02 Violations Continue.
   Any violation of the previous zoning ordinance or Land Development;
Subdivisions,
Chapter 153 of the City Code of Ordinances, shall continue to be a violation
under this ZDO. Violations of this ZDO shall be subject to the penalties and
enforcement set forth in
Chapter 169: Enforcement, and any other applicable ordinances, laws, or
statutes, unless the use, development, construction, or other activity complies
with the express terms of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.09-03 Completion of Permit Approvals or Completed Applications
Commenced or Approved Under Previous Ordinances.
   (A)   Any complete development application that has been submitted for
approval, but upon which no final action has been taken by the appropriate
decision-making body or person prior to March 23, 2010 shall be reviewed and
considered in accordance with either the provisions of the development
regulations in place on the date of submittal, or this ZDO, at the applicant's
option. Any complete development application that is submitted on or after
March 23, 2010 shall be reviewed and considered in accordance with the
provisions of this ZDO.
   (B)   If the applicant elects to have the application reviewed under the
regulations in place on the date of application submittal:
      (1)   The application shall be processed in good faith and shall comply
with any time frames for review, approval, and completion as established in the
regulations in pldce at the time of application submittal. If the application
fails to comply with the required time frames, it shall expire and future
development shall be subject to the requirements of this ZDO.
      (2)   If the complete application is approved, the development for which
the application was approved shall comply with any time frames and conditions
of approval imposed as part of the development approval, or the development
approval shall expire and future development shall be subject to the
requirements of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 160.09-04 Nonconformities.
   (A)   Nonconformities under prior ordinance. Any nonconformity under the
previous development regulations will also be a nonconformity under this ZDO as
long as the situation that resulted in the nonconforming status under the
previous regulations continues to exist. If a nonconformity under the previous
regulations becomes conforming because of the adoption of this ZDO, then the
situation will no longer be a nonconformity.
   (B)   Uses and structures rendered nonconforming.
      (1)   When a lot is used for a purpose that was a lawful use before the
effective date of this ZDO, and this ZDO results in the use becoming
nonconforming, such use shall be considered nonconforming and shall be
controlled by the provisions of
Chapter 168: Nonconformities.
      (2)   Where any building, structure, or lot that legally existed on the
effective date of this ZDO does not meet all standards set forth in this ZDO,
such building, structure, or lot shall be considered nonconforming and shall be
controlled by the provisions of
Chapter 168: Nonconformities.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 160.10 VESTED RIGHTS.
   Vested rights for site-specific development plans may only be established
under the conditions and limitations set out in S.C. Code §§ 6-29-1540 and 6-
29-1550, as enacted by Act 287 of 2004, and hereby incorporated by reference
into this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 161: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
161.01   Rules of interpretation
      
161.01-01   Meanings and intent
      
161.01-02   Headings, illustration and text
      
161.01-03   Lists and examples
      
161.01-04   Computation of time
      
161.01-05   References to other regulations/publications
      
161.01-06   Delegation of authority
      
161.01-07   Technical and non-technical terms
      
161.01-08   Public officials and agencies
      
161.01-09   Mandatory and discretionary terms
      
161.01-10   Conjunctions
      
161.01-11   Tenses, plurals and gender
      
161.01-12   Term not defined
   
161.02   Definitions
§ 161.01 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The following rules shall apply for construing or interpreting the terms and
provisions of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-01 Meanings and Intent.
   All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this ZDO shall
be construed according to the general purposes set forth in §
160.03, Purpose and Intent, and the specific purpose statements set forth
throughout this ZDO. When a specific section of these regulations gives a
different meaning than the general definition provided in this
Chapter 161: Definitions, the specific section's meaning and application of the
term shall control.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-02 Headings, Illustrations, and Text.
   In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the text of this ZDO and
any heading, caption, figure, illustration, table, or map, the text shall
control.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-03 Lists and Examples.
   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples that use
terms such as "for example," "including," and "such as," or similar language
are intended to provide examples and are not exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-04 Computation of Time.
   The time in which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the
first day and including the last day. If a deadline or required date of action
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by the city, the deadline or
required date of action shall be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or
holiday observed by the city. References to days are calendar days unless
otherwise stated.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-05 References to Other Regulations/Publications.
   Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation,
or document, it should be construed as a reference to the most recent edition
of such regulation, resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document,
unless otherwise specifically stated.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-06 Delegation of Authority.
   Any act authorized by this ZDO to be carried out by a specific official of
the city may be carried out by a professional-level designee of such official.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-07 Technical and Non-Technical Terms.
   Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases that may have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such meaning.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-08 Public Officials and Agencies.
   All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which references are made are
those of the City of Folly Beach, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-09 Mandatory and Discretionary Terms.
   The words SHALL, MUST, and WILL are mandatory in nature, establishing an
obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision. The words MAY and
SHOULD are permissive in nature.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-10 Conjunctions.
   Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, conjunctions shall be
interpreted as follows:
   (A)   AND indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply; and
   (B)   OR indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events apply.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-11 Tenses, Plurals, and Gender.
   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the
singular number include the plural number and the plural number includes the
singular number, unless the context of the particular usage clearly indicates
otherwise. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender, and
vice versa.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 161.01-12 Term Not Defined.
   In the event there is a term used in this ZDO that is not defined in this
section, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to provide a
definition through the interpretation procedure, §
162.03-14, Interpretation, based upon the definitions used in accepted sources,
including but not limited to The Planners Dictionary, A Glossary of Zoning,
Development, and Planning Terms, and A Survey of Zoning Definitions, published
by the American Planning Association.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 161.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this ZDO, shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this section.
   ABUTTING.  The condition of two adjoining lots having a common property line
or boundary including cases where two or more lots adjoin a corner, but not
including cases where adjoining lots are separated by a street or alley.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is subordinate in use and square
footage to a principal structure or permitted use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use that is customarily incidental, appropriate, and
subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings and is located upon the
same lot.
   ACCESSWAY. A private paved vehicular way providing ingress and egress to an
off-street parking area.
   ACTIVE RECREATION USES. Uses or structures intended for specific active
recreational uses such as play grounds, ball fields, tennis courts and other
similar uses typically located in open space set-aside areas.
   ADDITION. An attached structure added to an original structure after the
completion of the original.
   ADJACENT. A lot or parcel of land that shares all or part of a common lot
line or boundary with another lot or parcel of land or that is directly across
a public street or right-of-way.
   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
accordance with §
162.03-05, Administrative Adjustments.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which by law excludes
minors by virtue of the fact that a substantial portion of its business is
sexually explicit. Includes but not limited to, adult arcades, adult book
stores, adult video stores, adult theaters (drive-in, picture, and mini-
picture), adult cabarets, massage parlors, or adult entertainment
establishments.
   AGGRIEVED PARTY.  A person, with a legally recognized interest (i.e., fee
simple ownership) and standing to appeal, that is injuriously affected by a
decision from any decision-making body of the city, including any officer or
agent of the city.
   ALTERNATIVE LANDSCAPING PLAN. A plan or other proposal to utilize one or
more of the alternative landscaping provisions in §
166.02-08, Alternative Landscaping Plan, as a means of meeting the landscaping
provisions despite topographical or other constraints.
   ALTERNATIVE PARKING PLAN. A plan or other proposal to utilize one or more of
the alternative parking provisions in §
166.06-09, Alternative Parking Plan, as a means of providing more off-street
parking spaces than typically allowed or fewer spaces than required.
   AMENDMENTS TO TEXT AND OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. An amendment to the official
zoning map or the text of this ZDO adopted by the City Council in accordance
with §
162.03-01, Amendments to Text and Official Zoning Map.
   AMERICAN STANDARD FOR NURSERY STOCKS (ANSI). The horticultural naming guide
as referenced in this ZDO.
   ANIMAL CARE.  A facility engaged in care, grooming, boarding, provision of
veterinary services, or adoption of animals typically maintained by individuals
as domestic animals or household pets.
   ANNEXATION. The addition of lands to the corporate boundaries of the City of
Folly Beach, South Carolina, by the City Council in accordance with state law.
   APPEALS.  A request for review of an administrative official's or decision-
making body's interpretation or decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with §
162.03-15, Appeals.
   APPLICANT. A person, firm, or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to obtain approval or a permit for a land-disturbing activity.
   ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING. Exterior lighting that is designed to highlight
structures, plantings, or significant architectural features in a direct or
indirect fashion.
   ASSESSED VALUE. The monetary price of a parcel of land, portion of land,
improvement on land, or other commodity assigned by the Charleston County
Property Appraiser's office for the purposes of taxation.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. A person with express written consent to act upon
another's behalf.
   BAR, NIGHTCLUB, OR SIMILAR ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment having as its
principal or predominant use the serving of beer, wine, or liquor for
consumption on the premises. An establishment is not a bar if the
establishment:
      (1)   Has a Class A restaurant license from the State of South Carolina;
      (2)   Maintains a full service restaurant on its premises at all times
when it is open to the public for business; and
      (3)   Provides facilities for seating not less than 40 persons
simultaneously at tables for the service of meals.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. An elevation above mean sea level that has a 1% chance
of being inundated in any given year in a given location as identified by FEMA
Flood Rate Insurance Maps.
   BASELINE. The jurisdictional line separating public beach from private
property as adopted by the city and SCDES pursuant to the State Beachfront
Management Act.
   BED AND BREAKFAST.  A private residence, generally a single-family detached
dwelling, engaged in renting one or more dwelling rooms on a daily basis to
tourists, vacationers, and business people, where provision of meals is limited
to guests only.
   BENEFICIAL USE DETERMINATION. A permit issued by the City Council in
accordance with §
162.03-16, Beneficial Use Determination.
   BERM. An elongated earthen mound typically designed or constructed on a site
to separate, screen, or buffer adjacent uses.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. A wide range of management procedures, schedules
of activities, prohibitions on practices and other management protocols which
have been demonstrated to effectively control the quality and quantity of storm
water runoff, and which are compatible with the land use or other land
disturbing activity.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways
or boundary line of municipalities.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS or BZA. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the City of
Folly Beach, as established by this ZDO.
   BUFFER.  
      (1)   Vegetative material and structures (i.e., walls, fences) that are
used to separate uses from each other as required by this ZDO.
      (2)   When used in the context of required marsh buffers, a buffer is an
area of land reserved adjacent to critical areas that serves to mitigate the
effects of development. The buffer is intended to be left intact with existing
vegetation or supplemented with approved native plant material.
   BUILDING. A structure with a roof, intended for shelter, housing, or
enclosure.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. See LOT COVERAGE.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE. The three-dimensional space within which a structure is
permitted to be built on a lot and that is defined by maximum height
regulations, and minimum yard setbacks or build-to lines, buffers, easements,
or other applicable regulations.
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The area of a lot or parcel of land included within the
surrounding exterior walls or outermost projection of the roof of a building or
portion of a building, exclusive of courtyards.
   BUILDING LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance between
the nearest part of any building, excluding porches, bay windows, covered
porches, decks, and patios, to the nearest edge of a street right-of-way, lot
line, or easement.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The Building Official, as designated by this ZDO.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Building Official in accordance with
§
162.03-08, Building Permit.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted.
   CALIPER.  A horticultural method of measuring the diameter of a tree trunk
for the purpose of determining size. The caliper of the trunk is measured six
inches above the ground for trees up to and including four inches in diameter,
12 inches above the ground for trees greater than four inches and up to ten
inches in diameter, and at breast height (4 ½ feet) for trees ten inches or
greater in diameter.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by a the Building Official
allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure
or use has been constructed or will be used in compliance with this ZDO and all
other applicable regulations.
   CHANGE OF USE.  The change in the use of a structure or land, for which a
zoning permit is required. Change of use shall include a change from one use to
another use in the list of permitted uses, and shall also include a change from
one use to another use within any broad category of uses, such as from one use
listed in the nonresidential use category to another use listed in the
nonresidential use category, as herein defined.
   CHARLESTON COUNTY. The County of Charleston, South Carolina.
   CITY. The City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The attorney for the City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   CITY CODE OF ORDINANCES. The official Code of Ordinances for the City of
Folly Beach adopted by the Folly Beach City Council.
   CITY CLERK-TREASURER. The City Clerk for the City of Folly Beach, South
Carolina.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   COASTAL COUNCIL. See SOUTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
(SCDES).
   COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT. A congressional act referenced in this ZDO that
encourages states to develop coastal management plans.
   COMMERCIAL PARKING. Any exchange of the use of a parking space on private
parking for compensation whether long term or short term.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION, INDOOR. A private, indoor (entirely within enclosed
structure) use providing for sport and recreation activities that are operated
or carried on primarily for financial gain. Examples of indoor commercial
recreation uses include, but are not limited to, fitness centers, bowling
alleys, skating rinks, indoor commercial swimming pools, and racquet and tennis
club facilities (indoor).
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION, OUTDOOR. A private, outdoor use providing facilities
for sport activities, which is operated or carried on primarily for financial
gain, outdoors. Examples of outdoor commercial recreation uses include, but are
not limited to, privately owned golf driving ranges, miniature golf facilities,
outdoor commercial tourist attractions, and privately owned active sports
facilities such as ballfields and basketball courts, racquet and tennis club
facilities (outdoor), and drive-in theatres.
   COMMON AREA. Used in reference to a conservation subdivision, a common area
is a portion of a development that is not individually owned or dedicated for
public use, but is intended for use by residents of the subdivision. Often
common areas are reserved for recreation purposes including playgrounds or
plazas.
   COMMUNITY DETERMINED BFE. To be used when BFE is not determined on the FIRM.
In AO Zones, flood depth is used as BFE. In zones without a BFE or flood depth
established (usually Shaded Xand X Zones), BFE is Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG).
   COMMUNITY OR NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER. A public building to be used as a place of
meeting, recreation, or social activity and not operated for profit.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan adopted by the City Council. Also
known as the Folly Beach Comprehensive Plan.
   CONNECTIVITY. The relative degree of connection between streets, sidewalks,
or other means of travel.
   CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION.  The division of a tract of land into three or
more lots, building sites, or other divisions along with additional land area
set aside as open space for conservation or recreation purposes in accordance
with §
167.02, Conservation Subdivision.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a preliminary
subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of public or
infrastructure improvements to be installed in the subdivision in accordance
with the requirements of the Planning Commission as a condition of the approval
of the plat.
   CONTIGUOUS. Lots or areas sharing an edge or common boundary.
   COVENANT.  A formal agreement between two or more private parties that is
not enforced by the city.
   CONVENTION FACILITY. A facility designed to accommodate less than 500
persons and used for conferences, seminars, product displays, recreation
activities, and entertainment functions, along with accessory functions
including temporary outdoor displays, food and beverage preparation, and
service for on-premise consumption.
   COUNTY. Charleston County, South Carolina.
   CRITICAL AREA. Sensitive natural areas demarcated on the official zoning map
that include coastal waters, tidal areas, and beach/dune systems where the
SCDES has permitting authority over new development.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. An underground area extending laterally in all four
cardinal directions from the base of a tree's trunk to a distance the greater
of one-and-one-half times the perimeter of the tree's dripline, or a distance
of nine inches in radius from the trunk for each inch of trunk diameter at
breast height.
   CROSS-ACCESS.  Vehicular access provided between the vehicular use areas of
two or more development sites or parcels of land intended to allow travel
between the sites without the use of a public or private street.
   DAY CARE.  A place where daytime care, supervision, and protection is
provided to three or more children or adults who are not the legal wards or
foster children of the attendant adult within an occupied residence.
   DAY CARE, FAMILY DAYCARE HOME. A home in which care is given in a family
during the day only for no more than seven children, including residents.
   DAY CARE, GROUP DAYCARE HOME. A home in which care is given in a family
during the day only for no more than 15 children, including residents.
   DENSITY. The total number of dwelling units on the entire area of a tract or
lot divided by the lot acreage.
   DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION. Base flood elevation plus freeboard requirement, or
community determined base flood elevation plus freeboard requirement.
   DESIGN REVIEW BOARD (DRB). The Design Review Board, as designated by this
ZDO.
   DEVELOPER.  
      (1)   The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or its representative
who is responsible for any undertaking that requires review or approval under
these regulations.
      (2)   Any person undertaking any development as defined by this ZDO.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction, reconstruction, remodeling, conversion,
structural alteration, relocation, enlargement, or demolition of any structure,
portion of a structure, or sign; any change in use in land, building, or
structure, or material change in the appearance of any structure; any increase
in the number of dwelling units, businesses, manufacturing establishments, or
offices; any mining, excavation, filling, grading, paving, or land disturbance;
and any act of subdivision of land.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.  A permit reviewed and approved, approved with
conditions, or denied by the City Council in accordance with §
162.04, Development Agreements.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. For the purposes of §
162.04, Development Agreements, includes a building permit, zoning permit,
preliminary or final subdivision plat approval, amendment to the official
zoning map, variance permits (subdivisions or zoning), or any other official
action of the city having the effect of permitting the development of land.
   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE. The Development Review Committee, as
designated by this ZDO.
   DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH). The measurement of the diameter of a tree
trunk over ten inches in diameter taken at a height of four-and-one-half feet
above the ground. Trees with multiple trunks should be treated as multiple
trees and the DBH for each trunk added to aggregate diameter measurement.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY. The Director of Public Safety for the City of
Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of the Public Works for the City of
Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   DISTRICT. An area delineated on the official zoning map which sets forth
standards and guidelines for all development within the prescribed district.
   DOCK. A structure normally connected to the shoreline into a navigable body
of water which is used as a landing place for vessels.
   DOCK, COMMUNITY.  A boat docking facility that is used by members of the
general public for docking or mooring ten or fewer vessels, and does not
provide fueling, pump-out, or maintenance repair services.
   DOCK, PRIVATE. A dock under private ownership not intended for use by
members of the general public.
   DOCK, PUBLIC. A dock, under public or private ownership, available for use
by members of the general public.
   DRIP LINE. A vertical line that extends from the outermost branches of a
tree's canopy to the ground around the circumference of the tree.
   DWELLING, ACCESSORY.  A secondary dwelling unit established in conjunction
with and clearly subordinate to a principal dwelling unit, whether part of the
same structure as the principal dwelling unit, or as a detached structure on
the same lot.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.  A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for three or more families living independently of each other and
doing their cooking therein.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family in a manner that cannot be physically separated into multiple
dwelling units.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family including a complete kitchen.
   DUNE. The sandy, vegetated hills that border beachfront.
   EASEMENT.  A grant by a landowner to another landowner or to the public, for
the right to occupy or use designated land for specific purposes, such as
access, drainage, conservation, the location of public improvements, or other
specified purpose. An easement does not constitute fee simple ownership of the
land.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. Any sign that uses changing lights or electronic
or digital display to form a changing sign message wherein the message or
sequence of messages and the rate of change can be modified by electronic
processes.
   EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION TOWER. A communications tower, antenna, or other
similar facility owned or operated by a public entity or agency for the sole
purpose of public safety or communication.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any portion of a structure or appurtenance extending beyond a
designated zoning setback, easement, property line, required yard, or public
right-of-way.
   ENGINEERED STORMWATER CONTROLS. The system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches, and appurtenances that serve to collect and convey stormwater through
and from a given drainage area.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE. Established grade is the finished grade following
grading, excavation, or other land-disturbing activity.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Structures, buildings, site specific plan or other
projects that are completely built or have established a common law vested
right as of the effective date of this ZDO.
   EXISTING GRADE. Existing grade is the natural grade of the land that
precedes grading, excavation, or other land-disturbing activity.
   FACADE. The exterior wall of a building. Facades may be on the front, side,
or rear elevation of the building.
   FAMILY.  An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of not
more than five persons not related by blood, marriage, or adoption living
together as a single housekeeping unit, as in a group home.
   FEE-IN-LIEU. Cash payments that may be required of an owner or developer as
a substitute for a dedication or set-aside of land.
   FENCE. A structure used to delineate a boundary or act as a barrier or means
of protection, confinement, or screening.
   FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT.  See SUBDIVISION PLAT, FINAL.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to a higher risk of flooding than other
areas outside the flood hazard area, as depicted on the federal Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM).
   FLOODPLAIN. Areas including and contiguous with lakes, streams, other bodies
of water, as well as inland depressional areas whose elevation is equal to or
lower than the projected 100-year flood elevation.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including the
basement) such as the top of the slab in concrete slab construction or the top
of the wood flooring in wood frame construction.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor of the
principal building and any accessory buildings or structures, measured from the
exterior walls or from the center line of party walls. The term does not
include any area used exclusively for the surface parking of motor vehicles or
for building or equipment access, such as stairs, elevator shafts, and
maintenance crawl space.
   FOLLY BEACH BUILDING CODE. The City of Folly Beach's Building Code, as
referenced in this ZDO.
   FOOTCANDLE.  The amount of light that falls onto a surface as emitted by an
exterior lighting device.
   FORMULA BUSINESS. A business with ten or more outlets anywhere in the world;
and with standardized services, such as merchandise, trademark, logo, uniforms,
décor, and the like.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. A facility used to house a non-profit social or
recreational league which is used exclusively by members and their guests.
   FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting a street and ordinarily regarded as the
"front" of a lot.
   GENUS. The scientific name assigned that, along with its species name,
designates a particular living organism.
   GLARE. The reflection or harsh, bright light and the physical effect
resulting from high luminance or insufficiently shielded light sources to cause
annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITIES. An office or other facility of a governmental agency
that provides administrative or direct services to the public, such as, but not
limited to, employment offices, public assistance offices, motor vehicle
licensing and registration services, maintenance and repair centers, equipment,
or outdoor storage yards.
   GRADE. Grade means the level of the finished ground surface immediately
adjacent to the exterior walls of a building.
   GRADE, STREET. The height of the top of the curb, or if no curb exists, the
height of the edge of pavement in the lane of travel.
   GRADING. Excavating, filling (including hydraulic fill) or stockpiling of
earth material, or any combination thereof, including the land in its excavated
or filled condition.
   GRADING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Director of Public Works in
accordance with §
162.03-09, Grading Permit.
   GREATER STREET SYSTEM.  The network of all existing public streets within
the city.
   GRID PATTERN.  The rectangular or square land use pattern made up of city
streets and blocks intersecting at right angles.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the centerline of walls separating two buildings, excluding attic areas
with a headroom of less than seven feet, unenclosed stairs or fire escapes,
elevator structures, cooling towers, areas devoted to air conditioning,
ventilating or heating or other building machinery and equipment, parking
structures and basement space where the ceiling is not more than 48 inches
above the general finished and graded level of the adjacent part of the lot.
   HEARING OFFICER. The Hearing Officer, as designated by this ZDO.
   HEIGHT. The distance from the top of the first living floor surface to the
highest point of a structure.
   HIGH GROUND. The contiguous buildable portions of a lot located outside of
SCDES critical areas, wetlands, marsh, dune setbacks, and other resource
protection areas.
   HIGHWAY.  A controlled access highway that is part of the federal interstate
highway or statewide uniform highway system.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business, profession, occupation, or trade which is
conducted within a residential dwelling unit for the economic gain or support
of a resident of the dwelling, and is incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the lot and which does not adversely or perceptively affect
the character of the lot or surrounding area. HOME OCCUPATION includes but is
not limited to: offices; electronic and offsite retail; personal services such
as physical therapy by licensed individuals, beauty parlors, pet grooming, and
the like. HOME OCCUPATION does not include such businesses as: automotive
repair and the like; dentists or  physician's offices and the like; any
licensed or unlicensed practitioner who performs invasive procedures
(acupuncture, tattooing, body piercing, and the like); restaurants, bars,
social clubs and the like; animal kennels or hospitals and the like; or any
other business which is clearly inappropriate or out of character for a
residential area such that its location constitutes an adverse impact on
neighboring residential properties.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION.  An association or organization, whether or not
incorporated, which operates under and pursuant to recorded covenants or deed
restrictions, through which each owner of a portion of the development is
automatically a member and is subject to a charge or assessment for a pro-rated
share of expenses of the association which may become a lien against a lot,
parcel, unit, condominium or other interest.
   HOTEL, MOTEL AND INN. Hotel, motel and inn are to be considered synonymous
uses. A hotel, motel or inn means a building or a group of buildings in which
sleeping accommodations are offered to the public and intended primarily for
rental for temporary occupancy by persons on an overnight basis, not including
bed and breakfast establishments or a rooming house. Such uses may include
microwaves and refrigerators for each guest unit.
   HUE. The visible color emitted from an artificial source of exterior
lighting.
   ILLUMINATING ENGINEERING SOCIETY OF AMERICA. As referenced in this ZDO, the
Illuminating Engineering Society of America, an organization charged with
setting illumination standards.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Buildings, parking areas, driveways, streets,
sidewalks, areas of concrete, asphalt, or other compacted aggregate such as
ROC, and areas covered by the outdoor storage of goods or materials which do
not absorb water. River rock, lava stone, or other aggregate products with no
compactible base used for landscaping or foot paths are considered pervious.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, bridge, work of art, area, parking
facility, public facility, fence, gate, wall, landscaping, or other object, or
any part thereof, constituting physical addition to real property.
   INSTITUTE OF TRAFFIC ENGINEERS. As referenced in this ZDO, the Institute of
Traffic Engineers, an organization charged with setting transportation
standards.
   INFILL DEVELOPMENT.  The development of new structures or redevelopment of
existing structures on a lot located in a portion of the city that is already
developed.
   INTERPRETATION. A decision made in writing by the Zoning Administrator in
accordance with the standards in §
162.03-14, Interpretation.
   KITCHEN. An area within a structure that is used or designed to be used for
the preparation or cooking of food and contains a sink, refrigeration unit, and
cooking unit.
   LAND. The earth, water, and air, above, below, or on the surface, and
includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as land.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of the land by any person for development
that results in a change in the natural cover or topography and that may cause
or contribute to loss of vegetation, accelerated erosion, or sedimentation.
   LANDSCAPE PLAN.  A plan or other proposal prepared in accordance with §
166.02-03(A), Landscape Plan, that demonstrates how landscaping will be applied
on a developed site.
   LANDSCAPE STRIP, PERIMETER. Vegetative material associated with the
perimeter landscaping required for a vehicular use area.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles, and not considered as part
of the minimum required off-street surface parking.
   LOT.  A parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for
building development or both.
   LOT, FLAG.  A lot that abuts or gains access to a street through a narrow
portion which does not meet the minimum frontage or lot width requirements for
the zoning district where it is located.
   LOT, VACANT. A lawfully-established lot of record without a building or
structure.
   LOT AREA, MINIMUM. The minimum amount of land area, measured horizontally,
included within the lines of a lot as required by this ZDO. Lands located
within any private easements shall be included within the lot size.
   LOT COVERAGE. Lot coverage is a measure of intensity of a use of land that
represents the portion of a site that is covered by impervious surfaces. This
portion includes, but is not limited to areas covered by structures (including
decks), parked structures, driveways, streets, sidewalks, and any other areas
covered by an impervious surface material, including areas of outdoor storage.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The front lot line is the line connecting the two side lot
lines along the edge of the lot adjacent to the right-of-way of the street that
provides the lot's street address (also referred to as the LOT FRONTAGE).
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the Register of Mesne Conveyance, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Mesne
Conveyance prior to March 23, 2010.
   MAJOR UTILITY. See UTILITY, MAJOR.
   MARKET VALUE. The estimated amount for which real property should exchange
on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an
arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each
acted knowledgeably, prudently, and without compulsion.
   MARINA. A facility for the docking, mooring, berthing, or storage of
watercraft. Such uses may include a wide variety of accessory uses such as
retail sales, personal services, laundries, boot repair and rental.
   MARSH. A low-lying wetland defined by its unique vegetation, hydrology, and
soil characteristics.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. No feasible or practical alternative exists, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator or other city official, and all possible
efforts to comply with the standards or regulation or minimize potential
harmful or adverse impacts have been undertaken by an applicant. Economic
considerations may be taken into account but shall not be the overriding factor
determining MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE.
   MAXIMUM FIRE RATED CAPACITY. The maximum allowable occupancy of a structure
based on fire codes.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITY. An establishment where patients are admitted for
examination and treatment by one or more physicians, dentists, or
psychologists, and where patients may or may not be lodged overnight.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT. See SUBDIVISION PLAT, MINOR.
   MINOR UTILITY. See UTILITY, MINOR.
   MONOPOLE TOWER. An antenna-supporting structure typically composed of a
single steel shaft with one or more platforms intended for mounting antennas or
other communications equipment.
   NATURAL HAZARD AREA. Undeveloped areas that because of their topography,
soil conditions, hydrology, vegetation, or other natural features, are
considered at risk and undesirable for development. Natural hazard areas
include floodplains, dunes, and steep slopes.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HORTICULTURE. The maintenance or growth of plants for personal
use. Noncommercial horticulture uses include but are not limited to gardening
or landscaping.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.  A lot of record that was legally established
before the effective date of this ZDO or the subsequent amendment thereof, but
that does not comply with the lot area standards in
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards, that applies in the zoning district in
which the lot of record is located.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign or sign structure, legally developed before the
effective date of this ZDO, or any amendment thereto, that does not comply with
the standards in §
166.08, Sign Standards.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.  A structure or portion thereof, not including
signs, legally developed before the effective date of this ZDO, or any
amendment thereto, that does not comply with the dimensional standards in
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards, that apply in the zoning district in which
the structure is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The legal use of a structure or premises before the
effective date of this ZDO, or any amendment thereto, that does not comply with
the use standards of this ZDO.
   NONCONFORMITY. A nonconforming use, structure, lot of record, or sign.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.  The official map depicting the various zoning district
classifications set out in
Chapter 163: Zoning Districts.
   OFFICE. A room, or group of rooms typically within a single structure used
for conducting the affairs of one or several business or professional
establishment such as offices for retail and wholesale establishments, offices
for lawyers, accountants, engineers, architects, doctors, dentists, banking
services, investment banking, stock brokerage, investment services, credit card
services, and similar activities.
   OPACITY. A measurement indicating the degree of obscuration of light or
visibility.
   OPEN SPACE. Space suitable for passive recreation, gardens or landscaping
which may include areas left in their natural state, trails, ponds, stream
banks, recreation areas, areas of excessive slopes, low-lying areas,
environmentally-sensitive areas, and required landscaping areas. Such space
must be free of automobile traffic and parking, and be readily accessible to
all those for whom it is required. Marsh lands or other areas beyond the SCDES
critical line shall not be considered as open space for the purposes of
compliance with §
166.03, Open Space Standards.
   OPEN SPACE SET-ASIDE. Portion of a proposed development required for
reservation as permanent open space by §
166.03, Open Space Standards.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY/SALES. The placement of products or materials for sale
outside the entrance of a retail or wholesale sales establishment.
   OUTDOOR RETAILERS. Any business that rents, leases, or sells products
(including food products) to the public at a location in Folly Beach other than
in a permanent building or without a permanent location in the city. OUTDOOR
RETAILERS include businesses that conduct business primarily from vehicles of
any description, trailers, storage units, mobile units, carts, stands, booths,
tables, tents, or open spaces (for example, golf cart and bicycle rentals).
This excludes businesses with a city franchise, which are governed by
Chapter 118.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unroofed area of any goods, junk,
material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours.
This shall not include the display of vehicles for sale in a new or used car
sales lot. Such activities may be the principal use of the land where located
or as an accessory use to another principal use.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district that includes supplementary or
replacement regulations to the requirements of the underlying, base zoning
district.
   PARK, PUBLIC. City-maintained land used for recreation, exercise, sports,
education, rehabilitation, or similar activities, or a land area intended to
enhance the enjoyment of natural features or natural beauty, specifically
excluding commercially operated amusement parks.
   PARKING, OFF-SITE. An off-street parking area provided on a different parcel
than the use it is intended to serve.
   PARKING, ON STREET. A location or area within the right-of-way of a public
or private street that is reserved for the parking of vehicles. Such areas may
or may not be formally designated with signage, striping, or parking meters.
   PARKING, SHARED. Off-street parking facilities shared by two or more uses
that are in close proximity to one another and the parking area, and that have
different operational characteristics such that use of the parking facilities
by one use will not generally overlap with the use of the parking area by the
other use(s).
   PARKING, TANDEM.  A parking space within a group of two or more parking
spaces arranged one behind the other.
   PARKING BAY. The parking module consisting of one or two rows of parking
spaces or stalls and the aisle from which motor vehicles enter and leave the
spaces.
   PARKING DEMAND STUDY. An analysis of the total number of parking spaces
required in order to accommodate the maximum number of vehicles for parking
purposes by a particular use or site at any given time, including the parking
requirements for all employees, occupants, clients, and visitors.
   PARKING LOT. The portion of a site or development dedicated to vehicular
ingress and egress, off-street parking, parking aisles, internal travel ways,
fire lanes, and other areas dedicated to vehicular use, but not necessarily
including vehicular storage areas. The portion of a site or development
dedicated to vehicular ingress and egress, off-street parking, parking aisles,
internal travel ways, fire lanes, and other areas dedicated to vehicular use,
but not necessarily including vehicular storage areas.
   PARKING LOT, MUNICIPAL. A parking lot that is maintained by the city and
that typically serves public uses.
   PARKING LOT, PRIVATE.  A parking lot that is maintained by a private entity
and that typically serves private uses.
   PARKING LOT DRIVE AISLE.  A vehicular accessway located within an off-street
parking or vehicular use area which serves individual parking stalls and
driveways.
   PARKING SPACE, ACCESSIBLE. A space designated for the parking or temporary
storage of one motor vehicle in addition to the space necessary for the ingress
and egress from the vehicle by a disabled person and any equipment needed for
that purpose.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.  A space that is designated for the parking or
temporary storage of one motor vehicle located outside of a dedicated street
right-of-way, vehicular travel way, or parking aisle.
   PARKING STRUCTURE.  A structure designed to accommodate vehicular parking
spaces that are fully or partially enclosed or located on the deck surface of a
building. This definition includes parking garages and deck parking.
   PASSIVE RECREATION.  Recreational activities that generally do not require a
developed site. This may include activities such as hiking, horseback riding,
and picnicking.
   PEAK RATE OF DISCHARGE. A stormwater modeling term that describes the
highest volume over time of runoff from a storm event.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.  A financial deposit to ensure that all improvements,
facilities, or work required will be completed in conformance with the approved
plan.
   PERMANENT BUILDING. A building that has solid walls, a roof, doors, windows,
and a permanent foundation.
   PERSON.  
      (1)   For the purposes of enforcing this ZDO in accordance with
Chapter 169: Enforcement, PERSON includes any individual, corporation,
government agency, government official, business trust, partnership, two  or
more persons having a joint interest, or any other legal entity. Persons
subject to the remedies and penalties established in
Chapter 169: Enforcement, for violating this ZDO shall include: an architect,
engineer, builder, contractor, developer, agency, or any other person who
participates in, assists, directs, creates, causes, or maintains a condition
that results in or constitutes a violation of this ZDO; or an owner, any tenant
or occupant, or any other person, who has control over, or responsibility for,
the use or development of the land on which the violation occurs.
      (2)   For all other purposes, PERSON means any individual, corporation,
government agency, business trust, partnership, two or more persons having a
joint interest, or any other legal entity.
   PIER. A raised walkway that protrudes into a navigable waterway for
recreational purposes such as fishing or sunbathing.
   PIER, PRIVATE. A pier under private ownership not intended for use by
members of the general public.
   PIER, PUBLIC.     A pier, under public or private ownership, made available
for use by members of the general public.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Development approval issued by the City Council in
accordance with §
162.03-02, Planned Development.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. Land that is planned and developed as an
integral unit in accordance with a master plan and flexible development
standards that illustrate and address land uses, circulation, utilities,
parking, setbacks, housing densities, land coverage, landscaping and buffers,
open space, and similar features of the project. (See §
163.04, Planned Development District)
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Folly Beach, as
established by this ZDO.
   PLANTING STRIP. Areas intended for the placement of vegetation within the
interior of vehicular use areas or along street right-of-way edges, typically
between the back of the curb and the inside edge of the sidewalk.
   POOL HALL. A retail facility where food and alcoholic beverages are served
that features billiards.
   PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT. See SUBDIVISION PLAT, PRELIMINARY.
   PREMATURE DEVELOPMENT. Urban-type development that is proposed to be located
in rural, low-density areas that are not served or that are underserved by
public facilities and services.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or principal use on a lot.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A building and related facilities owned or operated by a
corporation, association, or group of individuals established for fraternal,
social, educational, recreational or cultural enrichment of its members and not
primarily for profit, and whose members meet certain prescribed qualifications
for membership and pay dues.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. For the purposes of §
162.04, Development Agreements, major capital improvements, including, but not
limited to, transportation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable
water, educational, parks and recreational, and health systems and facilities.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume responsibility
for maintenance and operation, or which may effect an improvement for which
local government responsibility is established.
   PUBLIC PARK/RECREATIONAL FACILITY. See PARK, PUBLIC.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. See DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   "R" TYPE INTERSECTION. An intersection formed by three roads that is similar
in shape to the letter 'r' such that two of the roads meet and form an angle
greater than 90 degrees, and the third intersection is less than 90 degrees.
   REGISTER OF MESNE CONVEYANCE. The duly designated register of titles, deeds,
and other recorded information for Charleston County, South Carolina.
   RELIGIOUS OR CIVIC INSTITUTION. A structure or place in which worship,
ceremonies, rituals, civic activities, and education are held, together with
its accessory buildings and uses (including buildings used for educational and
recreational activities), operated, maintained, and controlled under the
direction of a religious group. Religious institutions include churches,
mosques, synagogues, and temples. Accessory uses may include school facilities,
parking, caretaker's housing, dining facilities, recreational facilities,
pastor's housing, and group living facilities.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT OVER NONRESIDENTIAL USE.  A use type that features one or
more residential dwelling units located within the same principal building with
ground-floor nonresidential uses (typically consisting of retail).
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where provision is made on the premises for the
selling, dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments, or beverages to persons
seated inside or outside.
   RETAIL USE, TYPE I. Commercial enterprises of up to 2,500 square feet in
size or smaller that provide goods or services directly to the consumer, where
such goods are available for immediate purchase and removal from the premises
by the purchaser. Generally, such uses are intended to serve the general area
or neighborhood in which they are located. Examples of Type I retail uses
include financial institutions; laundry and dry-cleaning drop-off
establishments; photographic and artist studios; mailing or packing services;
retail bakeries; hair, tanning, and nail salons; personal care services;
massage therapy and day spas; dance or music classes; stores selling books,
clothing, and dry goods; taxidermists; income tax return preparers; repair of
TVs, bicycles, clocks, watches, shoes, guns, canvas products, appliances and
office equipment; tailoring and shoe repair; and locksmith. Any Type I retail
use exceeding 2,500 square feet in size is classified as a Type II retail use.
   RETAIL USE, TYPE II. Commercial enterprises that provide goods or services
directly to the consumer, where such goods are available for immediate purchase
and removal from the premises by the purchaser.  Generally, such uses are
located near neighborhood edges and along major streets, and intended to serve
groups of neighborhoods. Examples of Type II retail uses include stores
selling, leasing, or renting consumer, home and business goods, whether new or
used, including alcohol for off-site consumption, art, art supplies, electronic
equipment, fabric, furniture, flowers, groceries and food sales, household
products, jewelry, recorded music, pets, pet food, pharmaceuticals, plants,
printer material, stationary, and videos; photocopy and blueprint services;
psychics and mediums; funeral homes and mortuaries. Any Type I retail use
exceeding 2,500 square feet in size is classified as a Type II retail use.
   RETAIL USE, TYPE III. Commercial enterprises that provide goods or services
directly to the consumer located along major thoroughfares and in primarily
nonresidential areas. These types of retail uses generally provide a range of
goods and services that are regional in scale, and have the highest square
footage and intensities of the retail use types, are auto-oriented, and often
include some form of outdoor storage or display. Examples include shopping
centers with more than three tenants; home improvement, hardware, and garden
supply stores; building material sales; rental equipment yards; and machinery
sales.
   RETAIL WITH GASOLINE SALES. Commercial enterprises comprised of a 24-hour or
convenience-type retail facility with on-site retail gasoline sales.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The land dedicated, deeded, used, or to be used for a street,
road, alley, pedestrian way, crosswalk, bikeway, drainage facility, or other
public uses, wherein the owner gives up rights to the land so long as it is
being or will be used for the intended purpose. RIGHT-OF-WAY also is a land
measurement term, meaning the distance between lot property lines which
generally contain not only the street pavement, but also the sidewalk, grass
area, and underground or aboveground utilities.
   RIPARIAN AREAS. Areas inundated by water on a regular, semi-regular, or
intermittent basis as well as lands immediately adjacent to these areas.
   ROOF, GABLE. A roof sloping downward in two parts at on angle from a central
ridge, so as to leave a gable at each end.
   ROOF, HIP. A roof with sloping ends and sides that meet at an inclined
projecting angle.
   ROOF, MANSARD.  A four-sided roof having a double slope on each of the four
sides, with the lower slope much steeper than the upper.
   ROOF, MONOPITCH. A roof with a single pitch (also referred to as a SHED
ROOF).
   ROOF, PITCHED.  A shed, gabled, or hipped roof having a slope or pitch of at
least one-foot rise for each four feet of horizontal distance in the direction
of the slope or pitch of the roof.
   ROOF LINE. The highest point of a flat roof and mansard roof and the lowest
point of a pitched roof excluding any cupolas, chimneys or other minor
projection.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof for providing lodging, but
not meals, to not more than five guests where rent is paid to the owner or
proprietor.
   SATELLITE ANTENNA DISH. A round or parabolic antenna and its supporting
structure for the purposes of sending and/or receiving radio or electromagnetic
signals.
   SCHOOL. A public or private school offering general, technical, or
alternative instruction at the pre-school, elementary, middle, and/or secondary
school levels which operates in buildings or on premises of any tract size
leased or owned by the educational institution for administrative purposes,
classrooms, vocational training (including that of an industrial nature for
instructional purposes only), laboratories, auditoriums, libraries, cafeterias,
after school care, athletic facilities, dormitories, and other facilities which
further the education mission of the institution. Public schools are open for
enrollment to members of the general public. Private schools are not open to
members of the general public, and typically require payment of tuition.
   SELF- STORAGE. A building divided into sections for use for storage of
items, either temporary or long-term, and not to be used for any other purpose
(such as small offices, garages, etc.).
   SETBACK.  The shortest horizontal distance from the property line or right-
of-way to the nearest point (leading edge) of the structure or its supporting
member whichever is nearest to the property line or right-of-way.
   SEVERE PRUNING. The pruning, cutting, or otherwise damaging of the natural
form of a tree or shrub, whether existing or planted, such that a significant
or noticeable portion of the crown system is removed (i.e., 25% of the crown
removed from a tree, or the continued cutting/trimming of trees previously
pruned illegally, or pruning of trees that must grow naturally to meet the
landscaping requirements), or if more than one-third of the overall
circumference of a tree is exposed by pruning cuts.
   SHOEBOX STYLE LIGHTING FIXTURE. An exterior lighting device in the shape of
a box that is typically mounted on a pole and constructed to direct
illumination to a constrained area directly beneath the lighting fixture.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A building or group of buildings, either freestanding or
connected, under unified or multiple ownership, that contains three or more
tenants engaged primarily in the provision of retail goods and services, along
with common parking, pedestrian circulation, and shared ingress and egress.
   SHRUB. A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems
emerging from the ground, or small branches near the ground. Shrubs may be
deciduous or evergreen.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE.  The triangular area computed based on the
visibility at an intersection, within which no sign may interfere with
visibility (assuming eye level at three-and-one-half feet to six feet from a
distance of 15 feet from the edge of the pavement).
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting two
points located on intersecting right-of-way lines (or a right-of-way line and
the curb or a driveway).
   SIGN. Any object, device, display, structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors that is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract
attention to an object, person, business, product, service, event or location
by any means, including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures,
colors, illumination, or projected images. The following are not considered
SIGNS: the flag or emblem of any nation, organization of nations, state, city,
religious, fraternal (i.e., clubs or associations), civic or other public or
semipublic body; merchandise and pictures or models of products or services
incorporated in a window display; works of art which in no way identify a
product; buildings constructed to generally resemble a product; and wraps,
magnets, decals, and other signage on vehicles which are parked in compliance
with Section
72.10 Prohibited Activities.
   SIGN, COMMERCIAL. Any signs providing commercial or contact information of
any sort including, but not limited to, business name, website or domain name,
email address, physical address other than the property itself, or telephone
number.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign used to guide vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic
by using such words as "entrance," "exit," "parking," "one-way," or similar
directional instructions, but not including any advertising message except
logos.
   SIGN, DIRECTORY. A ground or building sign that lists tenants or occupants
of a building or development project, with unit numbers, arrows, or other
directional information.
   SIGN, FLASHING OR ANIMATED. Any sign, which, by method or manner of
illumination, flashes on or off, winks, or blinks with varying light intensity,
shows motion or animation, or creates the illusion of motion.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A self-supporting sign resting on, or supported by means
of poles, standards, or any other type of base on the ground.
   SIGN, NONCOMMERCIAL. Any sign that does not: solicit business; advertise
products or services, including home occupations, non-profits, or donation or
tip-based enterprises; provide business or commercial contact information of
any sort; explicitly or implicitly indicate that a commercial enterprise is
being conducted on the property; or explicitly or implicitly indicate that the
property is available for rent, including, but not limited to, a business name,
real estate company or agency name, rental agency name, including on-line
rental websites, website or domain name, email address, physical address other
than the property itself, or telephone number. Examples of NON-COMMERCIAL SIGNS
include the resident's family names; the resident's address; street numbers;
school or sports logos or names; spiritual, inspirational, social, or political
statements; and house names that do not provide contact information or imply
availability as a rental property.
   SIGN, PROJECTING.  Any sign other than a wall sign that is attached to and
projects from the wall or face of a structure more than 24 inches.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign advertising real property for sale or lease.
   SIGN, ROOF.  A sign that is placed above or supported on the top of a
building.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY.  A sign or advertising display designed to be displayed for
a short period of time (30 consecutive days, maximum; six months between
occurrences). Included in this category are banners and retailers' signs
temporarily displayed for the purpose of informing the public of a sale or
"special" offer.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign mounted parallel to or painted on a building facade or
other vertical building surface that does not project more than 24 inches from
the wall surface.
   SIGN HEIGHT.  The vertical distance as measured at the highest point of the
sign to the elevation of the principal grade of the road or street to which the
sign is oriented.
   SIGN PERMIT. A permit issued by the Building Official or the Design Review
Board in accordance with §
162.03-11, Sign Permit.
   SIGN SUPPORT STRUCTURE.  For freestanding signs, the poles or bracing to
which the sign is attached or mounted.
   SIGNIFICANT VEGETATION.  Existing healthy self-supporting vegetation on a
parcel or site which is composed of canopy trees with a diameter of ten inches
or greater and understory trees with a trunk caliper of four inches or greater.
SIGNIFICANT VEGETATION does not include vines, non-woody vegetation, damaged,
diseased, or nuisance trees.
   SITE LANDSCAPING. Required vegetative material consisting of trees and
shrubs that are placed on a development site to soften built edges and provide
transitions.
   SITE PLAN. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator or the Design Review
Board in accordance with §
162.03-06, Site Plan.
   SOUTH CAROLINA CODE OF LAWS. The official code of laws for South Carolina
adopted by the South Carolina Legislature.
   SOUTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (SCDES). A division in
the State of South Carolina responsible for protecting environmental health
including permitting related to wastewater management and regulation of coastal
areas such as marshes, rivers, dunes, and beaches.
   SOUTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH (SCDPH). A division in the State
of South Carolina responsible for protecting public health.
   SOUTH CAROLINA FORESTRY COMMISSION.  The state agency charged with forest
management and related activities.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with §
162.03-03, Special Exception Permit.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STATE DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION. As referenced in
this ZDO, the State Department of Highways and Transportation, an organization
charged with state transportation planning.
   STORMWATER. The direct runoff response of a watershed to rainfall including
the surface and subsurface runoff and any associated material that enters a
ditch, stream, or storm sewer during a rainfall event.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
      (1)   Quantitative control, a system of vegetative or structural
measures, or both, that control the increased volume and rate of stormwater
runoff caused by manmade changes to the land; or
      (2)   Qualitative control, a system of vegetative, structural, or other
measures that reduce or eliminate pollutants that might otherwise be carried by
stormwater runoff.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DEVICE. The system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches, and appurtenances that serve to collect and convey stormwater through
and from a given drainage area.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan or other proposal prepared in accordance
with §
166.04-05, Stormwater Management, that demonstrates how stormwater management
devices will be applied on a developed site.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. Direct response of a watershed to precipitation and
includes the surface and subsurface runoff that enters a ditch, stream, storm
sewer or other concentrated flow during and following the precipitation.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designed and intended for use by large volumes of
through traffic, receives traffic flow from collector and local streets, allows
for major movement between areas of the city and usually has heavy traffic
moving at relatively high speeds.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from local streets to the
arterial system, consists of principal entrance streets for residential,
nonresidential, and mixed-use developments and provides for major circulation
within the developments.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a
vehicular turnaround.
   STREET GRADE. See GRADE, STREET.
   STREET JOG (STREET OFFSET). An offset of two or more streets at their
intersection where the centerlines of at least two of the street segments are
not in alignment with one another on opposing sides of the intersection.
   STREET STUB. A nonpermanent dead end street intended to be extended in
conjunction with development on adjacent lots or sites.
   STREET VISTA. A distant view, especially one seen through an opening, as
between rows of buildings or trees, or at the terminus of streets. Examples of
buildings that traditionally terminate street vistas are schools, churches, and
government buildings.
   STRUCTURE. Anything that is developed with a fixed location on the ground,
or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Structures
include, but are not limited to walls, buildings, fences, signs, and swimming
pools.
   SUBDIVIDER.  
      (1)   Any person who, having an interest in land, causes it, directly or
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision or who directly or indirectly,
sells, leases or develops, or offers to sell, lease or develop, or who engages
directly or through an agent in the business of selling, leasing, developing or
offering for sale, lease or development a subdivision or any interest, lot,
parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision, and who is directly or indirectly
controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with any of the
foregoing.
      (2)   A person who undertakes the subdivision of land as defined in this
ZDO.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of sale, lease, or building development. Subdivisions include:
      (1)   All division of land involving a new street or change in existing
streets;
      (2)   Re-subdivision which would involve the further division or
relocation of lot lines of any lot or lots within a subdivision previously made
and approved or recorded according to law;
      (3)   The alteration of any streets or the establishment of any new
streets within any subdivision previously made and approved or recorded
according to law; and
      (4)   Combinations of lots of record.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT, FINAL. A type of subdivision approval reviewed and
approved, approved with conditions, or denied by the Planning Commission in
accordance with §
162.03-07(D)(9), Final Subdivision Plat.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT, MINOR. A type of subdivision approval reviewed and
approved, approved with conditions, or denied by the Zoning Administrator in
accordance with §
162.03-07(C), Minor Subdivision Plat.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A type of subdivision approval reviewed and
approved, approved with conditions, or denied by the Planning Commission in
accordance with §
162.03-07(D), Preliminary Subdivision Plat.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any repair, reconstruction, expansion, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which exceeds 50% of the assessed value
of a structure as determined either before the expansion or improvement begins
or before the damage occurred giving rise to the repair or reconstruction.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT shall not include, however any repair or improvement
required bringing the structure into compliance with existing state or city
health, sanitary, safety, or building ordinance specifications necessary to
ensure safe habitation of the structure.
   SURFACE PARKING LOT. An area used for the off-street parking or storage of
vehicles (including ingress and egress or other areas devoted to vehicular use)
located at grade.
   SWALE.  A structural measure with a lining of grass, riprap, or other
materials which can function as a detention structure and convey stormwater
runoff without causing erosion.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY, COLLOCATION (ON EXISTING BUILDING OR TOWER). A
situation in which one or more different communication service providers place
communication antenna(s) or other communications equipment on a common antenna-
supporting structure (building, tower, or other stationary device).
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY, FREESTANDING. A structure erected on the ground
and used primarily for the support of antennas for communication purposes and
utilized by commercial, governmental, or other public or quasi-public users.
The term includes microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone
towers, alternative tower structures, and the like. The term does not include
private home use of satellite dishes and television antennas, or amateur radio
operators as licensed by the FCC.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator or the
Director of Public Safety in accordance with §
162.03-12, Temporary Use Permit.
   TEN-YEAR STORM EVENT. A stormwater modeling term that refers to the
frequency at which a particular amount of rainfall in a given duration (ten
years) is expected to return, on average.
   TOP OF THE FIRST LIVING FLOOR SURFACE. The surface area of the first floor
of habitable conditioned space, and the starting elevation used to determine
the maximum height of a structure.
   TOWNHOUSE. An attached residential unit that shares common vertical wall or
walls with other similar townhome units.
   TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS. A report analyzing anticipated roadway conditions
with and without an applicant's proposed development. The report may include an
analysis of potential mitigation measures and a calculation of fact and
contributions.
   TREE, CANOPY. A tree with a trunk that measures at least 24 inches in
circumference measured at diameter at breast height. The branching patterns of
a canopy tree are capable of creating a leafy "canopy" that extends over and
shades pedestrians.
   TREE, GRAND. A protected tree distinguished by species and size as described
in §
166.01 of the City Code of Ordinances. Grand trees are smaller than landmark
trees.
   TREE, LANDMARK. A protected tree distinguished by species and size as
described in §
166.01 of the City Code of Ordinances. Landmark trees are larger than grand
trees.
   TREE, PROTECTED. Trees of certain species and diameter than require
additional protection through this ZDO.
   TREE, UNDERSTORY (OR ORNAMENTAL TREE). A tree that has an expected height at
maturity of no greater than 30 feet.
   TREE ALTERATION PERMIT. A permit reviewed and approved, approved with
conditions, or denied by the Building Official in accordance with §
162.03-10, Tree Alteration Permit.
   TREE PROTECTION ZONE. The portion of a development site located under a tree
canopy area to be retained during the development process.
   UNIFORMITY RATIO. A measurement of the relative difference in illumination
values, at ground level, between differing exterior lighting sources on a
single parcel of land.
   UTILITY, MAJOR. Infrastructure services providing regional or community-wide
service that are owned and operated privately or by a public entity. Major
utilities typically include water towers, waste treatment plants, potable water
treatment plants, solid waste facilities, lift stations, and electrical
substations.
   UTILITY, MINOR. Infrastructure services that need to be located in or near
the neighborhood or use type where the service is provided. Examples of minor
utilities include storm water retention and detention facilities, telephone
exchanges, and park-and-ride facilities.
   VACATION RENTAL. A residential unit rented for 29 days or less that
typically is utilized by tourists.
   VARIANCE.  
      (1)   There are two types of variances in this ZDO. A variance from
subdivision standards which requires a variance permit is intended to address
requests to deviate from the standards in
Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards, as well as variance requests from the lot
dimension requirements in
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards as part of the subdivision establishment
process. (See §
162.03-07, Subdivision)
      (2)   A variance from zoning provisions is intended to address all other
variance application requests. Its purpose is to allow certain deviations from
the standards of this ZDO (such as height, yard setback, lot coverage, parking,
landscaping, and signage standards), when the landowner demonstrates that,
owing to special circumstances or conditions beyond the landowner's control
(such as exceptional topographical conditions, narrowness, shallowness, or the
shape of a specific parcel of land), the literal application of the dimensional
standards would result in undue and unique hardship to the landowner and the
deviation would not be contrary to the public interest.
   VARIANCE PERMIT, SUBDIVISION. A permit issued by the Planning Commission in
accordance with §
162.03-04, Variance Permits.
   VARIANCE PERMIT, ZONING.  A permit issued by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with §
162.03-04, Variance Permits.
   VEHICULAR USE AREA. The portion of a lot set aside for vehicle maneuvering,
including parking and loading.
   VIOLATION. An act or omission in violation of the requirements of this ZDO.
   WAIVER OF TIME LIMIT. Authorization to submit a revised application for a
development permit subject to a public hearing that has been denied within the
previous 12 months.
   WALL PACK. An exterior lighting device that is flush-mounted on a vertical
wall surface.
   WILDLIFE HABITAT. The natural dwelling place and space, including food,
water, and shelter, of any number of fauna.
   ZDO. See ZONING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person responsible for administering this ZDO, or
a designee.
   ZONING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE (ZDO).  
Chapters 160 through
169 of this Code of Ordinances, the officially adopted Zoning and Land
Development Ordinance of the City of Folly Beach, South Carolina.
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in accordance
with §
162.03-13, Zoning Permit.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18; Am. Ord. 11-18,
passed 11-13-18; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 12-4-18; Am. Ord. 05-19, passed 4-9-19;
Am. Ord. 28-19, passed 9-10-19; Am. Ord. 11-21, passed 5-11-21; Am. Ord. 039-
21, passed 5-10-22; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25; Am. Ord. 029-24, passed 3-
11-25)
CHAPTER 162: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
162.01   Administration and decision-making bodies
      
162.01-01   Summary of administration article and review roles
      
162.01-02   City Council powers and duties
      
162.01-03   Planning Commission powers and duties
      
162.01-04   Board of Zoning Appeals powers and duties
      
162.01-05   Design Review Board powers and duties
      
162.01-06   Development Review Committee powers and duties
      
162.01-07   City staff
   
162.02   Common review procedures
      
162.02-01   Authority to file applications
      
162.02-02   Application contents, submission schedule and fees
      
162.02-03   Pre-application conference
      
162.02-04   Neighborhood meetings
      
162.02-05   Application submission
      
162.02-06   Determination of sufficiency
      
162.02-07   Preparation of staff report
      
162.02-08   Scheduling public hearings
      
162.02-09   Public notification
      
162.02-10   Withdrawal of application
      
162.02-11   Examination and copying of application/other documents
      
162.02-12   Conditions of approval
      
162.02-13   Lapse of approval
      
162.02-14   Waiver of time limit for disapproved applications
      
162.02-15   Simultaneous processing of applications
      
162.02-16   Notification of decision
      
162.02-17   Public hearing procedures
      
162.02-18   Zoning Administrator or city official review procedures
   
162.03   Specific standards and other requirements for applications for
development approval
      
162.03-01   Amendments to text and official zoning map
      
162.03-02   Planned development
      
162.03-03   Special exception permit
      
162.03-04   Variance permits
      
162.03-05   Administrative adjustments
      
162.03-06   Site plan
      
162.03-07   Subdivision
      
162.03-08   Building permit
      
162.03-09   Grading permit
      
162.03-10   Tree alteration permit
      
162.03-11   Sign permit
      
162.03-12   Temporary use permit
      
162.03-13   Zoning permit
      
162.03-14   Interpretation
      
162.03-15   Appeals
      
162.03-16   Beneficial use determination
   
162.04   Development agreements
§ 162.01 ADMINISTRATIVE AND DECISION-MAKING BODIES.
   § 162.01-01 Summary of Administration Article and Review Roles.
   (A)   Review bodies and city staff. The following bodies and city staff have
powers and responsibilities in administering and reviewing applications for
permit approval under this ZDO:
      (1)   City Council;
      (2)   Planning Commission;
      (3)   Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA);
      (4)   Design Review Board (DRB);
      (5)   Development Review Committee (DRC);
      (6)   City Staff, including:
         (a)   Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   Building Official;
         (c)   Director of Public Works;
         (d)   Director of Public Safety;
         (e)   City Attorney; and
         (f)   Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Summary table of permits and review bodies and city staff.  
Table 162.01: Permit Review Procedures, summarizes the review bodies and city
staff that have specific permit review roles under this ZDO, and their
responsibilities.
Table 162.01: PERMIT REVIEW PROCEDURES
R= Review and Advise   D = Decision   A = Appeal      <> = Public Hearing
        Decision-Making Body
                               Director
                               of                                             Board
                               Public   Development Design                    of
PROCESS Zoning        Building Works/   Review      Review Planning   City    Zoning  Hearing
        Administrator Official Director Committee   Board  Commission Council Appeals Officer
                               of       (DRC)       (DRB)                     (BZA)
                               Public                                         (5)
                               Safety
Table 162.01: PERMIT REVIEW PROCEDURES
R= Review and Advise   D = Decision   A = Appeal      <> = Public Hearing
               Decision-Making Body
                                      Director
                                      of                                             Board
                                      Public   Development Design                    of
PROCESS        Zoning        Building Works/   Review      Review Planning   City    Zoning  Hearing
               Administrator Official Director Committee   Board  Commission Council Appeals Officer
                                      of       (DRC)       (DRB)                     (BZA)
                                      Public                                         (5)
                                      Safety
Amendments to
text and                                       R                  <R>        <D>
official
zoning map
Planned                                        R                  <R>        <D>
development
Special
exception      R                                                                     <D>
permit
Variance
permit         R                                                  <D>
(subdivision)
Variance
permit         R                                                                     <D>
(zoning)
Administrative D                                                                     <A>
adjustment
Site plan (1)  D                               R           D                         <A>
Minor
subdivision    D             R                 R                                     <A>
plat
Preliminary
subdivision                                    R                  <D>
plat
Final
subdivision                                    R                  <D>
plat
Building       R             D                                                       <A>
permit
Grading permit R                      D                                              <A>
(2)
Tree
alternation    R             D                                                       <A>
permit
Sign permit    R             D                             D                         <A>
(3)
Temporary use  D                      D                                              <A>
permit (4)
Notes:
(1) The Zoning Administrator shall review and decide site plan applications for single- and two-
family homes. The DRB shall review and decide site plan applications for all other uses.
(2) The Director of Public Works shall review and decide applications for grading permits.
(3) The Building Official shall review and decide on applications for sign permits in the
residential districts. The DRB shall review and decide on applications for sign permits in the
nonresidential districts.
(4) The Director of Public Safety shall review and decide applications for special events; the
Zoning Administrator shall review and decide all other temporary use permit applications.
(5) All appeals from the Board of Zoning Appeals are made to a court of law.
 
Table 162.01: PERMIT REVIEW PROCEDURES
R= Review and Advise   D = Decision   A = Appeal      <> = Public Hearing
        Decision-Making Body
                               Director
                               of                                             Board
                               Public   Development Design                    of
PROCESS Zoning        Building Works/   Review      Review Planning   City    Zoning  Hearing
        Administrator Official Director Committee   Board  Commission Council Appeals Officer
                               of       (DRC)       (DRB)                     (BZA)
                               Public                                         (5)
                               Safety
Table 162.01: PERMIT REVIEW PROCEDURES
R= Review and Advise   D = Decision   A = Appeal      <> = Public Hearing
               Decision-Making Body
                                      Director
                                      of                                             Board
                                      Public   Development Design                    of
PROCESS        Zoning        Building Works/   Review      Review Planning   City    Zoning  Hearing
               Administrator Official Director Committee   Board  Commission Council Appeals Officer
                                      of       (DRC)       (DRB)                     (BZA)
                                      Public                                         (5)
                                      Safety
Zoning permit  D                                                                     <A>
Interpretation D             R        R                                              <A>
All other                                                                            <D>
appeals
Beneficial use R                                                             <D>             <R>
determination
Development                                                       <R>        <D>
agreement
Notes:
(1) The Zoning Administrator shall review and decide site plan applications for single- and two-
family homes. The DRB shall review and decide site plan applications for all other uses.
(2) The Director of Public Works shall review and decide applications for grading permits.
(3) The Building Official shall review and decide on applications for sign permits in the
residential districts. The DRB shall review and decide on applications for sign permits in the
nonresidential districts.
(4) The Director of Public Safety shall review and decide applications for special events; the
Zoning Administrator shall review and decide all other temporary use permit applications.
(5) All appeals from the Board of Zoning Appeals are made to a court of law.
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.01-02 City Council powers and duties.
   In order to exercise the authority granted the City Council by state law,
the City Council shall have the following powers and duties under this ZDO:
   (A)   Review and decide applications. To review and decide applications for
the following:
      (1)   Applications to amend the text of this ZDO (Text Amendment) (See §
162.03-01);
      (2)   Applications to amend the official zoning map (See §
162.03-01);
      (3)   Applications to amend the official zoning map to establish the
Planned Development District and associated Planned Development Master Plan
(See §
162.03-02);
      (4)   Applications for beneficial use determinations (See §
162.03-16); and
      (5)   Applications for development agreements (See §
162.04).
   (B)   Adopt schedule of fees. To approve by resolution a schedule of fees
governing applications for permits and other permit approvals reviewed under
this ZDO.
   (C)   Other actions. To take any other action not delegated to the Planning
Commission, BZA, DRB, Zoning Administrator, or other city staff member, as the
City Council may deem desirable and necessary to implement the provisions of
this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.01-03 Planning Commission Powers and Duties.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties under
this ZDO:
   (A)   Review and decide applications. To review and decide applications for
the following:
      (1)   Applications for preliminary subdivision plats (See §
162.03-07(D));
      (2)   Applications for final subdivision plats (See §
162.03-07(D)); and
      (3)   Applications for subdivision variance permits (See §
162.03-04).
   (B)   Review and recommend. To review and provide a recommendation to the
City Council on the following:
      (1)   Applications to amend the text of this ZDO (See §
162.03-01);
      (2)   Applications to amend the official zoning map (See §
162.03-01);
      (3)   Applications to amend the official zoning map to establish the
Planned Development District and associated Planned Development Master Plan
(See §
162.03-02.); and
      (4)   Applications for development agreements (See §
162.04).
   (C)   Comprehensive and capital improvements plans. To prepare and update
the city's Comprehensive Plan and Capital Improvements Plan.
   (D)   Other powers and duties. To carry out any other powers and duties
delegated to it by City Council, consistent with state law.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.01-04 Board of Zoning Appeals Powers and Duties.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) shall have the following powers and duties
under this ZDO:
   (A)   Review and decide applications. To review and decide applications for
the following:
      (1)   Applications for special exception permits (See §
162.03-03);
      (2)   Applications for variance permits for zoning (See §
162.03-04); and
      (3)   Appeals of city staff decisions (See § 162.03-15), including
decision on:
         (a)   Administrative adjustments;
         (b)   Site plans;
         (c)   Minor subdivision plats;
         (d)   Building permits;
         (e)   Grading permits;
         (f)   Tree alteration permits;
         (g)   Residential sign permits;
         (h)   Temporary use permits;
         (i)   Zoning permits; and
         (j)   Interpretations.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.01-05 Design Review Board Powers and Duties.
   The Design Review Board (DRB) shall have the power to review and decide
applications for the following:
   (A)   Site plans for multi-family and nonresidential uses (See §
162.03-06.); and
   (B)   Sign permits on lots within nonresidential zoning districts (See §
162.03-11).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.01-06 Development Review Committee Powers and Duties.
   The Development Review Committee (DRC) shall have the power to review and
provide recommendations on the following applications:
   (A)   Amendments to the text of this ZDO (See §
162.03-01);
   (B)   Amendments the official zoning map (See §
162.03-01);
   (C)   Site plans (See §
162.03-06);
   (D)   Minor subdivision plats (See §
162.03-07(C));
   (E)   Preliminary subdivision plats (See §
162.03-07(D)); and
   (F)   Final subdivision plats (See Section
162.03-07(D)).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.01-07 City Staff
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. The city shall designate a Zoning Administrator
who shall administer and enforce all or portions of the provisions in this ZDO.
The Zoning Administrator shall have the following powers and duties under this
ZDO:
      (1)   Review and decide. The Zoning Administrator shall review and decide
applications for:
         (a)   Administrative adjustments (See §
162.03-05);
         (b)   Site plans for single- and two-family dwellings (See §
162.03-06);
         (c)   Minor subdivision plats (See §
162.03-07(C));
         (d)   All temporary use permits except applications for special events
decided by the Director of Public Safety (See §
162.03-12); and
         (e)   Zoning permits (See §
162.03-13).
      (2)   Review and recommend. To review and make recommendations on
applications for:
         (a)   Special exception permits (See §
162.03-03);
         (b)   Variance permits for subdivisions (See §
162.03-04);
         (c)   Variance permits for zoning (See §
162.03-04);
         (d)   Building permits (See §
162.03-08);
         (e)   Tree alteration permits (See §
162.03-10);
         (f)   Sign permits (See §
162.03-11);
         (g)   Grading permits (See §
162.03-09); and
         (h)   Beneficial use determinations (See §
162.03-16).
      (3)   Other actions. The Zoning Administrator shall carry out any other
powers and duties delegated by City Council, consistent with state law,
including:
         (a)   Rendering interpretations of this ZDO (See §
162.03-14);
         (b)   Establishing application requirements and schedules for review
of applications and appeals;
         (c)   Enforcing the provisions of this ZDO in accordance with
Chapter 169: Enforcement;
         (d)   Maintaining the official zoning map and other such records and
official materials as relate to the adoption, amendment, enforcement or
administration of this ZDO; and
         (e)   Providing expertise and technical assistance to the City
Council, Planning Commission, BZA, and DRB upon request.
   (B)   Building Official. In addition to the authority and duties that may be
conferred on the Building Official by general law, the Building Official shall
have the following powers and duties under this ZDO:
      (1)   To review and decide applications for building permits (See §
162.03-08), tree alteration permits (See §
162.03-10), and sign permits on lots within residential zoning districts (See §
162.03-11); and
      (2)   To review and make recommendations on applications for minor
subdivision plats (See §
162.03-07(C)), and interpretations (See §
162.03-14).
   (C)   Director of Public Works. In addition to the authority and duties that
may be conferred on the Director of Public Works by general law, the Director
of Public Works shall have the following powers and duties under this ZDO:
      (1)   To review and decide on applications for grading permits (See §
162.03-09); and
      (2)   To review and make recommendations on certain applications for
interpretations (See §
162.03-14).
   (D)   Director of Public Safety. In addition to the authority and duties
that may be conferred on the Director of Public Safety by general law, the
Director of Public Safety shall review and decide on applications for temporary
use permits associated with a special event (See §
162.03-12).
   (E)   City Attorney. In addition to the authority and duties that may be
conferred upon the City Attorney by general law and the Code of Ordinances, the
City Attorney shall counsel the City Council, Planning Commission, BZA, DRB,
Zoning Administrator, and city departments in regard to the legal issues that
may arise in the review of applications for permits and permit approval and the
general implementation of this ZDO.
   (F)   Hearing Officer.
      (1)   Creation and appointment. The City Council shall confirm one or
more Hearing Officers to hear and consider such matters as may be required to
be conducted by a Hearing Officer under any provision of this ZDO, or as may be
determined to be appropriate. The Hearing Officer(s) shall serve at the
pleasure of the City Council for such period as is determined by the City
Council. The Hearing Officer(s) shall be compensated at a rate to be determined
by the City Council. Whoever shall accept an appointment as a Hearing Officer
shall, for a period of one year from the date of termination as holder of such
position, not act as agent or attorney in any proceeding, application, or any
matter before any decision-making or advisory body of the city in any matter
involving land that was the subject of a proceeding which was pending during
the time served as a Hearing Officer.
      (2)   Minimum qualifications. A Hearing Officer shall have the following
minimum qualifications:
         (a)   Demonstrated knowledge of administrative, zoning, and land use
law and practice; and
         (b)   Hold no appointive or elective public office or position in the
city during the period of appointment.
      (3)   Powers and duties. A Hearing Officer shall have the following
duties:
         (a)   To establish the record and make recommendations to the City
Council on beneficial use determinations (See §
162.03-16);
         (b)   To issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and
production of documents, and to administer oaths to witnesses appearing at
hearings; and
         (c)   To perform other such tasks as the City Council may assign.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 162.02 COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The general provisions of this section shall apply to all applications for
development approval and permit requests under this ZDO, unless otherwise
stated.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-01 Authority to File Applications.
   (A)   General. Applications submitted under this ZDO pursuant to §
162.02-05, Application Submission, shall be submitted by the land owner, or any
other person having a recognized interest in the land upon which the
development is proposed, or their authorized agent.
   (B)   Applicant not the owner. If the applicant is not the owner of the
land, a letter signed by the owner consenting to the submission of the
application shall be submitted.
   (C)   Applicant is not the sole owner. If the applicant is not the sole
owner of the land, a letter signed by all other owners or an entity
representing the owners consenting to or joining in the application shall be
submitted.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-02 Application Contents, Submission Schedule and Fees.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish the requirements for application
contents, forms, and the submission and review schedule (including time frames
for review) for development (See §
162.02-05, Application Submission). These requirements may be amended and
updated from time to time.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish application fees and may amend and
update those fees from time to time. The fee amount shall cover all costs
associated with processing the application and conducting related inspections.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-03 Pre-Application Conference.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a pre-application conference is to familiarize
the applicant and the city staff with the applicable provisions of this ZDO
required to permit the proposed development, to inform the applicant about the
preparation of the application, and the application process.
   (B)   Pre-application conference mandatory.  A pre-application conference is
mandatory prior to submission of any application for an amendment to the
official zoning map, §
162.03-01; a planned development, §
162.03-02; a site plan decided by the DRB, §
162.03-06; and a preliminary subdivision plat, §
162.03-07(D).
   (C)   Pre-application conference optional. A pre-application conference is
optional prior to submission of any other application for permit approval.
   (D)   Pre-application conference procedure.
      (1)   Any applicant subject to a mandatory pre-application conference or
any other applicant requesting a pre-application conference shall request it in
writing from the Zoning Administrator. Along with the request, the applicant
shall provide to the Zoning Administrator a description of the character,
location, magnitude, and scale of the proposed development, and any other
appropriate supporting information and documents, such as a sketch or concept
plan (if appropriate).
      (2)   Following receipt of all required information, the Zoning
Administrator shall schedule a pre-application conference after receipt of the
request and the appropriate submission materials. The Zoning Administrator
shall review the materials and forward them to the DRC.
      (3)   At the pre-application conference, the applicant and the DRC shall
discuss the proposed development, and based upon the information provided by
the applicant, identify in general what provisions apply to the proposed
development. The Zoning Administrator shall generally inform the applicant
regarding necessary application materials and provide estimates of the timing
of review.
   (E)   Effect. The pre-application conference is intended as one means of
facilitating review of permit applications. Discussions held in accordance with
this section are not binding on the city. Processing times for review of
development applications do not begin until a formal application is submitted
and determined to be complete.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-04 Neighborhood Meetings.
   (A)   General. The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is to educate
occupants and owners of nearby properties about the proposed development and
application, receive comments, address concerns about the development proposal,
and resolve conflicts and outstanding issues, where possible.
   (B)   Favored practice. Neighborhood meetings are encouraged as
opportunities for informal communication between owners and occupants of nearby
properties, applicants, and other persons who may be affected by development
proposals. Neighborhood meetings are not required for any applications under
this ZDO. Neighborhood meetings are strongly encouraged prior to submission of
all applications requiring a public hearing. The City Council or the
chairperson of the advisory or decision-making body reviewing an application
may direct a neighborhood meeting be conducted either prior to or during a
hearing on an application if it is determined the application could potentially
have land use, appearance, traffic or other public facility impacts on
neighboring properties.
   (C)   Procedure. If a neighborhood meeting is conducted, it should generally
comply with the following procedures.
      (1)   Time and place. The neighborhood meeting should be held at a place
that is generally accessible to neighbors that reside in close proximity to the
land subject to the application.
      (2)   Notification. The applicant should provide notification of the
neighborhood meeting a minimum of five business days in advance of the meeting
by mail, to all owners and occupants within 150 feet of the land subject to the
application, to any neighborhood organization that represents citizens within
that area and the review board considering the application. The notification
shall state the time and place of the meeting. Proof of notification shall be
provided to the city.
      (3)   Conduct of meetings. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible
for moderating the neighborhood meeting. At the neighborhood meeting, the
applicant should explain the development proposal and application, answer any
questions, and respond to concerns neighbors have about the application and
propose ways to resolve conflicts.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-05 Application Submission.
   All applications for permits or development approval established by this ZDO
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator pursuant to any established
application submittal schedule, and in the form established by this ZDO, along
with the fee established pursuant to §
162.02-02. The Zoning Administrator shall conduct the staff review on the
applications.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-06 Determination of Sufficiency.
   (A)   Sufficiency review. Upon receipt of an application for development
approval, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if the application is
complete and includes information in sufficient detail to evaluate the
application to determine whether it complies with the appropriate substantive
requirements of this ZDO.
   (B)   Application insufficient.
      (1)   If the application is determined to be insufficient, the applicant
shall be notified of the known deficiencies, in writing. The applicant may
correct the deficiencies and resubmit the application for sufficiency
determination. If, upon re-submittal, the application is again determined to be
insufficient, the applicant will be notified of the deficiencies, and the
application fee shall be forfeited. Subsequent application submittals shall
require payment of a new application fee established in accordance with §
162.02-02.
      (2)   No further action shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator on the
application until the deficiencies are remedied. If the applicant fails to
respond to the identified deficiencies within 30 business days, the application
shall be considered withdrawn.
   (C)   Application sufficient.  When the application is determined
sufficient, it shall be reviewed pursuant to the procedures and standards of
this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-07 Preparation of Staff Report.
   After an application is determined sufficient, the Zoning Administrator
shall refer the application to the appropriate staff and any other review
agencies for comment, review the application, and prepare a written staff
report (when required). The staff report shall be provided to the applicant and
made available to the public within a reasonable amount of time before the
scheduled public hearing(s) on the application. Where appropriate, the staff
report shall include a recommendation that the reviewing body approve, approve
with conditions, or disapprove the application as appropriate. Conditions for
approval may also be recommended to eliminate any areas of noncompliance or to
mitigate any adverse effects of the development proposal.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-08 Scheduling Public Hearings.
   (A)   Application to be scheduled for meeting. When an application for
development approval is subject to a public hearing (See §
162.02-09(E), Required Notice and Timing), the Zoning Administrator shall
ensure that the public hearing(s) on the application is scheduled for a
regularly scheduled meeting or a meeting specially called for that purpose by
the decision-making or advisory body reviewing the application.
   (B)   Timing. The public hearing(s) on the application shall be scheduled so
there is sufficient time for a staff report to be prepared and for the public
notification requirements to be satisfied.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-09 Public Notification.
   All applications requiring a public hearing shall comply with the S.C. Code
of Laws, the provisions listed in
Table 162.02, Required Notice and Timing, and the other provisions of this
section with regard to public notification.
   (A)   Content. All notices for public hearings, unless expressly noted
otherwise, whether done by mail (written notice), publication (publishing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city), or posting shall:
      (1)   Identify the application number, and the name, address, and
telephone number of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
      (2)   Indicate the date, time, and place of the public hearing;
      (3)   Describe the land involved by street address or by tax map number
and nearest cross street;
      (4)   Identify the current zoning district designation of the land
subject to the application;
      (5)   Describe the nature, scope, and purpose of the application or
proposal;
      (6)   Describe in which department the application, the staff report and
related materials may be inspected by the public, and state that these
materials are available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (7)   Include a statement describing where interested members of the
public and adjoining property owners may submit written comments or evidence
prior to the public hearing;
      (8)   Include a statement that interested members of the public and
adjoining property owners may appear at the public hearing, be heard, and
submit evidence and written comments with respect to the application;
      (9)   Posted notice may provide a phone number by which the information
required above is available.
   (B)   Written (mailed) notice. When the provisions of this ZDO (See
Table 162.02), require that written or mailed notice be provided, the Zoning
Administrator shall be responsible for preparing and mailing the written
notice. Notice shall be mailed to:
      (1)   All property owners of the land subject to the application; and
      (2)   All property owners within 150 feet of the land subject to the
application (including property owners of land located outside the city's
corporate limits) whose address is known by reference to the latest ad valorem
tax records.
   Notice shall be deemed mailed by its deposit in the United States mail,
first class, properly addressed, postage paid. The Zoning Administrator shall
prepare an affidavit affirming that notice meeting the content requirements of
§
162.02-09(A), Content, was mailed. The affidavit shall be conclusive that
notice has been given pursuant to the terms of this section. A copy of the
mailed notice shall be maintained in the office of the Zoning Administrator for
public inspection during normal business hours. The affidavit shall be included
as an appendix to the staff report.
   (C)   Published notice.
      (1) When the provisions of this ZDO require that notice be published, the
Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for preparing the content of the
notice and publishing the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. The content and form of the published notice shall be consistent with the
requirements of the S. C. Code of Laws.
   (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare an affidavit certifying that
published notice has occurred pursuant to the requirements of this subsection.
The affidavit shall be conclusive that notice has been given pursuant to the
terms of this subsection. The affidavit shall be included as an appendix to the
staff report.
   (D)   Posted notice.
      (1)   When the provisions of this ZDO require that notice be posted on
the land subject to the application, notice shall comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Notice shall be posted on sign(s) in a form and size established
by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The signs shall be placed by the applicant on the property that
is subject to the application, along each public thoroughfare that abuts or
runs through the property, at intervals of not more than 500 feet.
         (c)   The sign(s) shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous
manner that ensures visibility from public thoroughfare(s).
      (2)   The applicant shall sign and provide to the Zoning Administrator an
affidavit stating that posted notice has been provided in accordance with the
requirements of this subsection. The affidavit shall be accompanied by a
photograph showing the posted notice on the property. The affidavit and
photograph shall be conclusive that notice has been given in accordance with
the terms of this subsection. The affidavit shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator prior to the public hearing for the subject application.
      (3)   The applicant shall ensure that the posted notice is maintained on
the property until the completion of the public hearing on the application.
      (4)   The sign(s) shall be removed by the applicant within five days
after the public hearing on the application.
   (E)   Required notice and timing. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the
S.C. Code of Laws or this ZDO, notice shall be provided as follows:
Table 162.02: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION FOR PERMIT APPROVALS
                            Notice Required
Application For Development (Days Before Hearing/Action)
Permit or Other Action      Written       Publication   Posted
                            (§           (§           (§
                            162.02-09(B)) 162.02-09(C)) 162.02-09(D))
Table 162.02: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION FOR PERMIT APPROVALS
Application For       Notice Required
Development           (Days Before Hearing/Action)
Permit or Other       Written          Publication         Posted
Action                (§              (§                 (§
                      162.02-09(B))    162.02-09(C))       162.02-09(D))
Text amendment to the                  At least 30 days
ZDO                                    prior to public
                                       hearing
Amendment to official
zoning map and        At least 15 days At least 30 days    At least 15 days
establishment of      prior to public  prior to public     prior to public
Planned Development   hearing          hearing             hearing
District
Special exception     At least 15 days At least 15 days    At least 15 days
permit and variance   prior to public  prior to public     prior to public
permit                hearing          hearing             hearing
Appeals to Board of   At least 15 days At least 15 days    At least 15 days
Zoning Appeals        prior to public  prior to public     prior to public
                      hearing          hearing             hearing
                                       At least 30 days
                                       prior to public
                      At least 30 days hearing before      At least 30 days
Land development      prior to public  Planning Commission prior to public
agreements            hearing          At least 30 days    hearing
                                       prior to public
                                       hearing before City
                                       Council
 
   (F)   Deferral of application. An applicant may request that an advisory or
decision-making body's consideration of an application at public hearing be
deferred by submitting a written request for deferral to the Zoning
Administrator.
      (1)   Administrative review.  The Zoning Administrator shall consider and
decide deferral requests if the public can be notified of the deferral within a
minimum of ten business days prior to the public hearing at which the
application is to be heard. Such notification shall also provide the date of
the re-scheduled public hearing at which the application will be considered by
the advisory or decision-making body. A request for deferral shall be approved
only for good cause.
      (2)   Review board review. If the public cannot be notified of the
deferral within a minimum of ten business days prior to the public hearing at
which the application is to be heard, the request for deferral shall be placed
on the public hearing agenda of the advisory or decision-making body on the
date the application is to be considered and acted upon by the body. The
advisory or decision-making body shall approve the request for deferral only
for good cause.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-10 Withdrawal of Application.
   (A)   Submission of application. Any request for withdrawal of an
application subject to a public hearing shall be submitted in writing to the
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Prior to notice of public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall
consider a request for withdrawal if it has been submitted prior to
notification of a public hearing pursuant to §
162.02-09, Public Notification. A request for withdrawal shall be approved only
for good cause.
   (C)   Subsequent to notice of public hearing. Once notice of a public
hearing has occurred pursuant to §
162.02-09, Public Notification, the request for withdrawal of the application
shall be placed on the public hearing agenda of the advisory or decision-making
body on the date the application is to be considered and acted upon by the
review body. The advisory or decision-making body shall approve the request for
withdrawal only for good cause.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-11 Examination and Copying of Application/Other Documents.
   Upon reasonable request and during normal business hours, any person may
examine an application, the staff report, and materials submitted in support of
or in opposition to an application in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
Copies of such materials shall be made available at a reasonable cost, except
that copyrighted materials are available for public inspection, but cannot be
copied.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-12 Conditions of Approval.
   (A)   General. Where the Zoning Administrator or a reviewing board may,
according to the express terms of this ZDO, approve a permit or development
approval with conditions, the Zoning Administrator or such board may impose
restrictions and conditions on the approval, the proposed use, and the premises
to be developed or used pursuant to such approval, as are required to ensure
compliance with the general goals and policies of this ZDO or with particular
standards of this ZDO, to prevent or minimize adverse effects from the proposed
development on surrounding lands.
   (B)   Limitations. The restrictions and conditions imposed must be related
in both type and amount to the impact that the proposed development would have
on the public and surrounding development. All conditions imposed shall be
expressly set forth in the permit approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-13 Lapse of Approval.
   Lapse of approval shall occur as provided by this ZDO for the various types
of development permits and approvals. If no provision for lapse is given by
this ZDO for a particular type of development permit or approval, and if no
lapse period is imposed as part of an approval by the decision-making entity,
lapse shall occur if development is not commenced or a subsequent permit is not
obtained within one year of the date the approval or permit was granted.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-14 Waiver of Time Limit for Disapproved Applications.
   (A)   General. Whenever any application for which a public hearing is
required is disapproved, the same type of application for all or a part of the
same land shall not be considered for a period of one year after the date of
disapproval unless a Waiver of Time Limit is approved by the decision-making
body pursuant to the requirements of this section. Only one request for Waiver
of Time Limit may be submitted by the land owner during the one-year period.
   (B)   Waiver of Time Limit.  
      (1)   Owner or authorized agent. Only the owner of land or the owner's
authorized agent may submit a request for Waiver of Time Limit.
      (2)   Initiation. A request may be initiated by the owner or the owner's
authorized agent by submitting a request for Waiver of Time Limit to the Zoning
Administrator, within 15 calendar days of mailing the notification of the
decision, along with a fee to defray the cost of processing the request.
      (3)   Preparation of staff report and scheduling for meeting. After
receipt of a request for Waiver of Time Limit, the Zoning Administrator shall
prepare a staff report on the request (which includes copies of the minutes and
vote on the application) and schedule the matter for the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the decision-making body.
   (C)   Action. At the meeting for which the request for Waiver of Time Limit
is scheduled, the decision-making body shall consider the request, the staff
report (including all relevant previous meeting minutes and vote on the
application), other relevant support materials, statements made by the owner or
the owner's authorized agent and approve or disapprove the request based on the
standards in §
162.02-14(D), Standards.
   (D)   Standards. The Waiver of Time Limit shall be considered only upon a
recommendation by city staff and a finding by two-thirds of the membership of
the decision-making body that the owner presented substantial evidence that
demonstrates:
      (1)   There is a substantial change in circumstances relevant to the
issues or facts considered during review of the application that might
reasonably affect the decision-making body's application of the relevant review
standards to the development proposed in the application; or
      (2)   New or additional information is available that was not available
at the time of the review that might reasonably affect the decision-making
body's application of the relevant review standards to the development
proposed; or
      (3)   A new application is proposed to be submitted that is materially
different from the prior application; or
      (4)   The final decision on the application was based on a material
mistake of fact.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-15 Simultaneous Processing of Applications.
   Whenever two or more forms of review and approval are required under this
ZDO, the applications for those development approvals may, at the option of the
Zoning Administrator, be processed simultaneously, so long as all applicable
state and local requirements are satisfied.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-16 Notification of Decision.
   Within a reasonable period of time after a decision on an application, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of the decision. Within a
reasonable period of time after the decision, a copy of the decision shall also
be made available to the public at the offices of the Zoning Administrator
during normal business hours.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-17 Public Hearing Procedures.
   All public hearings for applications held pursuant to this ZDO shall comply
with the following procedures.
   (A)   Conduct of public hearing.
      (1)   Burden of proof or persuasion. The burden of demonstrating that an
application complies with applicable review and approval standards of this ZDO
is on the applicant. The burden is not on the city or other parties to show
that the standards have not been met by the applicant.
      (2)   Rights of all persons. Any person may appear at a public hearing
and submit testimony, either individually or as a representative of a person or
an organization. Each person who appears at a public hearing shall be
identified, state an address, and if appearing on behalf of a person or
organization, state the name and mailing address of the person or organization
being represented.
      (3)   Exclusion of testimony. The body conducting the public hearing may
exclude testimony that it finds to be irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitious.
      (4)   Offers of testimony. In the event any testimony is excluded as
irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious, the person offering such
testimony shall have an opportunity at that hearing to offer such testimony for
the record. Such offer shall be made at the public hearing.
      (5)   Continuance of public hearing. The body conducting the public
hearing may, on its own motion or at the request of any person, continue the
public hearing to a fixed date, time and place. A continuance may be granted at
the discretion of the body conducting the public hearing only upon good cause
shown.
      (6)   Recording. All public meetings shall be tape recorded or
transcribed.
   (B)   General procedures and findings at public hearing.
      (1)   Time. Any board or commission conducting the hearing shall act in
accord with any time limits established in this ZDO or the board or
commission's own bylaws. Action shall be taken as promptly as possible in
consideration of the interests of the applicant, the citizens of the city, and
shall include a statement of a recommendation or decision of approval, approval
with conditions, or disapproval (whichever is appropriate).
      (2)   Form of decisions. The form of all decisions shall include at least
the following elements:
         (a)   A summary of the information presented before the body;
         (b)   A summary of all testimony submitted into the record;
         (c)   A statement of findings or other factors considered, whichever
is appropriate, and a statement of the basis upon which such facts were applied
with respect to the relevant review standards, if required by state law;
         (d)   A statement of a recommendation or decision of approval,
approval with conditions or disapproval (whichever is appropriate).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.02-18 Zoning Administrator or City Official Review Procedures.
   Review of all applications for development approval conducted by the Zoning
Administrator or other city official shall comply with the following
procedures.
   (A)   General review. After the application is determined sufficient (See §
162.02-06), the Zoning Administrator or other city official (as appropriate)
shall review the application and prepare a staff report if the application is
subject to a public hearing or review by another decision-making body. A copy
of the staff report shall be provided to the applicant. Preparation of a staff
report for applications not subject to a public hearing or review by another
decision-making body is at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator or other
city official.
   (B)   Approval. If the Zoning Administrator or other city official (as
appropriate) determines the application complies with the appropriate review
standards, the application shall be approved or approved with conditions.
   (C)   Fails to comply.
      (1)   Notification and opportunity to re-submit application.  If review
by the Zoning Administrator or other city official (as appropriate) reflects
that the application fails to comply with the appropriate review standards, the
applicant shall have an opportunity to re-submit a revised application. At the
applicant's request, the Zoning Administrator or other city official will
schedule a meeting with the applicant to discuss the application and the staff
report (if prepared). The application shall be considered withdrawn if a
revised application is not resubmitted within 30 business days from the date
the applicant is notified of the application's failure to comply with the
appropriate review standards.
      (2)   Review of re-submitted application. A revised and re-submitted
application shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator or other city
official (as appropriate) and approved, approved with conditions, or
disapproved, based on the appropriate review standards.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 162.03 SPECIFIC STANDARDS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATIONS FOR
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   § 162.03-01 Amendments to Text and Official Zoning Map.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a means for
amending the text of this ZDO or making an amendment to the official zoning map
(rezoning).
   (B)   Authority. The City Council may adopt an ordinance amending the text
of this ZDO or amending the official zoning map (rezoning) upon compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Initiation.
      (1)   Amendment to the text of this ZDO. An application to amend the text
of this ZDO may be initiated by the City Council, the Planning Commission, the
Zoning Administrator, an owner of land in the city, or a citizen of the city.
      (2)   Amendment to official zoning map. An application to amend the
official zoning map (rezoning) may be initiated by the City Council, the
Planning Commission, the Zoning Administrator, or by a person or entity who may
submit applications pursuant to §
162.02-01, Authority to File Applications.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   Application submittal. In addition to the application submission
requirements in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures, applicants for an amendment to the official
zoning map shall submit the following items:
         (a)   The name and address of all abutting and opposite property
owners of record within 500 feet of the subject land(s); and
         (b)   A plat of survey prepared by a registered land surveyor (a copy
of the existing tax map is sufficient when the land to be reclassified follows
established lot lines).
      (2)   Application review, notification and scheduling hearing. The
procedures and requirements for review of an application, public notification,
and scheduling the public hearing are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures. Prior to the preparation of the staff report,
city staff may make recommendations to the Zoning Administrator to include in
the staff report.
      (3)   Review and recommendation by Planning Commission. On the date of
the referral of the application from the Zoning Administrator, the Planning
Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the application pursuant to §
162.02-17, Public Hearing Procedures. At the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall consider the application, the relevant support materials, the
staff report, the testimony given at the hearing, and make a report to the City
Council recommending either to approve or disapprove the application based on
the standards in §
162.03-01(E), Text Amendment Standards, or §
162.03-01(F), Zoning Map Amendment Standards, (as appropriate). If the Planning
Commission fails to forward the report to City Council within 30 calendar days
from the date of referral, the application is deemed to have been recommended
for approval.
      (4)   Review and action by City Council. After receipt of the report from
the Planning Commission, the City Council may conduct a public hearing on the
application pursuant to §
162.02-17, Public Hearing Procedures. At the public hearing, the City Council
should consider the application, the relevant support materials, the staff
report, the report of the Planning Commission, and the testimony given at the
hearing. In its discretion, the City Council may refer the matter to the
Planning Commission for further study and recommendation on specific issues and
for a supplemental report to be submitted to the City Council within 45
calendar days. If the referral requires additional public notification, it
shall be given in accordance with §
162.02-09, Public Notification. The City Council shall either adopt an
ordinance amending the text of this ZDO or the official zoning map (whichever
is appropriate), or disapprove the application, based on the standards of §
162.03-01(E), Text Amendment Standards, or §
162.03-01(F), Zoning Map Amendment Standards.
   (E)   Text amendment standards. Amending the text of this ZDO is a matter
committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council. In determining
whether to adopt or disapprove the proposed amendment, the City Council should
consider and weigh the relevance of the following factors:
      (1)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Whether the proposed amendment is in conflict with any provision of
this ZDO, and related city regulations;
      (3)   Whether and the extent to which there are changed conditions that
require an amendment;
      (4)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment addresses a
demonstrated community need;
      (5)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment is
consistent with the purpose and intent of the zoning districts in this ZDO, or
will improve compatibility among uses and will ensure efficient development
within the city;
      (6)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would result
in a logical and orderly development pattern;
      (7)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would result
in significantly adverse impacts on the natural environment, including but not
limited to water, air, noise, storm water management, wildlife, vegetation,
wetlands, and the natural functioning of the environment;
      (8)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would result
in development that is adequately served by public facilities (roads, potable
water and sewage, schools, parks, police, and fire and emergency medical
facilities).
   (F)   Zoning map amendment standards. Amending the official zoning map is a
matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City Council. In
considering an amendment to the official zoning map, the City Council may adopt
a change for only part of the area requested or for a less intense zoning
district than requested by the applicant, or both. In determining whether to
adopt or disapprove the proposed amendment, the City Council should consider
and weigh the relevance of the following factors:
      (1)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Whether and the extent to which there are changed conditions that
require an amendment;
      (3)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment addresses a
demonstrated community need;
      (4)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment is
compatible with existing and proposed uses surrounding the subject land, and is
the appropriate zoning district for the land;
      (5)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would result
in a logical and orderly development pattern, or deviate from logical and
orderly development patterns;
      (6)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would
encourage premature development;
      (7)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would result
in undesirable strip or ribbon commercial development;
      (8)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment will result
in the creation of an inappropriately-isolated zoning district unrelated to
adjacent and surrounding zoning districts;
      (9)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment will result
in significant adverse impacts on the property values of surrounding lands;
      (10)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would
result in significantly adverse impacts on the natural environment, including
but not limited to water, air, noise, storm water management, wildlife,
vegetation, wetlands, and the natural functioning of the environment;
      (11)   Whether and the extent to which the proposed amendment would
result in development that is adequately served by public facilities (roads,
potable water and sewage, schools, parks, police, and fire and emergency
medical facilities).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-02 Planned Development.
   (A)   General. This section establishes the procedures for review of the
city's Planned Development (PD) zoning district.
   (B)   Location. A PD zoning district classification may be established on
any land that complies with all of the applicable standards of this section.
   (C)   Unified ownership or control. To ensure unified control, copy of the
title to all land that is part of a proposed PD zoning district classification
shall be provided, and all owners of the land shall sign the planned
development application to indicate their support for the application and
willingness to be bound by any conditions of approval.
   (D)   PD zoning district classification and PD Master Plan.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   General. A PD zoning district classification shall constitute an
amendment to the official zoning map. It shall be controlled by a PD Master
Plan and PD Terms and Conditions. The procedure requires approval of a PD
zoning district classification, PD Master Plan, and PD Terms and Conditions
(See §
162.03-02(D)(4)), and then a Final PD Plan (See §
162.03-02(E)).
         (b)   Pre-application conference, application submission, review,
public notification, and scheduling hearing. The procedures and requirements
for submission and review of an application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures. Application submittal requirements shall be
in accordance with the requirements in §
162.02-05, Application Submission.
         (c)   Review and recommendation by Planning Commission. After
preparation of a staff report, public notification, and the scheduling of the
public hearing, the application shall be referred to the Planning Commission by
the Zoning Administrator on the date the public hearing on the application is
conducted. The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the
application in accordance with §
162.02-17, Public Hearing Procedures. At the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall consider the application, the relevant support materials, the
staff report, the testimony given at the public hearing, and following the
close of the public hearing, make a report to the City Council recommending
either to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application based on
the standards in §
162.03-02(D)(2), Planned Development Standards. The Planning Commission shall
forward its report to City Council within 30 calendar days of the application's
referral by the Zoning Administrator (unless a longer review period is
established by mutual agreement of the applicant and Planning Commission). If
the Planning Commission does not submit its report within the prescribed time,
it is presumed the Planning Commission recommends approval of the application,
and the City Council may proceed to act on the application without the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Review and action by City Council. After receipt of the staff
report and the report from the Planning Commission, the City Council shall
review and consider the application, the relevant support materials, the staff
report, the report of the Planning Commission, and the comments given at the
meeting (if any). In its discretion, the City Council may refer the matter back
to the Planning Commission for further study and recommendation on specific
issues and for a supplemental report to be submitted to the City Council. If
the referral requires additional public notification, it shall be given in
accordance with §
162.02-09, Public Notification. During the meeting at which the application is
finally considered, the City Council shall approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the application based on the standards in §
162.03-02(D)(2), Planned Development Standards.
      (2)   Planned development standards. A PD zoning district classification,
PD Master Plan, and PD Terms and Conditions shall comply with the standards in
§
162.03-01 (F), Zoning Map Amendment Standards, and the standards for the PD
District that is being approved in accordance with §
163.04-05, General Standards for All Planned Development Districts.
      (3)   Conditions of approval. In approving a PD district classification,
a PD Master Plan, and PD Terms and Conditions, the City Council may impose
appropriate conditions on the approval in accordance with §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
      (4)   PD Terms and Conditions. Concurrent with the approval of the
adopting ordinance and the PD Master Plan, PD Terms and Conditions shall be
established binding the planned development to any conditions placed in the
adopting ordinance and PD Master Plan. The PD Terms and Conditions shall
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The PD Master Plan and PD Standards;
         (b)   Conditions related to the approval of the PD Master Plan;
         (c)   Provisions governing how transportation, potable water, sewage,
stormwater management, park, fire, police, school, and other facilities will be
provided to accommodate the development proposed in the PD Master Plan;
         (d)   Standards, conditions, or other provisions related to future
development approvals, or responsibilities of the landowners within the PD
Master Plan;
         (e)   How parking is addressed on the site.
      (5)   Placement of Planned Development District (PD) classification on
official zoning district map.  After final approval of the adopting ordinance
for the PD zoning district classification, the PD Master Plan, and PD Terms and
Conditions, the Zoning Administrator shall amend the official zoning map to
show a PD zoning district classification.
      (6)   Recordation. The applicant shall record the adopting ordinance, the
PD Master Plan and the PD Terms and Conditions with the Register of Mesne
Conveyance. They shall be binding upon the landowners, their successors and
assigns, and shall constitute the development regulations for the land.
Development of the land shall be limited to the uses, density, configuration,
and all other elements and conditions set forth on the PD Master Plan and in
the PD Terms and Conditions. The applicant shall submit proof to the Zoning
Administrator that the adopting ordinance, PD Master Plan, and PD Terms and
Conditions have been recorded with the Register of Mesne Conveyance within six
months of its approval, or the adopting ordinance, PD Master Plan, and PD Terms
and Conditions shall automatically and immediately be rendered invalid and the
land shall return to its prior zoning district classification (or if the land
was not located in the city prior to its approval as a PD zoning district
classification, the land shall be classified CN).
      (7)   Expiration.  
         (a)   General. The approval of the adopting ordinance for a PD zoning
district classification, the PD Master Plan, and PD Terms and Conditions shall
expire unless an application for a PD Final Plan for any part or section of the
plan for development shown on the PD Master Plan is submitted within one year
of approval (See §
162.03-02(E)). Such time period shall not be extended with transfer of
ownership.
         (b)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit period by the applicant, and upon a
showing of good cause, the City Council may grant an extension not to exceed
six months for the submission of a Final PD Plan. The approval shall be deemed
extended until the City Council has acted upon the request for extension.
         (c)   Expiration.
            1.   Failure to submit a Final PD Plan within the time limits
established by this section shall result in expiration of the PD zoning
district classification, the PD Master Plan, and the PD Terms and Conditions,
and the prior zoning district classification shall thereupon be re-established
(or if the land was not located in the city prior to its approval as a PD
zoning district classification, the land shall be classified CN).
            2.   If an applicant can demonstrate that a pending legal action
has prevented them from submitting a Final PD Plan, the City Council, may, upon
terms and conditions as determined in its sole discretion, consider suspending
the expiration of the PD zoning district classification, the PD Master Plan,
and the PD Terms and Conditions until the legal action is resolved.
      (8)   Minor deviations. A minor deviation to a PD Master Plan or PD Terms
and Conditions shall not be considered as an amendment, and shall be approved
by the Zoning Administrator. The minor deviation shall comply with the
standards of this ZDO. A minor deviation shall be limited to technical
considerations which could not reasonably be anticipated during the approval
process or any other change which has no material effect on the character of
the approved PD development or any of its approved terms or conditions. The
following shall constitute minor deviations:
         (a)   Driveway relocations;
         (b)   Structure floor plan revisions;
         (c)   Facility design modifications for amenities and the like; or
         (d)   Changes in the amount of parking provided by 10% or less.
   Changes that materially affect the basic concept of the PD Master Plan are
not considered minor deviations, and shall only be treated as amendments to the
PD Master Plan or the PD Terms and Conditions. (See §
162.03-02(D)(4)).
      (9)   Amendments.
         (a)   General. If an applicant determines if is necessary to alter the
concept or intent of the PD Master Plan or the PD Terms and Conditions, the PD
Master Plan or PD Terms and Conditions shall be amended, extended, or modified
only in accordance with the procedures and standards for its original approval.
         (b)   Amendments defined. The following items are considered an
alteration of the concept or intent of the PD Master Plan or PD Terms and
Conditions:
            1.   Changes in use designations;
            2.   Density/intensity increases;
            3.   Decreases in open space;
            4.   Substantial changes in the location of streets (particularly
if streets are to be deleted or access points to the development are moved so
traffic flows both inside and outside the development are affected);
            5.   Change in the location of any public easement;
            6.   Change in the proportion of housing types by more than 10%;
            7.   Violation of any specific condition of the PD Terms and
Conditions; or
            8.   Change in the location of proposed parking or the amount of
parking provided by more than 10%.
   (E)   Final PD Plan.
      (1)   Submittal of PD Final Plan. Within one year of the approval of a PD
zoning district classification, PD Master Plan, and PD Terms and Conditions,
the applicant shall submit a PD Final Plan for any part or section of the plan
for development shown in the PD Master Plan. The PD Final Plan shall implement
the PD Master Plan. For the purposes of this ZDO, the PD Final Plan shall mean
either site plan (§
162.03-06) or preliminary subdivision plat (§ 162.03-07(D)) approval, whichever
is appropriate.
      (2)   Standards. In addition to complying with the relevant standards for
site plan (§
162.03-06), or subdivision (§
162.03-07), whichever is appropriate, the PD Final Plan shall also conform to
the PD Master Plan and the PD Terms and Conditions.
      (3)   Expiration. 
         (a)   Substantial completion required. The approval of a PD Final Plan
shall expire unless construction has reached the level of substantial
completion. For the purposes of this subsection, substantial completion shall
mean the issuance of certificates of occupancy for 50% or more of the
residential units or for 33% or more of nonresidential square footage in the PD
Final Plan, within three years of the date of approval of the PD Final Plan.
         (b)   Extension.
            1.   Upon written application submitted at least 30 days prior to
the expiration of the permit for Final PD Plan by the applicant, and upon a
showing of good cause, the City Council may grant one extension not to exceed
six months.
            2.   If the construction has not achieved substantial completion
within the time established in the extension, the City Council may approve one
additional extension for a period not to exceed six months, for good cause
shown. If a PD plan for the planned development has not achieved substantial
completion, the land shall be rezoned to its prior zoning district
classification (or if the land was not located in the city prior to its
approval as a PD zoning district classification, the land shall be classified
CN).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-03 Special Exception Permit.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a means for
reviewing applications for approval of uses allowed as special exceptions.
These are uses that are generally compatible with the other uses permitted in a
zoning district, but require individual review of their location, design,
configuration, and density and intensity of use, and may require the imposition
of conditions to ensure the appropriateness of the use at a particular
location.
   (B)   Authority. The BZA is authorized to review and decide applications for
special exception permits in accordance with this section. Only those uses
identified as special exceptions in
Table 164.01, Table of Allowed Uses, are authorized to be considered as special
exceptions under this section. The designation of a use as a special exception
in
Table 164.01, Table of Allowed Uses, does not constitute an authorization that
such use shall be approved through a special exception permit in accordance
with this section. Rather, each proposed special exception shall be evaluated
by the BZA for compliance with the standards set forth in this section and the
applicable standards for the use in §
164.03, Use-Specific Standards (if appropriate).
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application submission, review, public notification, and scheduling
hearing. The procedures and requirements for submission and review of an
application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures. Applicants may submit a site plan (prepared
in accordance with the standards in §
162.03-06, Site Plan) with their application for a special exception permit.
      (2)   Review and action by Board of Zoning Appeals. After preparation of
a staff report, public notification, and the scheduling of a public hearing,
the BZA shall conduct a public hearing on the application in accordance with §
162.02-17, Public Hearing Procedures. At the public hearing, the BZA shall
consider the application, the relevant support materials, the staff report, and
the testimony given at the public hearing. After the close of the public
hearing, the BZA shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application based on the standards in §
162.03-03(D), Special Exception Standards.
   (D)   Special exception standards. A special exception permit shall be
approved only upon a finding the applicant demonstrates all the following
standards are met:
      (1)   The proposed special exception complies with all standards in §
164.03, Use-Specific Standards.
      (2)   The proposed special exception is appropriate for its location and
compatible with the character of surrounding lands and the uses permitted in
the zoning district(s) of surrounding lands.
      (3)   The design of the proposed special exception minimizes adverse
effects, including visual impacts of the proposed use on adjacent lands;
furthermore, the proposed special exception avoids significant adverse impact
on surrounding lands regarding service delivery, parking and loading, odors,
noise, glare, and vibration, and does not create a nuisance.
      (4)   The proposed special exception minimizes environmental impacts and
does not cause significant deterioration of water and air resources, wildlife
habitat, scenic resources, and other natural resources.
      (5)   There is adequate road capacity available to serve the proposed
special exception, and the proposed special exception use is designed to ensure
safe ingress and egress onto the site and safe road conditions around the site.
      (6)   The proposed special exception will not substantially and
permanently injure the use of neighboring land for those uses that are
permitted in the zoning district, or reduce property values.
      (7)   A site plan has been prepared that demonstrates how the proposed
special exception use complies with the other standards of this subsection.
      (8)   The proposed special exception use complies with all other relevant
city laws and ordinances, state and federal laws, and regulations.
   (E)   Conditions of approval. In approving a special exception permit, the
BZA may impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval in accordance with
§
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (F)   Appeal.  A person having a substantial interest affected by a decision
of the BZA on a special exception permit may appeal from the decision of the
BZA to the Circuit Court in and for Charleston County by filing with the Clerk
of Court a petition setting forth plainly, fully, and distinctly why the
decision is contrary to law. The appeal shall be filed within 30 days after the
decision of the BZA is mailed. For the purposes of this subsection, person
includes persons jointly or severally aggrieved by the decision of the BZA.
   (G)   Effect. Issuance of a special exception permit shall authorize only
the particular special exception that is approved in the permit. A special
exception permit, including any conditions, shall run with the land and shall
not be affected by a change in ownership.
   (H)   Expiration.
      (1)   General. The BZA may prescribe a time limit within which
development activity shall begin or be completed on the special exception
permit, or both. Failure to begin or complete such development activity within
the time limit specified shall void the special exception permit. Unless
specified otherwise by the BZA, a building permit shall be obtained for the
development approved by the permit within 12 months from the date of approval,
and development shall be completed on the building permit within the time
allowed under the city's building regulations, or the special exception permit
shall expire and be void. In cases where a building permit is not required to
establish an approved special exception use, a zoning permit, §
162.03-13, shall be obtained within 12 months from the date of approval, or the
special exception permit shall expire and be void.
      (2)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit period by the applicant, and upon a
showing of good cause, the BZA may grant one extension not to exceed six
months. The approval shall be deemed extended until the BZA has acted upon the
request for extension. Failure to submit an application for an extension within
the time limits established by this section shall result in the expiration of
the special exception permit.
   (I)   Amendments. A special exception permit may be amended, extended, or
modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for
its original approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-04 Variance Permits.
   (A)   Permits distinguished. Both variance permits from subdivision
standards and variance permits from zoning provisions are established under
this ZDO. Variance permits from subdivision standards are intended to address
requests to deviate from the standards in
Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards, as well as variance requests from the lot
dimension requirements in Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards as part of the
subdivision establishment process, §
162.03-07. The variance permit process from zoning provisions is intended to
address all other variance application requests.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of a variance permit is to allow certain
deviations from the standards of this ZDO (such as height, yard setback, lot
coverage, parking, landscaping, and signage standards), when the landowner
demonstrates that, owing to special circumstances or conditions beyond the
landowner's control (such as exceptional topographical conditions, narrowness,
shallowness, or the shape of a specific parcel of land), the literal
application of the dimensional standards would result in undue and unique
hardship to the landowner and the deviation would not be contrary to the public
interest.
   (C)   Authority.
      (1)   The BZA is authorized to review and decide a variance permit from
the zoning standards in accordance with this section.
      (2)   The Planning Commission is authorized to review and decide on a
variance permit from the subdivision standards in accordance with this section.
   (D)   Procedure for zoning variance permits.
      (1)   Application submission, review, notification and scheduling
hearing. The procedures and requirements for submission and review of an
application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Review and action by Board of Zoning Appeals. After preparation of
a staff report, public notification, and the scheduling of a public hearing,
the BZA shall conduct a public hearing on the application in accordance with §
162.02-17, Public Hearing Procedures. At the public hearing, the BZA shall
consider the application, the relevant support materials, the staff report, and
the testimony given at the public hearing. After the close of the public
hearing, the BZA shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
application based on the standards in §
162.03-04(F), Variance Permit Standards.
   (E)   Procedure for subdivision variance permits.
      (1)   Application submission, review, notification and scheduling
hearing. The procedures and requirements for submission and review of an
application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Review and action by Planning Commission. After preparation of a
staff report, public notification, and the scheduling of a public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the application in
accordance with §
162.02-17, Public Hearing Procedures. At the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall consider the application, the relevant support materials, the
staff report, and the testimony given at the public hearing. After the close of
the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the application based on the standards in §
162.03-07(F), Variance Permit Standards.
   (F)   Variance permit standards.
      (1)   Application. The variance permit standards set forth in this ZDO
are applicable to both zoning variance permits and subdivision variance
permits.
      (2)   Findings. A variance permit shall be approved only upon a finding,
made in writing that the applicant demonstrates all of the following standards
are met:
         (a)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions (such as
topographic conditions, narrowness, shallowness, or the shape of property)
pertaining to the particular piece of land for which the variance permit is
sought, that do not generally apply to other land or structures in the
vicinity.
         (b)   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of
the applicant.
         (c)   Because of the conditions in §
162.03-04(F)(2)(a) above, the application of this ZDO to the land would
effectively prohibit or unreasonably restrict the utilization of the land and
result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
         (d)   The granting of the variance permit is the minimum action that
will make possible the reasonable use of the land or structure which is not
contrary to the public interest, and which would carry out the spirit of this
ZDO.
         (e)   The authorization of the variance permit will not result in
substantial detriment to adjacent land, and the character of the zoning
district in which the land subject to the application is located.
         (f)   The granting of the variance permit will be generally consistent
with the purposes and intent of this ZDO.
      (3)   Not grounds for variance permit. The following do not constitute
grounds for a variance permit:
         (a)   The nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or
buildings in the same zoning district that applies to the land for which the
variance permit is sought.
         (b)   The fact that land may be utilized more profitably should a
variance permit be granted.
         (c)   No variance permit shall be granted to:
            1.   Allow a use not permitted by right or special exception in the
district in which the land subject to the variance permit is located.
            2.   Extend physically a nonconforming use of land.
            3.   Change the zoning district boundaries on the official zoning
map.
            4.   Establish, enlarge, or alter any use, structure, or
characteristic of use that arises from or is necessitated by the approval of a
special exception permit.
   (G)   Conditions of approval. In approving a variance permit, the BZA or
Planning Commission may impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval in
accordance with §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (H)   Appeal. A person having a substantial interest affected by a decision
of the BZA or the Planning Commission on a variance permit may appeal from the
decision of the BZA or the Planning Commission to the Circuit Court in and for
Charleston County by filing with the Clerk of Court a petition setting forth
plainly, fully, and distinctly why the decision is contrary to law. The appeal
shall be filed within 30 days after the decision of the the Planning Commission
is made or within 30 days after the decision of the BZA is mailed. For the
purposes of this subsection, person includes persons jointly or severally
aggrieved by the decision of the BZA or the Planning Commission.
   (I)   Recordation. The BZA or the Planning Commission may require the
applicant to record the variance permit with the Register of Mesne Conveyance.
The variance permit shall be binding upon the landowners, their successors, and
assigns.
   (J)   Subsequent development. Development authorized by the variance permit
shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other permits
required by this ZDO or any other applicable provisions of the city. A variance
permit does not ensure that the development approved as a variance permit shall
receive subsequent approval for other applications for permit approval unless
the relevant and applicable portions of this ZDO or any other applicable
provisions are met.
   (K)   Effect. Issuance of a variance permit shall authorize only the
particular variance that is approved in the permit. A variance permit,
including any conditions, shall run with the land and not be affected by a
change in ownership. Land subject to an approved variance permit shall not be
exempted from other relevant standards in this ZDO which are unrelated to the
standard being varied.
   (L)   Expiration.
      (1)   General. The BZA or Planning Commission may prescribe a time limit
within which development activity shall begin or be completed on the variance
permit, or both. Failure to begin or complete such development activity within
the time limit specified shall void the variance permit. Unless specified
otherwise by the BZA, a variance permit shall automatically expire:
         (a)   One year from the date of its issuance if:
            1.   The development authorized by the permit has not commenced,
and no substantial construction, alteration, demolition, excavation, or other
similar work required by the permit is completed; or
            2.   Less than 10% of the total amount of development approved as
part of the permit is completed, when construction, alteration, demolition,
excavation, or other similar work is required.
         (b)   If the development approved by the variance permit is
discontinued and not resumed for a period of one year.
      (2)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit period by the applicant, and upon a
showing of good cause, the BZA or Planning Commission (as appropriate) may
grant one extension not to exceed six months. Failure to submit an application
for an extension within the time limits established by this section shall
result in the expiration of the variance permit.
   (M)   Amendment. A variance permit may be amended, extended, or modified
only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 014-24, passed 6-11-24)
   § 162.03-05 Administrative Adjustments.
   (A)   General. This section sets out the procedures and standards for
administrative adjustments, which are modifications of 10% or less of any
numeric dimensional standard in
Table 165.01, Dimensional Standards, except those related to maximum gross
density.
   (B)   Authority. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to review and
approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application for an administrative
adjustment in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Initial submission of application and staff review. The procedures
and requirements for submission and review of an application are established in
§
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Review and action by Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
shall review and take action on the application in accordance with the
procedures and requirements of §
162.02-18, Zoning Administrator or City Official Review Procedures.
   (D)   Administrative adjustment standards.  Administrative adjustments shall
be approved upon a finding the applicant demonstrates all of the following
standards are met:
      (1)   The requested administrative adjustment is not inconsistent with
the character of development in the surrounding area, and will not result in
incompatible uses.
      (2)   Any adverse impacts resulting from the administrative adjustment
will be mitigated to the maximum extent practicable.
      (3)   The administrative adjustment is of a technical nature (i.e.,
relief from a dimensional), and is either:
         (a)   Required to compensate for some unusual aspect of the site or
the proposed development that is not shared by landowners in general;
         (b)   Supporting an objective or goal from the purpose and intent
statements of the zone district where located; or
         (c)   Proposed to save healthy existing trees or other significant
natural resource.
      (4)   The administrative adjustment will not substantially interfere with
the convenient and enjoyable use of adjacent lands, and will not pose a danger
to the public health or safety.
   (E)   Conditions of approval.  In approving an administrative adjustment,
the Zoning Administrator may grant a lesser modification than the maximum
allowed by this section or requested by an applicant, and may impose
appropriate conditions on the permit approval in accordance with §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (F)   Recordation. The Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to
record the administrative adjustment with the Register of Mesne Conveyance. The
administrative adjustment shall be binding upon the landowners, their
successors, and assigns.
   (G)   Subsequent development. Development authorized by the administrative
adjustment shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other
permits required by this ZDO or any other applicable provisions of the city. An
administrative adjustment shall not ensure that the development receiving an
administrative adjustment receives subsequent approval for other applications
for development unless the relevant and applicable portions of this ZDO or any
other applicable provisions are met.
   (H)   Effect. Issuance of an administrative adjustment shall authorize only
the particular administrative adjustment that is approved in the permit. An
administrative adjustment, including any conditions, shall run with the land
and not be affected by a change in ownership.
   (I)   Expiration.
      (1)   General. The Zoning Administrator may prescribe a time limit within
which development activity shall begin or be completed on the development
subject to an administrative adjustment, or both. Failure to begin or complete
such development activity within the time limit specified shall void the
administrative adjustment. Unless specified otherwise by the Zoning
Administrator, a building permit shall be obtained for the development approved
by the permit within 12 months from the date of approval of the administrative
adjustment, and development shall be completed on the building permit within
the time allowed under the city's building regulations, or the administrative
adjustment shall expire and be void.
      (2)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit period by the applicant and upon a
showing of good cause, the Zoning Administrator may grant one extension not to
exceed six months. Failure to submit an application for an extension within the
time limits established by this section shall result in the expiration of the
administrative adjustment.
   (J)   Amendment. An administrative adjustment may be amended, extended, or
modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for
its original approval.
   (K)   Appeals. An aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the Zoning
Administrator to the BZA in accordance with §
162.03-15, Appeals.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-06 Site Plan.
   (A)   Purpose. Site plan review is required to ensure that the layout and
general design of proposed development is compatible with surrounding uses and
complies with the development standards, subdivision standards, all other
relevant provisions of this ZDO, and all other applicable city regulations.
   (B)   Applicability. All development, unless exempted in accordance with §
162.03-06, Exemptions, shall be required to have site plan approved in
accordance with this section prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (C)   Exemptions. Internal construction that does not increase gross floor
area, increase the density or intensity of use, or affect parking or
landscaping requirements shall be exempted from the requirements of this
section (but is not exempted from the standards in §
162.03-13, Zoning Permit).
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission and review of application. The procedures and
requirements for submission and review of a site plan are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures. Additional submittal requirements for
nonresidential and multi-family developments shall include six copies of each
of the following:
         (a)   A site plan drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals 20 feet,
showing the proposed structure(s) on the lot with the dimensions relative to
the property line; existing neighboring building(s) adjacent to the property
line; demolition of existing site features; and location of all proposed site
features such as parking, driveways, walls, gates, location and size of
mechanical equipment, landscaped areas, and accessory buildings.
         (b)   Floor plans drawn at a minimum scale of 1/8 inch equals one foot
depicting the arrangement of the interior spaces of the first floor; the
relationship between first and ground floors and the site; the location of
windows and doors; mechanical equipment; electrical meter location; and
electrical service access.
         (c)   Building elevations and typical building cross sections through
all elevations drawn at a minimum scale of 1/8 inch equals one foot, including
vertical dimensions; existing grade; proposed grade; finish floor elevations;
roof slopes; mechanical vents and equipment; location and type of outdoor
lighting fixtures; design and location of signage; and proposed material
selections and textures, indicated by hatching where appropriate, including
those for wall cladding, roofs, chimney flues, gutters and downspouts, and
porches and railings.
         (d)   A landscape plan drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals 20
feet, showing the location of existing trees to be retained or removed on the
site; the locations, varieties, and sizes of trees and plant materials
(graphically indicated) to be planted on the site; other pertinent landscape
features; and indication of the type of irrigation system to be installed,
where applicable.
         (e)   Typical construction details, including wall sections.
         (f)   Materials specification outline with samples, brochures, or
photographs of all exterior materials, colors, finishes, and fixtures.
         (g)   Panoramic photograph showing a general view of the street
showing the building, site and adjacent property (streetscape); individual
photographs of the buildings immediately adjacent to and across from the site;
and a frontal view of the building site from the street.
         (h)   Drawings of proposed signs illustrating the proposed lettering
and graphics, drawn to scale, colors of the proposed sign shall be indicated on
the drawing, and actual color samples shall also be furnished. Any proposed
illumination techniques shall be indicated on the drawing.
         (i)   A contextual model showing the new building in the existing
environment, if and when required by the DRB.
   Applications for single- and two-family dwellings shall include a plot plan
and a sketch of sufficient detail to determine the proposed building's
compliance with §
166.05, Residential Design Standards.
      (2)   Review and action by Zoning Administrator. Site plan applications
for single- and two-family dwellings shall be reviewed and decided by the
Zoning Administrator in accordance with the procedures and requirements in §
162.02-18, Zoning Administrator or City Official Review Procedures, and the
standards in §
162.03-06(E), Site Plan Standards. All other site plan applications shall be
reviewed and decided by the DRB.
      (3)   Review and action by Design Review Board. After receipt of a staff
report on a site plan application from the Zoning Administrator, review and
recommendation by the DRC, the Design Review Board shall review and consider
the application, the relevant support materials, the staff report, and any
comments given at the meeting. After this consideration, the Design Review
Board shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application based on
the standards in §
162.03-06(E), Site Plan Standards.
   (E)   Site plan standards. A site plan shall be approved only upon a finding
the applicant demonstrates all of the following standards are met:
      (1)   The use is allowed in the zoning district in accordance with Table
164.01, Table of Allowed Uses.
      (2)   The development and uses in the site plan comply with §
164.03, Use-Specific Standards.
      (3)   The development proposed in the site plan and its general layout
and design comply with all appropriate standards in
Chapter 166: Development Standards.
      (4)   The development proposed in the site plan and its general layout
and design comply with all appropriate standards in
Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards.
   (F)   Conditions of approval.  In approving a site plan, the Zoning
Administrator or Design Review Board may impose appropriate conditions on the
permit approval in accordance with §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (G)   Expiration.
      (1)   General. The Zoning Administrator or Design Review Board (as
appropriate) may prescribe a time limit within which development activity shall
begin or be completed, or both. Failure to begin or complete such
development within the time specified shall void the site plan. Unless
specified by the Zoning Administrator or the Design Review Board (as
appropriate), a site plan approval shall automatically expire at the end of 12
months after the date of its issuance if a building permit for at least one
building in the development proposed in the site plan is not approved. A change
in ownership of the land does not affect this time frame.
      (2)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit period by the applicant and upon a
showing of good cause, the Zoning Administrator or Design Review Board
(whichever is appropriate) may grant one extension for a site plan not to
exceed six months. Failure to submit an application for an extension within the
time limits established by this section shall render the site plan void.
   (H)   Amendments.  A site plan may be amended, extended, or modified only in
accordance with the procedures and standards established for its original
approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-07 Subdivision.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety,
morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future
inhabitants of the city during the subdivision process by:
      (1)   Providing for the orderly growth and development;
      (2)   Coordinating streets and roads within proposed subdivisions with
the city’s planned street system, and with other public facilities;
      (3)   Providing right-of-way easements for streets and utilities;
      (4)   Avoiding congestion and overcrowding, and encouraging the proper
arrangement of streets in relation to existing or planned streets;
      (5)   Ensuring there is adequate open space and recreation facilities to
serve development;
      (6)   Ensuring natural resources are adequately protected;
      (7)   Ensuring there is proper recordation of landownership records; and
      (8)   Ensuring the provision of such other matters as the City Council
may deem necessary in order to protect the general health, safety, and welfare
of the city.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   General. The following development, unless exempted in accordance
with §
162.03-07(B)(3), Exemptions, is required to have land subdivided in accordance
with the procedures and standards of this section prior to the transfer of
title or sale of any lots, or the issuance of a building permit for
development.
         (a)   The division of land into two or more lots, building sites, or
other divisions for the purpose of immediate or future sale, lease, or building
development;
         (b)   Re-subdivision involving the further division or relocation of
lot lines of any lot or lots within an already approved subdivision; and
         (c)   The combination or consolidation of lots of record.
      (2)   Overview of development permits required. Every subdivision of land
is classified as either:
         (a)   A minor subdivision, or
         (b)   A major subdivision (comprised of a preliminary subdivision plat
and a final plat).
   A minor subdivision or final subdivision plat shall be approved for any
subdivision prior to the transfer of title or sale of any lots for the land
subject to subdivision.
      (3)   Exemptions.  The following development shall be exempt from the
requirements of this section:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased, and where the
Zoning Administrator determines there are no significant changes to or
encroachment upon the public street systems required, and where the lot sizes
comply with the standards set forth in the zoning district where the land is
located;
         (b)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of new streets; and
         (c)   The partition of land by court decree.
   (C)   Minor subdivision.
      (1)   General. The minor subdivision procedure shall be utilized for the
subdivision of land into three or fewer lots when:
         (a)   No new streets, alleys, or other public ways are created;
         (b)   No changes are made to the existing rights-of-way of any
streets, alleys, or other public ways;
         (c)   No new utilities are required to serve the subdivided land;
         (d)   The division of land complies with the standards of
Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards;
         (e)   No flag lot is created in a residential district that is
inconsistent with existing development patterns; and
         (f)   The lots have direct access onto a public street that has been
accepted for maintenance by the appropriate agency.
      (2)   Procedure.
         (a)   Initial submission of application and staff review. The
procedures and requirements for submission and review of an application are
established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
         (b)   Review and action by Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall review and take action on the application for minor
subdivision in accordance with §
162.02-18, Zoning Administrator or City Official Review Procedures.
      (3)   Standards.  A minor subdivision shall be approved on a finding the
application complies with the standards in Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards,
all other relevant provisions of this ZDO, and all other relevant city
ordinances and regulations.
      (4)   Recordation. The subdivider shall file an approved plat for minor
subdivision with the Register of Mesne Conveyance for recording within ten days
after the date of approval or the approved plat shall expire.
      (5)   Amendments. A plat for minor subdivision may be amended, extended,
or modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established
for its original approval.
      (6)   Successive applications. Any subsequent subdivision of land already
subject to a minor subdivision approval shall be in accordance with §
162.03-07(D), Major Subdivision.
   (D)   Major subdivision.
      (1)   Applicability. The standards and procedures of this subsection
shall apply to all subdivision of land not exempted in accordance with §
162.03-07(B)(3), Exemptions, or considered a minor subdivision in accordance
with §
162.03-07(C), Minor Subdivisions.
      (2)   Preliminary plat.
         (a)   General. A preliminary subdivision plat establishes the general
layout and design for the subdivision. Upon the approval of a preliminary
subdivision plat, detailed plans for street construction, utility line
installations, and similar approvals shall be included. Building permits may
not be issued before approval of a final plat for subdivision.
         (b)   Contents. Preliminary subdivision plats shall be of a scale not
smaller than one inch equal to 200 feet, and shall be on a sheet 24 inches by
36 inches in size. Preliminary plat drawings shall include all of the following
information:
            1.   The proposed name of development, which shall not duplicate or
too closely approximate, phonetically or otherwise, the name of any development
within the jurisdiction;
            2.   A north point, graphic scale, written scale and date,
including the month, day and year that the original drawing was completed and
the month, day and year for each revision of the original drawing;
            3.   The name of land owner, developer, if different, and location
and ownership of adjoining properties;
            4.   The existing zoning district classification of the land;
            5.   A vicinity map, for the purpose of locating the property being
developed, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet and showing the
relation of the property to surrounding properties, differentiated by tone or
pattern, to adjoining property and to all streets, roads, municipal boundaries
and recorded subdivision plats existing within 1,000 feet of any part of the
property;
            6.   The distance and bearing of one of the corners of the boundary
of the development to the nearest intersection of existing streets or roads;
            7.   The total tract boundaries of the land being developed,
showing bearing and distances, and a statement of total acreage of the land;
            8.   All existing municipal boundaries, property lines, rights-of-
way, easements, railroads, sewer lines, water lines, fire hydrants, utility
transmission lines, culverts, bridges, storm drainage ditches, water courses,
buildings and wooded areas;
            9.   All existing streets, including streets of record (recorded
but not constructed), on or abutting the tract, including the names, rights-of-
way widths, pavement widths and approximate grades;
            10.   Street rights-of-way, pavement widths and grades, (including
street profiles and cross sections when requested by the Planning Commission);
            11.   All lot lines, lot dimensions and lot and block numbers;
            12.   Preliminary plans for utilities (i.e., sewer, water,
electricity, gas lines and storm drainage), including storm and sanitary sewer
profiles, cross sections, and sizes when required by the Planning Commission);
            13.   Plans for the protection of soils on the site from wash,
erosion, and other drainage during construction;
            14.   Other easements and rights-of-way. including locations,
dimensions and purposes;
            15.   Any contour changes to be made by grading;
            16.   Parks, school sites, and other areas designated for public
use, if any;
            17.   Tree retention and open space set-aside areas;
            18.   Areas to be used for purposes other than residential or
institutional development, if any, with the purpose, location and dimensions of
each indicated;
            19.   Copies of approval of the SCDES whenever individual sewage
disposal or water supply systems are required; and
            20.   Any other information considered by either the applicant or
Planning Commission to be pertinent to the review of the preliminary
subdivision plat.
   If the preliminary plat requires more than one sheet, a key diagram showing
relative location of the several sections shall be drawn on each sheet.
         (c)   Transportation impact analysis required. Applications for major
subdivisions that will result in ten or more dwelling units or 5,000 or more
square feet of nonresidential area shall include a traffic impact analysis that
includes a study area of at least one mile around the proposed development. The
analysis shall indicate existing roadway levels-of-service and all on-site and
off-site mitigation required to maintain existing level-of-service conditions
following completion of the proposed development.
         (d)   Application review. The procedures and requirements for
submission and review of an application for a preliminary plat for subdivision
are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
         (e)   Review and action by Planning Commission. The Zoning
Administrator shall refer the staff report on the preliminary subdivision plat
to the Planning Commission on the date the application is being considered at a
regularly scheduled meeting. At the meeting, the Planning Commission shall
consider the application, the relevant support materials, the staff report, and
any comments given during the meeting. During the meeting, the Planning
Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the preliminary
subdivision plat based on the standards in §
162.03-07(D)(3), Preliminary Plat Standards. The Planning Commission shall act
on the application for preliminary subdivision plat within 60 days of the
application’s referral from the Zoning Administrator (unless a longer review
period is agreed upon between the Planning Commission and subdivider).
      (3)   Preliminary subdivision plat standards.  A preliminary plat for
subdivision shall be approved upon a finding the application complies with the
standards in
Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards, all other relevant provisions of this ZDO,
and all other relevant city ordinances and regulations.
      (4)   Conditions. In approving a preliminary subdivision plat, the
Planning Commission may impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval in
accordance with §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
      (5)   Effect of approval. Approval of a preliminary subdivision plat
shall constitute approval of the development with the general lot shapes and
alignments of streets identified on the preliminary plat. Approval of a
preliminary subdivision plat allows the subdivider to apply for a grading
permit, §
162.03-09, necessary for construction of streets and public utilities. Approval
of a preliminary subdivision plat does not constitute approval of a final
subdivision plat. The preliminary subdivision plat shall run with the land.
      (6)   Expiration.
         (a)   The approval of a preliminary subdivision plat shall expire at
the end of 12 months from the date approval was granted by the Planning
Commission in the event the subdivider has not applied for a grading permit,
final subdivision plat, or other permit showing attempts at substantial
progress.
         (b)   In the event a final subdivision plat for all or a portion of
the preliminary subdivision plat is not applied for within one year of the
original approval date of the preliminary subdivision plat, the city may
require that the preliminary plat be amended and updated to comply with all
standards in effect at the time of its re-review.
      (7)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit by the applicant and upon a showing of
good cause, the Planning Commission may grant one extension not to exceed six
months. The approval shall be deemed extended until the Planning Commission has
acted upon the request for extension. Failure to submit an application for an
extension within the time limits established by this section shall render the
preliminary subdivision plat void.
      (8)   Amendment. A preliminary subdivision plat may be amended, extended,
or modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established
for its original approval.
      (9)   Final subdivision plat.
         (a)   General. After approval of a preliminary subdivision plat and
construction of any required public improvements, the subdivider shall prepare
a final subdivision plat for review in accordance with this section.
         (b)   Initial submission of application and staff review.  The
procedures and requirements for review of an application for final plat for
subdivision are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
         (c)   Submittal requirements.  The final plat of a proposed
development shall be clearly and legibly drawn to a scale of one inch equal to
100 feet, and shall be 21 inches by 30 inches or of a size approved by the
Zoning Administrator. Final plats shall contain or be accompanied by all the
following information:
            1.   Name of development;
            2.   Name of record owner and surveyor or engineer;
            3.   North point, graphic scale, written scale and date, including
the month, day and year that the original drawing was completed and the month,
day and year for each revision of the original drawing;
            4.   Name and location of all abutting subdivisions, if any, and
location and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided property;
            5.   A vicinity map, for the purpose of locating the property being
developed, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet and showing the
relation of the property, differentiated by tone or pattern, to adjoining
property and to all streets, roads, municipal boundaries and recorded
subdivision plats existing within 1,000 feet of any part of the property;
            6.   The total tract boundary lines of the area being developed in
accordance with the most recent edition of the Minimum Standards Manual for the
practice of land surveying in the state, as promulgated pursuant to S.C. Code
§§ 40-22-10 et seq. and as set forth in the state administrative regulations at
R 49-400 et seq.;
            7.   The signature, seal and certification of a registered
professional land surveyor or engineer to the effect that the final plat
accurately reflects a survey made by him or her, that any changes from the
description appearing in the last record transfer of land contained in the
final plat are so indicated, that all monuments shown thereon actually exist or
will be installed and their position is accurately shown;
            8.   A statement describing the relationship of the proposed
development to the city’s Comprehensive Plan objectives and policies;
            9.   A notarized certification of ownership showing that the
applicants are the owners, with statements by an attorney acknowledging any
offers of dedication of land for public use and land restrictions by protective
covenants;
            10.   Certification by the SCDES and the appropriate service
district that the water supply and/or sewer disposal system or systems
installed, or proposed for installation, fully meet their requirements;
            11.   The signature, seal and approval of the subdivider’s engineer
indicating that required infrastructure improvements have been satisfactorily
installed;
            12.   Appropriate notations for transfer and recording by the
Register of Mesne Conveyance, indicating date and time of recording, the plat
book location thereof, and instrument number;
            13.   In cases where a subdivision abuts a water body, proof of
coordination with SCDES and SC DNR, information on proposed docks, and
identification of measures proposed to reduce impacts;
            14.   Proof of coordination with the State Historic Preservation
Office of the South Carolina Department of Archives and History; and
            15.   A statement indicating the extent of improvements to a site
prior to sale (in cases where lots are to be sold without housing units).
            16.   A notation of the base flood elevation with the BFE indicated
for each parcel to be created.
         (d)   Review and action by Planning Commission.  The Zoning
Administrator shall refer the staff report on the final subdivision plat to the
Planning Commission on the date the application is being considered at a
regularly scheduled meeting. At the meeting, the Planning Commission shall
consider the application, the relevant support materials, the staff report, and
any comments given during the meeting. During the meeting, the Planning
Commission shall approve or deny the final subdivision plat based on the
standards in §
162.03-07(D)(9)(e), Final Plat Standards.
         (e)   Final plat standards. The final subdivision plat shall:
            1.   Comply with the standards contained in
Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards;
            2.   Be in substantial conformance with the preliminary subdivision
plat;
            3.   Be consistent with all other relevant provisions of this ZDO;
and
            4.   Be consistent with all other relevant city ordinances and
regulations.
         (f)   Recordation. The subdivider shall file the approved final
subdivision plat with the Register of Mesne Conveyance for recording within ten
days after the date of approval of the final subdivision plat or the final
subdivision plat shall expire.
         (g)   Completion of required public improvements prior to issuance of
building permits. All public improvements shall be completed, inspected, and
approved prior to the issuance of the first building permit for development
within the subdivision.
         (h)   Effect of final plat. The approval of a final subdivision plat
shall not be deemed to constitute or effect the acceptance by the city of the
dedication of any street, public utility line, or other public facility shown
on the plat. Upon satisfactory completion of the one-year warranty period,
streets, utility lines, and other public improvements shall be accepted by the
city. However, the city may, by resolution, accept any dedication made to the
public of lands or facilities for streets, parks, or public utility lines. The
city has no obligation to open any street even after acceptance of dedication.
The sale of individual lots shall not occur before final subdivision plat
approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 35-11, passed 12-13-11; Am. Ord. 001-25,
passed 2-11-25)
   § 162.03-08 Building Permit.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a mechanism for
reviewing applications for building permits to ensure all development within
the city complies with the standards of this ZDO.
   (B)   Applicability. No building, driveway, wall, structure, or other
improvement shall be erected, installed, added to, or structurally altered
without the owner or developer having first obtained a building permit from the
Building Official, pursuant to this section and the standards of this section.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission and review of application. The procedures and
requirements for submission and review of an application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Action by Building Official. The Building Official shall review and
take action on the application for a building permit consistent with the
standards in §
162.03-08(E), Building Permit Standards.
   (D)   Application requirements.  Applications for a building permit shall be
filed on a form provided by the Building Official, and shall include the
following:
      (1)   A general description of the proposed work to be completed and the
proposed use(s) being developed;
      (2)   The zoning district designation of the land where development is
proposed;
      (3)   The signature of the land owner or owner's authorized agent;
      (4)   The estimated cost of the construction, including labor and
materials;
      (5)   A plan, drawn to scale, showing:
         (a)   The dimensions of the lot being developed;
         (b)   The size and location of buildings and structures to be erected;
         (c)   The building height from the top of the first living floor
surface;
         (d)   The percentage of the lot covered by impervious surfaces;
         (e)   The total heated square footage; and
         (f)   The front, side, and rear yards or setbacks;
      (6)   The lot's location within a flood hazard area boundary (if
applicable);
      (7)   The use permit issued by the South Carolina SCDES if the lot is
located within the critical area; and
      (8)   Any other information considered necessary by the Building Official
in order to render a decision.
   (E)   Building permit standards. A building permit shall be approved upon a
finding that the application complies with the standards of this ZDO and all
other applicable city ordinances.
   (F)   Conditions. In approving a building permit, the Building Official may
impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval pursuant to §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (G)   Expiration.
      (1)   Time limit for commencement of work. If the work described in any
building permit has not begun within 12 months from the date of issuance, the
building permit shall expire and be void.
      (2)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit by the applicant and upon a showing of
good cause, the Building Official may grant one extension not to exceed six
months. Failure to submit an application for an extension within the time
limits established by this section shall render the building permit void.
   (H)   Amendment.  A building permit may be amended, extended, or modified
only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 11-21, passed 5-11-21; Am. Ord. 001-25,
passed 2-11-25)
   § 162.03-09 Grading Permit.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a mechanism for
reviewing applications for grading permits to ensure all grading within the
city complies with the standards of this section, §
166.04-05, Stormwater Management, all relevant standards in this ZDO, all other
applicable city ordinances, and all other state and federal laws.
   (B)   Applicability. No grading or other land-disturbing activity, including
the addition or installation of any impervious surface, except that exempted by
§
162.03-09(C), Exemptions, shall ensue without first having obtained a grading
permit pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following activities are not required to obtain a
grading permit, but shall comply with all requirements in §
166.04-05, Stormwater Management:
      (1)   Land-disturbing activities exempted from grading permit
requirements by the South Carolina Erosion and Sediment Control Act;
      (2)   Land-disturbing activities undertaken for the purpose of fighting
fires; and
      (3)   Land-disturbing activities taking place on a lot containing a
lawfully established single-family dwelling provided such activities are
located outside of any sensitive natural areas and provided they are limited to
a maximum of 2,500 square feet.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission and review of application. The procedures and
requirements for submission and review of an application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Action by Public Works Director. The Public Works Director shall
review and take action on the application for a grading permit consistent with
the standards in §
162.03-09(E), Grading Permit Standards.
   (E)   Standards. A grading permit shall be approved upon a finding that the
application complies with the standards of the South Carolina Erosion and
Sediment Control Act, which is adopted and incorporated into this ZDO by
reference.
   (F)   Conditions. In approving a grading permit, the Public Works Director
may impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval pursuant to §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (G)   Expiration.
      (1)   If the work described in any grading permit has not begun within
six months from the date of issuance, the grading permit shall expire and be
void.
      (2)   Written notice of the expiration of a grading permit shall be given
to the applicant by the Director of Public Works. Such notice shall clarify
that land-disturbing activity shall not proceed unless and until a new grading
permit is obtained.
   (H)   Amendments. A grading permit may be amended, extended, or modified
only in accordance with the procedures established for its original approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-10 Tree Alteration Permit.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides a mechanism for the removal of trees
within the city only in accordance with the standards in §
166.01, Tree Protection.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Where required. A tree alteration permit shall be required for the
removal of any tree or the pruning of any limb more than six inches diameter at
the nearest juncture.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission and review of application. The procedures and
requirements for submission and review of an application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Action by Building Official. The Building Official shall review and
take action on the application for a tree alteration permit consistent with the
standards in §
162.03-10(E), Tree Alteration Permit Standards.
   (D)   Application requirements. Applications for a tree alteration permit
shall be filed on a form provided by the Building Official.
      (1)   Any application for the removal of a protected or non protected
tree must be accompanied by a landscape plan the location and size of all non
protected trees over 12 inches DBH and protected trees identified in
Table 166.02.
      (2)   Any application for the removal of a tree that is severely
diseased, high risk, dying or hazardous, must be accompanied by a supporting
letter from an ISA arborist or landscape architect certified in the State of
South Carolina.
   (E)   Tree alteration permit standards. A tree alteration permit shall be
approved upon a finding that the application complies with the standards of
this section and §
166.01, Tree Protection.
   (F)   Conditions. In approving a tree alteration permit, the Building
Official may impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval pursuant to §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval. The Building Official may waive the fee
required for a tree alteration permit if the applicant agrees to provide the
city with mulch or chippings created during the tree removal process.
   (G)   Expiration. If the work described in any tree alteration permit has
not begun within six months from the date of issuance, the tree alteration
permit shall expire and be void.
   (H)   Amendments. A tree alteration permit may be amended, extended, or
modified only in accordance with the procedures established for its original
approval.
   (I)   Appeal of decision of Building Official. Any person aggrieved or
affected by a decision of the Building Official may appeal such decision to the
BZA in accordance with §
162.03-15, Appeals.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 25-16, passed 1-10-17; Am. Ord. 029-21,
passed 12-14-21)
   § 162.03-11 Sign Permit.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a mechanism for
reviewing applications for sign permits to ensure all signs within the city
comply with the standards of §
166.08, Sign Standards.
   (B)   Applicability. No sign shall be erected, installed, displayed,
structurally altered, or otherwise changed without the sign owner having first
obtained a sign permit from the Building Official, pursuant to this section and
the standards of §
166.08, Sign Standards.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following are not considered signs, and do not require
a sign permit (though other standards in the ZDO or the city code of ordinances
may apply):
      (1)   The flag or emblem of any nation, organization of nations, state,
city, religious, fraternal (i.e., clubs or associations), civic or other public
or semipublic body;
      (2)   Merchandise and pictures or models of products or services
incorporated in a window display;
      (3)   Works of art which in no way identify a product;
      (4)   Buildings constructed to generally resemble a product; or
      (5)   Wraps, magnets, decals, and other signage on vehicles which are
parked in compliance with Section
72.10 Prohibited Activities.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission and review of application. The procedures and
requirements for submission and review of an application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Action by Building Official. The Building Official shall review and
take action on the application for a sign permit consistent with the standards
in §
162.03-11(E), Sign Permit Standards.
   (E)   Sign permit standards.  A sign permit shall be approved upon a finding
that the application complies with the standards of §
166.08, Sign Standards and all applicable Building Code requirements.
   (F)   Conditions. In approving a sign permit, the Building Official may
impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval pursuant to §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (G)   Inspection. 
       (1)   Upon completion of the sign, the applicant shall contact the
Building Official for an inspection to verify compliance with the requirements
of the sign permit and the provisions of this section and this ZDO.
      (2)   If the sign fails to pass the required inspection, the applicant
shall correct the items not in compliance within ten business days, or the sign
permit shall be deemed invalid and void. A re-inspection fee may be required
prior to any re-inspection.
   (H)   Expiration. If the work described in any sign permit has not begun
within six months from the date of issuance, the sign permit shall expire and
be void.
   (I)   Amendments. A sign permit may be amended, extended or modified only in
accordance with the procedures established for its original approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18)
   § 162.03-12 Temporary Use Permit.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
proposed temporary uses as set forth in §
164.05, Temporary Uses and Structures.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission and review of application. The procedures and
requirements for submission and review of an application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Action by Zoning Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator shall
review and take action on the application for a temporary use permit consistent
with the standards in §
162.03-12(D), Temporary Use Permit Standards.
   (C)   Temporary use permit standards. A temporary use permit shall be
approved upon a finding the temporary use, as proposed, complies with the
relevant standards in §
164.05, Temporary Uses and Structures.
   (D)   Conditions of approval. In approving a temporary use permit, the
Zoning Administrator may impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval
in accordance with §
162.02-12, Conditions of Approval.
   (E)   Expiration. A temporary use permit shall be effective beginning on the
date specified in the permit approval, and shall remain effective for the
period indicated on the permit.
   (F)   Amendment. A temporary use permit may be amended, extended, or
modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for
its original approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 27-13, passed 2-25-14)
   § 162.03-13 Zoning Permit.
   (A)   Purpose. A zoning permit shall be required in accordance with the
provisions of this section in order to ensure that proposed development
complies with the standards of this ZDO, and to otherwise protect the public
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Applicability. The requirements of this section shall apply to any
development that requires a building permit (See §
162.03-08), and any change of use.
   (C)   Zoning permit requirement. No building permit shall be issued or
change of use occur without approval of a zoning permit by the Zoning
Administrator in accordance with this section.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission and review of application. The procedures and
requirements for submission and review of an application are established in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Action by Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall
review the application in accordance with §
162.02-18, Zoning Administrator or City Official Review Procedures.
   (E)   Zoning permit standards. A zoning permit shall be approved upon a
finding the application complies with all relevant standards of this ZDO.
   (F)   Expiration. If a building permit is not issued within six months of
the date of issuance of the zoning permit, the zoning permit shall expire and
be void.
   (G)   Amendment. A zoning permit may be amended, extended, or modified only
in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its original
approval.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-14 Interpretation.
   (A)   Authority. Interpretations of all provisions of this ZDO shall be made
by the Zoning Administrator, including: interpretations of the text of this
ZDO; interpretations of the zoning district boundaries; and interpretations of
whether an unspecified use falls within a use classification, use category, or
use type allowed in a zoning district.
   (B)   Initiation. A written interpretation may be requested by the City
Council, the Planning Commission, the BZA, the DRB, any resident or landowner,
or any person having a contractual interest in land in the city.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission of request for interpretation. Before a written
interpretation shall be provided by the Zoning Administrator, a request for
interpretation shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator in writing on a
form established by the Zoning Administrator and made available to the public,
along with a non-refundable fee.
      (2)   Determination of completeness. Within five business days after a
request for interpretation has been submitted, the Zoning Administrator shall
determine whether it is complete.
         (a)   If the Zoning Administrator determines the request is not
complete, a notice shall be provided to the applicant specifying the
deficiencies. The Zoning Administrator shall take no further action on the
request for interpretation until the deficiencies are remedied. If the
applicant fails to respond to the deficiencies within 20 business days, the
request for interpretation shall be considered withdrawn.
         (b)   When the request for interpretation is determined complete, the
Zoning Administrator shall review the request and render an interpretation in
accordance with the procedures and standards of this section.
      (3)   Rendering of interpretation. After the request for interpretation
has been determined sufficient, the Zoning Administrator shall review and
evaluate the request in light of the Comprehensive Plan, this ZDO, the official
zoning map, and other relevant codes and statutes, consult with the City
Attorney and other affected city staff, and then render an interpretation.
      (4)   Form. The interpretation shall be in writing, approved as to form
by the City Attorney, and sent to the applicant by mail after the
interpretation is made by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Appeal. Any aggrieved party objecting to any other written
interpretation from the Zoning Administrator may appeal the interpretation to
the BZA in accordance with §
162.03-15, Appeals.
   (E)   Official record. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of
written interpretations that shall be available for public inspection, upon
reasonable request, during normal business hours.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 162.03-15 Appeals.
   (A)   Right of appeal. Any aggrieved party affected by a decision or
interpretation of the Zoning Administrator may appeal such decision or
interpretation to the BZA.
   (B)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Initiation. An appeal taken in accordance with this section may be
initiated by filing a written notice of appeal within ten business days of the
date of the decision or interpretation from the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Contents of appeal. The written notice of appeal shall specify the
grounds for the appeal, a statement of the improper decision or interpretation,
the date of that decision or interpretation, and all support materials related
to the decision.
      (3)   Record. Upon receipt of the written notice of appeal, the Zoning
Administrator shall transmit all the papers, documents, and other materials
relating to the decision or interpretation appealed to the BZA. These materials
shall constitute the record of the appeal.
      (4)   Scheduling of notice and hearing.  The BZA shall hear the appeal at
its next regularly scheduled meeting, or as soon as is reasonably possible.
      (5)   Hearing and decision by BZA. At the hearing, the person making the
appeal may appear in person or by agent or attorney, and shall state the
grounds for the appeal and identify any materials or evidence from the record
to support the appeal. The Zoning Administrator shall be given an opportunity
to respond, as well as any other city staff or other person the BZA deems
necessary. After the conclusion of the hearing, the BZA shall affirm, partly
affirm, modify, or reverse the decision or interpretation, based on the record,
and §
162.03-15(C), Appeal Standards.
   (C)   Appeal standards. An order, decision, determination, or interpretation
shall not be reversed or modified unless there is competent, material, and
substantial evidence in the record that the order, decision, determination, or
interpretation fails to comply with either the procedural or substantive
requirements of this ZDO, state law, or the federal or state constitutions.
   (D)   Effect of appeal.  A pending appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator
certifies to the BZA after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the BZA or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (E)   Appeal. A person having a substantial interest affected by a decision
of the BZA on appeal may appeal from the decision to the Circuit Court in and
for Charleston County by filing with the Clerk of Court a petition setting
forth plainly, fully, and distinctly why the decision is contrary to law. The
appeal shall be filed and a copy served on the city within 30 days after the
decision of the BZA is mailed. For the purposes of this subsection, person
includes persons jointly or severally aggrieved by the decision of the BZA.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 01-15, passed 3-10-15)
   § 162.03-16 Beneficial Use Determination.
   (A)   General. If after the submission and decision on the appropriate
applications for development approval or permits, a landowner in the city is of
the opinion that an economically beneficial use of the landowner's land has
been denied by the application of this ZDO, this procedure shall be used by the
applicant prior to seeking relief from the courts in order that any denial of
economically beneficial use of land may be remedied through a non-judicial
forum.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of the beneficial use determination is
that every landowner in the city enjoy an economically beneficial use of land.
It is also the purpose and intent of this section to provide for relief to the
landowner, where appropriate, from the application of this ZDO. The procedure
set forth in this section is intended to permit landowners who believe they
have been deprived of economically beneficial use of their land to apply to the
City Council for relief sufficient to provide an economically beneficial use of
the land.
   (C)   Procedure.
        (1)   Application for a beneficial use determination.  An application
for beneficial use determination may be filed by a landowner at any time with
the Zoning Administrator, along with an application fee.
      (2)   Contents of application.  The application shall be submitted in a
form established by the Zoning Administrator and made available to the public,
and shall include the following:
         (a)   The landowner's name and address;
         (b)   A legal description and the street address (when a street
address is available) of the land;
         (c)   Documentation of the date of purchase and the purchase price of
the land, and any offers to purchase the land made by any person, corporation,
or association, within the last three years;
         (d)   A description of the physical features present on the land, the
land's total acreage, the present use of the land, and the use of the land at
the time of the adoption of this ZDO;
         (e)   Evidence of any investments made by the landowner to improve the
land, the date the improvements were made, and the costs of the improvements;
         (f)   A description of what uses of land were available when the land
was purchased by the landowner;
         (g)   A description of the regulations and uses permitted which are
alleged to result in an elimination of economically beneficial use of the land;
         (h)   All appraisals, studies, and any other supporting evidence, and
any actions taken by the city related to the land;
         (i)   A description of the use which the landowner believes represents
the minimum legally required economically beneficial use of the land and all
documentation, studies, and other supporting evidence thereof.
      (3)   Determination of completeness.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine, within seven days, if
the application is complete and includes data in sufficient detail to evaluate
the application to determine if it complies with the appropriate substantive
requirements of this section.
         (b)   If the Zoning Administrator determines the application is not
complete, a written notice shall be mailed to the applicant specifying the
application's deficiencies. No further action shall be taken on the application
until the deficiencies are remedied. If the applicant fails to correct the
deficiencies within 30 days, the application shall be considered withdrawn, and
the application fee shall be refunded.
         (c)   When the application is determined complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the application's
sufficiency, and forward the application to a Hearing Officer for the
scheduling of a hearing.
      (4)   Establishment of date for hearing by hearing officer and notice.
Within 60 days after the date the application has been determined complete by
the Zoning Administrator, the City Council shall appoint a Hearing Officer to
schedule and conduct a hearing on the application in accordance with the
procedures and standards of this section.
      (5)   Hearing by Hearing Officer. At the hearing, the applicant or the
applicant's representative shall present the applicant's case and the City
Attorney shall represent the city. All evidence presented shall be under oath,
and the parties involved shall be permitted to cross-examine witnesses. The
sworn testimony and evidence shall pertain to whether the applicant has been
deprived of an economically beneficial use of the land and the standards in §
162.03-16(E), Granting of Relief, pertaining to the degree of relief needed to
provide the landowner with an economically beneficial use of the land.
      (6)   Findings of the Hearing Officer. Within 45 days of the close of the
hearing, the Hearing Officer shall prepare recommended findings of fact and a
proposed order for the consideration of the City Council. The findings and
recommendations of the Hearing Officer as to whether the land is provided
economically beneficial use shall be based on the evidence submitted and the
standards in §
162.03-16(D), Beneficial Use Standards. If the Hearing Officer finds that the
applicant has been denied economically beneficial use of the subject land, then
the Hearing Officer shall recommend a use that permits an economically
beneficial use and results in a minimum change from the regulations of these
codes as they apply to the subject land, in accordance with the standards set
forth in §
162.03-16(D), Beneficial Use Standards, and §
162.03-16(E), Granting of Relief, or other relief as is determined appropriate.
The Hearing Officer's recommended findings of facts and proposed order shall be
in writing and shall detail the basis of the conclusions from the record of the
hearing.
      (7)   Action by City Council.  The Zoning Administrator shall schedule a
hearing before the City Council within 45 days of the date the Hearing Officer
issues the recommended findings of fact and proposed order. At the hearing, the
City Council shall approve the findings of fact and proposed order of the
Hearing Officer, or may attach conditions, modify, or reverse the findings of
fact or proposed order of the Hearing Officer, based on the standards of §
162.03-16(D), Beneficial Use Standards, and §
162.03-16(E), Granting of Relief. If the City Council attaches conditions,
modifies or reverses the findings of fact or proposed order, it shall do so
only where the record of the hearing indicates that the Hearing Officer is
unsupported by the record, or that the proposed order is not in conformance
with the standards of §
162.03-16(D), Beneficial Use Standards, and §
162.03-16(E), Granting of Relief.
   (D)   Beneficial use standards. In determining if a landowner has been
deprived of an economically beneficial use of land, the Hearing Officer and
City Council shall take into account the following factors:
      (1)   Economically viable use. In making the determination of whether the
land is provided an economically beneficial use, the Hearing Officer/City
Council shall first evaluate the uses of the land as provided by this ZDO, and
the uses of land in relation to the uses provided similarly situated lands. For
the purposes of this section, ECONOMICALLY BENEFICIAL USE means the opportunity
to make a return equivalent to that which would have been received from a
conservative financial investment. Transitory economic issues shall not be
relevant to this determination.
      (2)   Diminution in value. The market value of the land, as established
by the comparable sales approach, prior to adoption this ZDO, which caused the
landowner to apply for relief shall be compared to the market value of the
land, as established by the comparable sales approach, with the regulations of
this ZDO as applied. Market value of the land prior to the adoption of this
ZDO, or any amendment thereto, shall constitute its highest and best use on the
date of purchase of the land, and a date prior to the application of these
regulations, and any other land value/appraisal information that the applicant
would like to be considered. All appraisals shall be proposed by qualified
licensed appraisers, and shall follow the best professional practices as
established by the profession. A mere diminution in market value is not
sufficient to support a determination of denial of economically beneficial use.
      (3)   External costs. The amount or nature of any subsidy that may be
required by the city, neighbors, purchasers, tenants, or the public-at-large if
the uses allowed under these Codes are modified; or any other adverse effects
on the city and its residents.
      (4)   Current state of the law. The state of the law established by the
United States Supreme Court, the federal Circuit Courts of Appeals, and the
South Carolina Supreme Court, and all other courts of competent jurisdiction,
relevant to these standards.
   (E)   Granting of relief.
      (1)   Relief. If the finding is that a landowner has been deprived
economically beneficial use of land, or is otherwise entitled to relief in
accordance with the standards of this section, relief shall be granted.
      (2)   General. In granting relief, the Hearing Officer may recommend and
the City Council may adopt any legally available incentive or measure
reasonably necessary to offset any substantial economic hardship, and may
condition such incentives or measures upon approval of specific development
plans. If there is a finding that the denial of the application would create a
substantial economic hardship, the Hearing Officer may recommend and the City
Council may consider additional relief to provide an appropriate increase in
market value or other benefit or return to the applicant sufficient to offset
the substantial economic hardship. The types of incentives that the Hearing
Officer may recommend and the City Council may consider include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   An opportunity to transfer density or cluster development on
other land;
         (b)   A waiver of permit fees;
         (c)   Development finance assistance;
         (d)   Approval of development on some portion of the land; or
         (e)   Acquisition of all or a portion of the land at market value.
      (3)   Minimum increase. In granting relief, the landowner shall be given
the minimum increase in use density/intensity or other possible concessions
from this ZDO in order to permit an economically beneficial use of the land or
a use that is determined to be required by law. The highest use, or even an
average or generally reasonable expectation, is not required or intended as the
appropriate remedy. The following guidelines shall be used for determining the
minimum economically beneficial use of land and, therefore, the amount of
relief to be granted a landowner in order to reach that minimum.
         (a)   A minimum economically beneficial use of the land should be one
that does not have any governmental subsidy attached to the long-term safe
occupation of the land, if such a subsidy is needed, then that should be
reflected by lowering the use intensity that is considered a minimum
economically viable use on a market valuation basis.
         (b)   A use common to the city, although it may not involve further
development of the land, is considered an economically viable use. Attention
shall also be given to land uses that are considered to be the lowest intensity
in the city but which uses still provide for occupation and living within the
city. These land uses, as well, shall be considered economically viable uses.
         (c)   The actual condition of the land shall be considered. The
reality of limited development potential, given the natural condition of the
land, shall not be attributed to the regulations applied to the land. If the
land is such that it cannot safely accommodate development with normal grading
and clearing practices, this fact shall lower the intensity of use that is
considered a minimum economically beneficial use.
         (d)   The potential for damages to either residents or land shall be
assessed in determining economically viable use. The need for a governmental
subsidy to future landowners shall be considered, and the cost of such
subsidies shall be deducted from the otherwise established minimum economically
beneficial use.
         (e)   Expectations shall, in general, not be considered. Only
reasonable expectations backed by investments as required by the current state
of the law, shall be considered.
         (f)   The current state of law established by the United States
Supreme Court, the federal Circuit Court of Appeals, and the South Carolina
Supreme Court, relevant to the granting of relief.
   (F)   Appeal. The decision of the City Council may be appealed to a court of
law.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 162.04 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   General. The purpose and intent of this section is to:
         (a)   Authorize development agreements to be entered into between a
developer and the city in accordance with the terms of this section;
         (b)   Encourage comprehensive planning and capital facilities
planning;
         (c)   Ensure the provision of adequate public facilities for
development; and
         (d)   Encourage the efficient use of resources, while providing
certainty in the process of obtaining development permits and reducing the
economic costs of development by providing greater regulatory certainty.
      (2)   Findings. For the reasons identified in §
160.03, Purpose and Intent, the City Council finds and determines that
development agreements may be useful to both the city and developers by
providing more regulatory certainty, establishing a schedule for development,
and assisting both developers and the city coordinate the provision of adequate
public facilities to serve development, coordinate the phasing of development,
and administer and manage efforts to maintain open space and environmentally
sensitive lands.
   (B)   Authority. The city has the authority to adopt this section for the
purpose of entering into development agreements in accordance with S.C. Code §§
6-31-10 et seq., the South Carolina Local Government Development Agreement Act.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Pre-application conference, application review, notification, and
scheduling of public hearing. The procedures and requirements for submission
and review of a request to enter into a development agreement are established
in §
162.02, Common Review Procedures.
      (2)   Review and recommendation by Planning Commission. After preparation
of a staff report, public notification, and the scheduling of the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the request
to enter into a development agreement. At the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall consider the request, the relevant support materials, the
staff report, and the testimony given at the public hearing. After the
conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a report
to the City Council recommending whether it is in the best interests of the
city to enter into the development agreement based on the goals of the city as
identified in this section, this ZDO, the Comprehensive Plan, and other
relevant and appropriate city policies. At its discretion, the Planning
Commission may defer action on its recommendation on a proposed development
agreement for the purpose of clarifying issues and information related to the
proposal.
      (3)   Review and action by City Council.  After receipt of the report
from the Planning Commission and the scheduling of a public hearing, the City
Council shall conduct a public hearing on the request to enter into a
development agreement. At the public hearing, the City Council shall consider
the application, the relevant support materials, the staff report, the report
of the Planning Commission, and the testimony given at the public hearing (if
any). After the close of the public hearing the City Council, in its sole
discretion, shall determine whether or not to enter into the development
agreement, based on such factors as whether the goals of the city, as
identified in this section, this ZDO, the Comprehensive Plan, and other
relevant and appropriate policies, is best achieved by the city entering into
the development agreement. Any development agreement entered into by the City
Council shall comply with §
162.04(D), Development Agreement Standards.
   (D)   Development agreement standards. An ordinance to enter into a
development agreement between the city and a developer, and the development
agreement, shall include the following:
      (1)   Development on at least 25 contiguous acres of high ground.
      (2)   A legal description of the land subject to the development
agreement and the names of the legal and equitable owners.
      (3)   The duration of the development agreement, which shall be
consistent with the requirements of S.C. Code §§ 6-31-10 et seq., the South
Carolina Local Government Development Agreement Act.
      (4)   The plan for the development of the land, including proposed uses,
the types of residential dwelling units, the nonresidential development
proposed, the general location of development, the densities/intensities, the
lot area, height, and other dimensional standards that will be applied to the
development, the internal traffic circulation system, how the development will
connect to external streets, greenways, trails, open space areas, recreational
facilities, environmentally sensitive lands that will be protected, a
development schedule including commencement dates and interim completion dates
of no greater than five-year intervals, and any other matter determined
appropriate for the plan for development of the land.
      (5)   The current zoning district classification of the land subject to
the development agreement, and the future zoning district classification, if it
is proposed to be different.
      (6)   A description of public facilities that will service the
development, including who shall provide such public facilities, the date any
new public facilities, if needed, will be constructed, and a schedule to verify
that public facilities will be available concurrent with the impacts of the
development on the public facilities. Any public facilities to be designed or
constructed by the developer shall be in compliance with all applicable
federal, state, and city standards to ensure the quality of the public
facilities. The standards shall include, but not be limited to, guarantees of
performance and quality, and project controls (including scheduling, quality
controls, and quality assurances). If the city is to provide any public
facilities to the development, they shall be tied to defined completion
percentages or other defined performance standards that must be met by the
developer.
      (7)   If determined appropriate by the city, an evaluation of the traffic
impact of the development proposed in the development agreement and assurance
that the impact will be mitigated.
      (8)   Where appropriate, a description of any reservations or dedications
of land for public purposes.
      (9)   Where appropriate, a description of any provisions to protect
environmentally sensitive lands as may be required or permitted in accordance
with laws in effect at the time the development agreement is entered into
between the city and the developer.
      (10)   Where appropriate, a description of any provisions to protect and
preserve historic structures.
      (11)   A description of all local development permits approved or needed
to be approved for development of the land, specifically, to include at least
the following:
         (a)   Any required amendments to this ZDO;
         (b)   Any required amendments to the official zoning map;
         (c)   Any other development permits under this ZDO;
         (d)   Any other required permissions from regional, state, or federal
governments.
      (12)   A statement and agreement by the developer that all local
development permits identified shall be obtained at the sole cost of the
developer, and that in the event that any such local development permits are
not received, no further development of the land subject to the development
agreement shall be allowed until such time as the City Council has reviewed the
matter and determined whether or not to terminate the development agreement, or
to modify it in a manner consistent with the public interest and the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (13)   A finding that the development permitted or proposed in the
development agreement is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and this ZDO.
      (14)   A statement indicating that failure of the development agreement
to address a particular permit, condition, term or restriction shall not
relieve the developer of the necessity of complying with the law governing said
permitting requirements, conditions, terms or restrictions, and that any matter
or thing required to be done under existing ordinances of the city shall not be
otherwise amended, modified or waived unless such modification, amendment or
waiver is expressly provided for in the development agreement with specific
reference to the ordinance provisions so waived, modified, or amended.
      (15)   Such conditions, terms, restrictions, or other requirements
determined to be necessary by the City Council to ensure compliance with this
ZDO and the Comprehensive Plan, and to ensure the public health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the city.
      (16)   A statement identifying which laws in force at the time of the
execution of the development agreement apply; identification of any
subsequently adopted laws which will apply; and recognition that other
subsequently adopted laws may be applied by the city in accordance with §
162.04(H) and state law.
   (E)   Execution of development agreement. A development agreement shall be
executed by all persons having legal or equitable title in the land subject to
the development agreement, including the fee simple owner and any mortgagees,
and the Mayor, on behalf of the city.
   (F)   Legislative act.  A development agreement is determined to be a
legislative act of the city in the furtherance of its powers to plan and
regulate development, and as such, shall be superior to the rights of existing
mortgagees, lien holders or other persons with a legal or equitable interest in
the land subject to the development agreement, and the obligations and
responsibilities arising thereunder on the landowner shall be superior to the
rights of said mortgagees or lien holders and shall not be subject to
foreclosure under the terms of mortgages or liens entered into or recorded
prior to the execution ond recordation of the development agreement.
   (G)   Recordation.  It shall be the responsibility of the developer, within
14 ddas after the development agreement has been executed, to record the
agreement with the Register of Mesne Conveyance. If the development agreement
is amended, cancelled, modified, extended, or revoked, the developer shall be
responsible for ensuring the amended development agreement is recorded with the
Register of Mesne Conveyance within 14 days of its execution.
   (H)   Local laws and policies governing a development agreement.  Unless
otherwise provided for by the development agreement, the laws and policies in
force at the time of the execution of the development agreement govern the
development of the land subject to the agreement, except that the city may
apply subsequently adopted laws and policies if the City Council holds a public
hearing in accordance with and determines:
      (1)   Laws not in conflict and do not prevent redevelopment. The laws are
not in conflict with the laws governing the development agreement and do not
prevent the development set forth in the development agreement;
      (2)   Laws essential to public health, safety, or welfare.  The laws are
essential to the public health, safety, or welfare, and expressly state that
they shall apply to a development that is subject to a development agreement;
      (3)   Laws anticipated in development agreement. The laws are
specifically anticipated and provided for in the development agreement;
      (4)   Substantial changes. It is demonstrated that substantial changes
have occurred in pertinent conditions existing at the time of approval of the
development agreement, which changes, if not addressed by the city, would pose
a serious threat to the public health, safety, or welfare; or
      (5)   Agreement based on substantially and materially inaccurate
information. It is demonstrated that the development agreement is based on
substantially and materially inaccurate information supplied by the developer.
   (I)   Periodic review. 
      (1)   Annual review.
         (a)   General. The Zoning Administrator shall undertake a periodic
review of the development subject to the development agreement every 12 months,
commencing one year after the effective date of the development agreement. The
developer subject to the development agreement must demonstrate good faith
compliance with the terms and conditions of the agreement, and must provide
such information as the Zoning Administrator requests.
         (b)   Zoning Administrator report of material breach. If as a result
of any annual review, the Zoning Administrator determines the developer has
committed a material breach of the terms and conditions of the development
agreement, the Zoning Administrator shall report such circumstances to the City
Council.
         (c)   City Council notifies developer of material breach.  If the City
Council concurs with the findings of the Zoning Administrator's report, the
Council shall serve written notice to the developer, within a reasonable time
after the periodic review, setting forth with reasonable particularity the
nature of the breach and the evidence supporting the findings and
determination, and provide the developer a reasonable period of time to correct
the breach.
         (d)   Remedies and corrections. If the developer fails to cure the
material breach within the time provided for correction by the City Council,
City Council may unilaterally terminate or modify the development agreement, if
it provides the developer an opportunity to either rebut the findings of
material breach, or consent to amend the development agreement to address the
material breach, as long as City Council has otherwise complied with the
provisions of the development agreement pertaining to a material breach.
   (J)   Burden/benefits. All burdens of a development agreement are binding
upon, and the benefits of the development agreement shall inure to, all
successors in interest to the parties to the development agreement.
   (K)   Amendment or cancellation of development agreement by mutual consent.
A development agreement may be amended or cancelled by mutual consent of the
parties to the development agreement, or by their successors in interest. A
development agreement may be amended, extended, or modified only in accordance
with the procedures established for its original approval.
   (L)   Effect of contrary state or federal laws. In the event that state and
federal laws are enacted after the execution of a development agreement that
are applicable to and preclude the parties compliance with the terms of the
development agreement, such development agreement shall be modified or revoked
as is necessary to comply with the relevant state or federal laws. Such
modification or revocation shall occur only after notice and a public review is
conducted in accordance with § 162.04(C), Procedure.
   (M)   Technical codes.  Development subject to a development agreement shall
comply with the requirements of all building, housing, electrical, plumbing,
and gas codes, in affect or hereafter adopted by the city.
   (N)   Enabling legislation. In the event a court of competent jurisdiction
determines S.C. Code §§ 6-31-10 et seq., or any part thereof, invalid or
unenforceable, or in the event that the South Carolina General Assembly amends
or repeals S.C. Code §§ 6-31-10 et seq., in whole or in part, any development
agreement adopted in accordance with this section shall be reviewed to
determine if such change in the state act results in a substantial impairment
of the city's rights or obligations in relation to such development agreement.
The city shall have the right to immediately terminate the development
agreement as to all parties thereto by written notice to the parties to the
agreement in the event a change in the state act results in a substantial
impairment to the city's rights in relation to such development agreement.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 163: ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
163.01   General provisions
      
163.01-01   Establishment of base and overlay zoning districts
      
163.01-02   Relationship to overlay zoning districts
      
163.01-03   Compliance with district standards
   
163.02   Residential districts
      
163.02-01   Purpose and intent
      
163.02-02   Residential districts and specific purposes
      
163.02-03   Residential standards
   
163.03   Nonresidential districts
      
163.03-01   Purpose and intent
      
163.03-02   Nonresidential districts and specific purposes
      
163.03-03   Standards
   
163.04   Planned Development District
      
163.04-01   Purpose
      
163.04-02   Procedures
      
163.04-03   Standards
      
163.04-04   Relationship to prior planned development districts
      
163.04-05   General standards for the PD District
   
163.05   Overlay district
      
163.05-01   Overlay zoning districts established
      
163.05-02   Folly Road Corridor Overlay District (FCOD)
      
163.05-03   Center Street Overlay District (CSOD)
§ 163.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   § 163.01-01 Establishment of Base and Overlay Zoning Districts.
   The following base and overlay zoning districts are established.
TABLE 163.01: BASE AND OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
ABBREVIATION DISTRICT NAME
TABLE 163.01: BASE AND OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
ABBREVIATION DISTRICT NAME
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
MIR          Marine Island Residential
RSF          Single-Family Residential
RTF          Two-Family Residential
RMF          Multi-Family Residential
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
DC           Downtown Commercial
IC           Island Commercial
MC           Marine Commercial
CC           Corridor Commercial
CN           Conservation
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
PD           Planned Development
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
CSOD         Center Street Overlay
FCOD         Folly Road Corridor Overlay
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 013-24, passed 6-11-24)
   § 163.01-02 Relationship to Overlay Zoning Districts.
   Lands within the city may be classified into one of the zoning districts
established in
Table 163.01, Base and Overlay Zoning Districts Established, and also the
overlay districts set forth in §
163.05, Overlay Districts. Where land is classified into an overlay district as
well as a base zoning district, the standards governing development in the
overlay district shall apply in addition to the standards governing development
in the underlying base zoning district. In the event of an express conflict
between the standards governing a base zoning district and those governing an
overlay district, the more restrictive standard shall control.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 163.01-03 Compliance with District Standards.
   No land within the city shall be developed except in accordance with the
zoning district regulations of
Chapter 163: Zoning Districts, the use standards of
Chapter 164: Use Standards, the dimensional standards of
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards, the development standards in
Chapter 166: Development Standards, the standards in
Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards, and all other applicable regulations of
this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 163.02 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   § 163.02-01 Purpose and Intent.
   The residential zoning districts contained in this section are established
and intended to provide a comfortable, healthy, safe, and pleasant environment
in which to live. More specifically, they are intended to:
   (A)   Provide appropriately located lands for residential development.
Provide appropriately located lands for residential development in accordance
with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Light, air, and privacy. Ensure adequate light, air, privacy, and open
space for each dwelling;
   (C)   Protect residents from harmful effects. Protect residents from the
harmful effects of noise, traffic congestion, undue concentration of
population, and other significant adverse environmental effects;
   (D)   Provision of public services. Ensure the provision of public services
including roadway capacity, park land, or other public services; and
   (E)   Provide appropriately located land for commercial development. Provide
appropriately located areas in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan for
employment, shopping, and recreational activities, as needed by the residents
of the city, while ensuring that any negative aspects of development is
minimized on abutting residential lands.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 163.02-02 Residential Districts and Specific Purposes.
   (A)   Single-Family Residential (RSF). The RSF District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is single-family detached
residential development at moderate densities. The regulations of this district
are intended to prohibit any use that substantially interferes with the
development of single-family detached dwellings and that is detrimental to the
quiet residential nature of the district. Complementary uses customarily found
in residential zoning districts, such as community centers, religious
institutions under 3,500 square feet in area, private docks, parks, and
playgrounds are permitted. Short term rentals are allowed subject to the
requirements of
Chapter 117 of the city code of ordinances. Accessory dwelling units are not
permitted. The minimum lot area for development is 10,500 square feet and the
maximum density allowed is four dwelling units per acre. Maximum lot coverage
in the district is 35% of a lots high ground area.
   (B)   Two-Family Residential (RTF).  The RTF District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is single-family detached and two-
family residential development at moderate densities. The regulations of this
district are intended to prohibit any use that interferes with the quiet
residential nature of the district. Complementary uses customarily found in
residential zoning districts, including religious institutions under 3,500
square feet in area, civic institutions less than 5,000 square feet in area,
community centers, private docks, parks, and playgrounds are permitted. Short
term rentals are allowed subject to the requirements of
Chapter 117 of the city code of ordinances. Accessory dwelling units are not
permitted. The minimum lot area for development is 10,500 square feet and the
maximum density allowed is eight units per acre. Duplex dwellings located upon
a single lot may be detached structures. Detached units may be located on
individual lots, provided the newly created lots extend no more than five feet
from the building envelope. Maximum lot coverage in the district is 35% of a
lots high ground area.
   (C)   Multi-Family Residential (RMF). The RMF district is established and
intended to encourage a wide range of medium and high density housing types,
especially multiple family development, although single-family dwellings and
two-family dwellings are also allowed. In addition to the range of
complementary uses typically found in residential zoning districts, limited
neighborhood-serving nonresidential uses (e.g., day cares, parking lots, and
Type I retail uses) are permitted as special exception uses (See Table 164.01,
Table of Allowed Uses), but accessory dwelling units are prohibited. Short term
rentals are allowed subject to the requirements of
Chapter 117 of the city code of ordinances. The minimum lot area for all
permitted uses (except townhouses) is 10,500 square feet. Duplex dwellings and
multi-family units located upon a single lot may be detached structures.
Detached units may be located on individual lots, provided the newly created
lots extend no more than five feet from the exterior walls of the proposed
structure and the development includes the minimum open space set-aside
required in §
166.03, Open Space Standards. Multi-family development shall include at least
3,500 square feet of lot area per dwelling unit, but in no instance shall
multi-family development exceed 12 units per acre. Maximum lot coverage in the
district is 35% of a sites total high ground.
   (D)   Marsh Inland Residential (MR). The MR District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is single-family detached
residential development with minimal impact on sensitive landscapes. The
regulations of this district are intended to prohibit any use that
substantially interferes with the development of single-family detached
dwellings and that is detrimental to the quiet residential, scenic, and
environmentally sensitive nature and of the district. Complementary uses
customarily found in residential zoning districts such private recreational
docks and accessory structures. Short term rentals are prohibited. Accessory
dwelling units are not permitted. The minimum lot area for development is
14,500 square feet and the maximum density allowed is three dwelling units per
acre. Maximum lot coverage in the district is 30% of a lot’s high ground area.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 26-16, passed 1-10-17; Am. Ord. 09-17,
passed 7-11-17; Am. Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-9-19)
   § 163.02-03 Residential Standards.
   
Table 163.02, Use Regulations and Development Standards in the Residential
Districts, indicates the location of standards in this ZDO related to allowable
uses, density limitations, dimensional standards, development standards, and
subdivision standards for the residential districts.
 
TABLE 163.02: USE REGULATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS
TYPE OF STANDARD                             LOCATION IN THIS ZDO
Allowable uses                               Chapter 164: Use Standards
(principal, accessory, temporary)
Density/intensity/dimensional standards
(density, lot coverage, area, width, yards,  Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards
height)
Development standards
(tree protection, landscaping, open space,   Chapter 166: Development Standards
environmental protection, design standards,
parking, signage, fences and walls, lighting
Subdivision standards                        Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards
(lots, blocks, streets, sidewalks, drainage)
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 163.03 NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   § 163.03-01 Purpose and Intent.
   The nonresidential zoning districts are established for the general purpose
of ensuring there are lands in the city that provide a wide range of office,
retail, service, and related uses to meet household and business needs, and
more specifically to:
   (A)   Provide appropriately located lands for nonresidential uses consistent
with the city's Comprehensive Plan. Provide appropriately located lands for the
full range of business uses needed by the city's residents, businesses, and
workers, in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Provide employment opportunities. Provide employment opportunities
close to home for residents of the city and surrounding communities;
   (C)   Accommodate resort uses.  Provide adequate land to accommodate resort
and vacation-related uses;
   (D)   Enable a mix of residential and nonresidential uses. Permit
residential units above ground-floor nonresidential uses in commercial
districts; and
   (E)   Preserve the unique character of the nonresidential areas on Folly
Island; and
   (F)   Minimize impact of nonresidential development. Minimize the impact of
nonresidential development on sensitive environmental lands.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 11-18, passed 11-13-18)
   § 163.03-02 Nonresidential Districts and Specific Purposes.
   (A)   Downtown Commercial (DC).
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The DC District is established as a commercial
focal point for Folly Beach characterized by a vibrant mix of retail, service,
restaurant, entertainment, cultural, governmental, civic, residential, and
visitor-service uses unique to the city. The district is intended to:
         (a)   Protect and enhance the unique aesthetic and architectural
character of Folly Beach's downtown;
         (b)   Allow for a diverse mix of business, office, institutional,
recreational, and residential uses above street-level;
         (c)   Encourage pedestrian-friendly development;
         (d)   Require new development that is consistent with the existing
template of downtown development; and
         (e)   Promote the economic and development potential of Folly Beach
while also protecting its unique character.
      (2)   District-specific standards. In addition to the other standards in
this ZDO, development in the DC District shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Mixed-use structures in the DC District shall not include
residential uses on the ground floor of the structure.
         (b)   Commercial uses on ground floor shall not be converted to a
residential use.
         (c)   Nonconforming lots of record lawfully established on or before
April 13, 1999 may be developed in accordance with the standards in §
168.04-01(C), Lots in the DC and IC Districts.
         (d)   Residential uses located above a nonresidential use in the DC
District shall not exceed two stories or 34 feet above the top of the first
living floor surface.
         (e)   Lot coverage is limited to a maximum of 50% of the lots high
ground area.
         (f)   Except where exempted by the Design Review Board, new
development on lots in the DC district fronting Center Street shall be built to
the edge of the sidewalk or right-of-way edge.
         (g)   New development in the "A" Flood Zone shall be:
            1.   Elevated and enclose the entire perimeter of the structure
below the base flood elevation with solid walls which are hydrostatically
vented and aesthetically incorporated into the overall design of the structure;
or
            2.   Floodproofed in lieu of elevating.
         (h)   New development on lots fronting Center Street located in the
"V" Flood Zone shall be elevated and shall enclose the entire perimeter of the
structure below the base flood elevation with solid breakaway walls which are
aesthetically incorporated into the overall design of the structure.
         (i)   Duplex dwellings and multi family units located upon a single
lot may be detached structures. Detached units may be located on individual
lots, provided the newly created lots extend no more than five feet from the
exterior walls of the proposed structure.
         (j)    Short term rentals are allowed subject to the requirements of
Chapter 117 of the city code of ordinances.
   (B)   Island Commercial (IC).  
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The IC district is established to provide for a
“resort center” within the city that provides a variety of visitor-oriented
business services, including visitor lodging, visitor attractions, and support
facilities. The district is intended to accommodate visitor-oriented structures
such as hotels, bed and breakfast inns, and time share units. Indoor and
outdoor recreational facilities, parking, and low-intensity retail uses are
also appropriate. This district is intended to foster pedestrian access
particularly along the beachfront, in order to minimize traffic impacts to
surrounding residential areas. Short term rentals are allowed subject to the
requirements of
Chapter 117  of the city code of ordinances. Multi-family dwellings, accessory
dwelling units, and intense commercial uses are prohibited. The minimum lot
area for residential uses is 10,500 square feet and 5,250 square feet for all
other uses. Duplex dwellings located upon a single lot may be detached
structures. Detached units may be located on individual lots, provided the
newly created lots extend no more than five feet from the exterior walls of the
proposed structure. Lot coverage is limited to 35% of the lots high ground
area.
      (2)   District-specific standards.
         (a)   Mixed-use structures in the IC District shall not include
residential uses on the ground floor of the structure.
         (b)   Commercial uses on ground floor shall not be converted to a
residential use.
         (c)   Nonconforming lots of record lawfully established on or before
April 13, 1999 may be developed in accordance with the standards in §
168.04-01(C), Lots in the DC and IC Districts.
         (d)   All development in the IC District shall not exceed two stories
or 40 feet above the top of the first living floor surface.
   (C)   Marine Commercial (MC). The MC District is established to recognize
areas within the city where, due to proximity to navigable waterways,
commercial marine related-activity takes place. A full range of marine- related
uses (e.g., docks and marinas), major and minor utilities, and outdoor storage
facilities are appropriate uses in addition to limited residential uses,
institutional uses, and limited retail uses. Short term rentals are allowed
subject to the requirements of
Chapter 117  of the city code of ordinances. Applications to amend the official
zoning map to establish or expand the MC District are prohibited.
   (D)   Corridor Commercial (CC). The CC District is established and intended
to provide for a wide variety of general retail and high intensity residential
and nonresidential uses located along the Folly Road corridor north of the
Folly Creek Bridge, and to maintain scenic vistas along this corridor. The CC
District is intended to accommodate the largest and most intense form of retail
in the city (those uses greater than 10,000 square feet). Visitor-oriented
services including hotels and indoor and outdoor recreational facilities are
also permitted. Short term rentals are allowed subject to the requirements of
Chapter 117 of the city code of ordinances. Maximum lot coverage is limited to
35% of a lots high ground, and maximum building heights are limited to 34 feet
above the top of the first living floor surface. Duplex dwellings and
multifamily units located upon a single lot may be detached structures.
Detached units may be located on individual lots, provided the newly created
lots extend no more than five feet from the exterior walls of the proposed
structure and the development includes the minimum open space set-aside
required in §
166.03, Open Space Standards.
   (E)   Conservation (CN).  The CN District is established in accordance with
the Comprehensive Plan to preserve sensitive marshland ecosystems and prevent
flood hazards. Land in the CN District is intended to encourage the maintenance
of wildlife preserves, scenic areas, or watershed conservation areas, to the
maximum extent practicable. Parks, public docks, private recreational docks, or
public piers are allowable uses.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 26-16, passed 1-10-17; Am. Ord. 09-17,
passed 7-11-17; Am. Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 01-19, passed 4-9-19;
Am. Ord. 11-21, passed 5-11-21)
   § 163.03-03 Standards.
   
Table 163.03, Use Regulations and Development Standards in the Nonresidential
Districts, indicates the location of standards in this ZDO related to allowable
uses, density limitations, dimensional standards, development standards, and
subdivision standards for the nonresidential districts.
 
TABLE 163.03: USE REGULATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN THE NONRESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS
TYPE OF STANDARD                             LOCATION IN THIS ZDO
Allowable uses                               Chapter 164: Use Standards
(principal, accessory, temporary)
Density/intensity/dimensional standards
(density, lot coverage, area, width, yards,  Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards
height)
Development standards
(tree protection, landscaping, open space,   Chapter 166: Development Standards
environmental protection, design standards,
parking, signage, fences and walls, lighting
Subdivision standards                        Chapter 167: Subdivision Standards
(lots, blocks, streets, sidewalks, drainage)
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 163.04 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   § 163.04-01 Purpose.
   The Planned Development (PD) District is established for the purpose of
encouraging innovative land planning and site design concepts that support a
high quality of life and that achieve a high quality of development,
environmental sensitivity, energy efficiency, and other city goals by:
   (A)   Increase flexibility. Reducing or diminishing the uniform design that
results from the strict application of zoning and development standards that
are designed primarily for individual lots;
   (B)   Freedom to provide access, light, open space, and amenities. Allowing
greater freedom in selecting the means to provide access, open space, and
design amenities;
   (C)   Freedom to provide mix of uses and housing types.  Allowing greater
freedom in providing a well-integrated mix of residential and nonresidential
land uses throughout the development and on individual lots, including a mix of
housing types, lot sizes, and densities;
   (D)   Provide greater opportunity for more efficient land use patterns.
Providing for an efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of
utilities and streets and thereby lowering development and housing costs;
   (E)   Promote quality design and environmentally sensitive development
through site characteristics.  Promoting quality design and environmentally
sensitive development by allowing development to take advantage of special site
characteristics, locations, and uses; and
   (F)   Encourage quality design through density increases. In specific
instances, encouraging quality design and environmentally sensitive development
by allowing increases in residential density or nonresidential square footage
when such increases can be justified by superior design or the provision of
additional amenities such as public open space.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 163.04-02 Procedures.
   Prior to development, all planned development districts shall be reviewed
and approved or approved with conditions in accordance with §
162.03-02, Planned Development.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 163.04-03 Standards.
   All planned development districts shall comply with the general standards of
§
163.04-03, General Standards for the PD District.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 163.04-04 Relationship to Prior Planned Development Districts.
   Lands designated as Planned Development District (PDD) on the official
zoning map on March 23, 2010 are subject to the standards and conditions
included within the previously adopted master plan related to their approval.
They may proceed with development in accordance with §
160.09, Transitional Provisions. If approval of the PDD expires, the provisions
of this ZDO shall apply.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 163.04-05 General Standards for the PD District.
   (A)   Development parameters. Prior to the approval of a PD zoning district
designation, the Planning Commission shall recommend and the City Council shall
find the application for the PD zoning district designation, the required PD
Master Plan, and the PD Terms and Conditions comply with the following
standards.
      (1)   Master Plan. The PD Master Plan:
         (a)   Is prepared by a licensed engineer, architect, landscape
architect, or land planner;
         (b)   Includes a statement of planning objectives for the site;
         (c)   Identifies the general location of land uses within individual
development areas or development pods, and the mix of land uses;
         (d)   Calculates the acreage, number, type, and mix of land uses,
including the total number of residential units, residential densities, and
nonresidential intensities within each development area or development pod, and
the total number, type, and mix of land uses for the entire PD Master Plan;
         (e)   Identifies the general location, amount, and type (whether
designated for active or passive recreation) of open space;
         (f)   Identifies the location of environmentally sensitive lands,
wildlife habitat, and riparian areas;
         (g)   Identifies the on-site transportation circulation system
including all public and private streets, existing or projected transit
corridors, pedestrian and bicycle pathways, and how such on-site improvements
will connect with existing adjacent city facilities;
         (h)   Identifies on-site potable water and wastewater facilities, how
they will connect to city systems, and how construction will occur in
accordance with city ordinances; and
         (i)   Identifies the general location of all public facility sites
serving the development, including transportation, potable water, wastewater,
parks, fire, police, EMS, stormwater management, and schools.
      (2)   In accordance with the Comprehensive Plan. The PD zoning district
designation and the PD Master Plan are in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan.
      (3)   Compatibility with adjacent existing or proposed development.
Development along the perimeter of a PD District is compatible with adjacent
existing or proposed development. If appropriate, in cases where there are
issues of compatibility, the PD Master Plan shall provide for transition areas
at the edges of the PD District that provide for appropriate buffering or
ensure a complementary character of uses. Complementary character shall be
identified based on densities/intensities, lot size and dimensions, building
height, building mass and scale, hours of operation, exterior lighting, and
location of service areas.
      (4)   Development phasing plan. If there are phases of development
proposed for the PD, a development phasing plan shall be provided for the PD
Master Plan that identifies the general sequence or phases in which the land is
proposed to be developed, including how residential and nonresidential
development is timed, how infrastructure (public and private) and open space is
provided and timed, and how development is coordinated with the city's capital
improvements program. The phasing plan shall be established at the time of
approval of the PD Master Plan. It is permissible for a development phasing
plan to include only one phase.
      (5)   On-site public facilities.  The PD Master Plan shall establish the
responsibility of the landowner/developer to make any on-site or other public
improvements as appropriate. The PD Master Plan shall ensure that impacts from
the PD Master Plan are addressed for the following:
         (a)   The PD Master Plan shall establish the general location of on-
site potable water facilities and how they will connect to the city's potable
water system consistent with city laws, and how dedication of land, easements,
or on-site construction of all potable water facilities/improvements will occur
in a manner that complies with city laws.
         (b)   The PD Master Plan shall establish the general location of on-
site wastewater facilities and, as appropriate, how they will connect to the
city's or other wastewater lines and mains and sewer interceptor lines
consistent with city laws, and how dedication of land, easements, or on-site
construction of all wastewater facilities/improvements will occur in a manner
that complies with city laws.
         (c)   The PD Master Plan shall establish the design of public streets
within the planned development in ways that comply with all applicable city
standards. Right-of-way, pavement widths, and street widths may be reduced by
the City Council where it is found that:
            1.   The PD Master Plan provides for separation of vehicular,
pedestrian, and bicycle traffic;
            2.   Access for emergency service vehicles is not substantially
impaired;
            3.   Adequate off-street parking is provided for the uses proposed;
and
            4.   Adequate space for public utilities is provided within the
right-of-way.
         (d)   The PD Master Plan shall establish the general location and
function of on-site stormwater management facilities in accordance with city,
state, and federal regulations.
         (e)   The PD Master Plan shall establish the responsibility of the
subdivider/owner for providing right-of-way and easements and for constructing
on-site facilities for all other infrastructure located on the site of the
proposed planned development, including but not limited to police facilities,
fire facilities, and EMS facilities. The PD Master Plan shall also establish
the responsibility of the subdivider/owner to make any other improvements as
required by city ordinances, and, if requested by the city, to dedicate these
improvements to the city in a form that complies with city laws.
      (6)   Off-site public facilities. The PD Master Plan shall include a
fire, police, and EMS component that demonstrate adequate facilities for fire
protection, police protection, and EMS services is available or will be
available at the time development occurs to accommodate development proposed in
the PD Master Plan.
      (7)   Planned Development Terms and Conditions. Concurrent with the
approval of the adopting ordinance for the PD zoning district designation and
the PD Master Plan, a statement of PD Terms and Conditions shall be established
binding the PD to any conditions placed in the adopting ZDO and PD Master Plan.
The PD Terms and Conditions shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The PD Master Plan, including any PD Standards;
         (b)   Conditions related to the approval of the PD Master Plan;
         (c)   Conditions related to the form and design of development in the
PD Master Plan;
         (d)   Provisions addressing how transportation, potable water,
wastewater, stormwater management, fire/police/EMS, parks, schools, and any
other relevant public facilities will be provided to accommodate the
development proposed for the PD Master Plan;
         (e)   Provisions related to environmental protection and monitoring;
and
         (f)   Any other provisions the City Council determines is relevant and
appropriate to the implementation of the PD.
   (B)   Minimum area. A PD District shall be a minimum of three acres in area.
The City Council may waive this minimum area requirement (following a
recommendation of the Planning Commission), based on a finding that creative
site planning through rezoning to a PD District is necessary to address a
physical development constraint, protect sensitive natural areas, or promote a
community goal when more conventional development or subdivision would be
difficult or undesirable given the constraints on development.
   (C)   Uses. The uses allowed in a PD District are identified in
Table 164.01, Table of Allowed Uses. Allowed uses are subject to any use
regulations applicable to the PD District. A mix of different residential
dwelling types in close proximity to one another is encouraged. Commercial uses
serving the development are also allowed.
   (D)   Maximum density. The maximum density in a PD District shall not exceed
those authorized in the base district(s) being replaced by the PD District
designation.
   (E)   Dimensional standards. The dimensional standards of
Table 165.01, Table of Dimensional Standards, do not apply to the PD District,
but all proposed dimensional standards shall be established in the PD Master
Plan. Dimensional standards shall include the following:
      (1)   Minimum dimensional requirements. The minimum lot area, minimum lot
width, minimum and maximum setbacks, maximum lot coverage, maximum height for
development, maximum individual building size, and floor area ratios.
      (2)   Setbacks from adjoining residential uses. Minimum setbacks from
adjoining residential development or residential zoning districts.
   (F)   Development standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading. All development in a PD District
shall comply with the standards of §
166.06, Off-Street Parking and Loading, unless they are modified in the PD
Master Plan in ways that are consistent with the general intent and purpose for
the PD District and this section. Any modifications to the standards of §
166.06, Off-Street Parking and Loading, shall be specified in a Master Parking
Plan included as part of the PD Master Plan. The Master Parking Plan may
include parking alternatives which reduce the number of required off-street
parking spaces by a specific amount through alternative parking strategies
including shared parking, deferred parking, off-site parking, or other parking
alternatives identified in §
166.06, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
      (2)   Tree protection.  All development in a PD District is subject to
the retention of the existing tree canopy, protection of grand and landmark
trees, tree protection during construction, and all other standards of §
166.01, Tree Protection.
      (3)   Landscaping standards.  All development in the PD District is
subject to the general requirements for landscaping in §
166.02, Landscaping Standards, except that uses internal to the PD District
shall not be required to provide a perimeter buffer, or if they are modified in
the PD Master Plan in ways that are consistent with the general intent and
purpose for the PD District and this section. Any modifications to the
standards of §
166.02, Landscaping Standards, shall be specified in an alternative landscaping
plan included as part of the PD Master Plan. Required marsh and dune buffers
(See §§
166.04-03 and
166.04-04) may not be reduced as part of the approval of any PD District.
      (4)   Fencing standards. All development in the PD District shall comply
with the standards of §
166.09, Fences and Walls, unless they are modified in the PD Master Plan in
ways that are consistent with the general intent and purpose for the PD-
R District and this section. Any modifications to the standards of §
166.09, Fences and Walls, shall be consistent with the general intent and
purpose of the PD District, and shall be specified in a Master Fencing Plan
included as part of the PD Master Plan.
      (5)   Open space standards. 
         (a)   All development in a PD District shall comply with the standards
of §
166.03, Open Space Standards, which shall not be reduced as part of the
approval of any PD District.
         (b)   In cases where a PD includes commercial or other nonresidential
development, the required percentage of open space set-aside shall be
calculated based on the total amount of land used for residential,
nonresidential, or mixed-use purposes, respectively.
         (c)   The open space shall be configured, to the maximum extent
practicable, to conserve environmentally sensitive lands, protect unique site
features and resources (i.e., large trees and significant wooded areas,
wildlife habitat, and scenic views), and provide contiguity with other open
space, both on- and off-site.
         (d)   Open space set-aside areas contiguous with a public park or
other public recreation land shall not include structures within 50 feet of the
park or recreation land boundary.
         (e)   The City Council may accept open space set-asides for dedication
to the city on a case-by-case basis.
      (6)   Exterior lighting. All development in a PD District shall comply
with the exterior lighting standards of §
166.10, Exterior Lighting, unless they are modified in the PD Master Plan in
ways that are consistent with the general intent and purpose for the PD
District and this section. Any modifications to the standards of §
166.10, Exterior Lighting, shall be specified in a Master Lighting Plan
included as part of the PD Master Plan.
      (7)   Design standards.  All single- and two-family development in a PD
District shall comply with or exceed the standards of §
166.05-03, Single- and Two-Family Design Standards.
      (8)   Signage. Unless otherwise specifically modified by a PD Master
Plan, the signage in a PD District shall comply with the standards of §
166.08, Sign Standards. Any modifications to the standards of §
166.08 shall be specified in a Master Sign Plan included as part of the PD
Master Plan. The Master Sign Plan shall establish a design theme that is found
to be more consistent with the unique characteristics of the site and the scale
and character of the surrounding area, as well as a uniform facade and design
detail plan for all signs to be used in the development. At a minimum, the
Master Sign Plan shall specify colors, materials, aesthetic balance and
composition, height, width, area, placement, typeface, and the use of any
symbols, designs, or logos.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 163.05 OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   § 163.05-01 Overlay Zoning Districts Established.
   The overlay zoning district requirements of this section shall be applied in
addition to any applicable base zoning district requirements. Except where
specifically provided in this chapter, variances from the overlay zoning
district standards shall not be granted.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 012-22, passed 6-14-22)
   § 163.05-02 Folly Road Corridor Overlay District (FCOD).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The intent of these provisions is to create a
corridor that is well-planned and attractive through the implementation of land
use and design standards that are consistent with adjacent jurisdictions and
the utilization of traffic safety measures and access management for vehicles
and pedestrians to ensure safe and efficient traffic movement. The portion of
the FCOD located in the City of Folly Beach is intended to provide a natural
scenic open space before entering the City of Folly Beach by preserving the
marsh views and vistas of this area.
   (B)   Location. The FCOD extends from Tatum Road in the Town of James Island
south to the Folly River Bridge in the City of Folly Beach, as depicted on the
official zoning map.
   (C)   Conflict. The FCOD zoning district regulations of this chapter apply
in addition to the underlying (base) zoning district regulations. In case of
conflict between the FCOD regulations and other regulations in this ZDO, the
most restrictive regulations shall control.
   (D)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to all uses
within the FCOD except single-family residential development.
   (E)   District-specific standards. All development (except single-family
residential uses) within the FCOD shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Streetscape buffer along Folly Road.
         (a)   Except when reduced in accordance with this section, all
development shall maintain a 25-foot vegetated streetscape buffer from the
Folly Road right-of-way.
         (b)   Required buffers from the Folly Road right-of-way may be reduced
by the DRB when:
            1.   The principal structure is placed within the area occupied by
the perimeter buffer; and
            2.   All off-street surface parking is placed to the side or rear
of the structure.
         (c)   Fencing may be required to screen adjacent residential uses.
      (2)   Perimeter buffers. All development shall comply with the perimeter
buffers in §
166.02, Landscaping Standards, and shall maintain a 25-foot vegetated buffer
from marshlands, wetlands, and other sensitive natural features. Vegetated
buffers between uses and environmental features shall be configured in
accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Existing vegetation shall be maintained to the maximum extent
practicable;
         (b)   New plantings shall consist of native or naturalized species;
         (c)   At least 50% of newly-planted understory screening material
shall be evergreen;
         (d)   Stormwater conveyance measures are allowed within buffer areas
only in cases where existing trees are not affected.
      (3)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures shall be limited to
nonresidential principal uses, and shall not exceed 25% of the principal
structure’s heated square footage.
   (F)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   Maximum building height shall be limited to 34 feet above the top
of the first living floor surface.
      (2)   Maximum height of multifamily housing shall be limited to 24 feet
above the top of the first living floor surface.
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 30% of a lot’s high ground
area.
      (4)   Development shall be setback at least 25 feet from the SCDES
critical line.
   (G)   Sign standards. Freestanding signs shall be monument style, limited to
one per street frontage, and shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Maximum sign face area shall be limited to 40 square feet for
individual signs and 100 square feet for shared shopping center signs;
      (2)   Signage shall have a maximum of two faces per sign;
      (3)   Sign height for individual signs shall be limited to a maximum of
six feet. Sign height for shared shopping center signs shall be limited to a
maximum of ten feet; and
      (4)   Signs may not be internally illuminated.
      (5)   Electronic message boards shall be prohibited, except those by a
duly constituted governmental body and approved by City Council.
   (H)   Pedestrian circulation. New development shall meet the sidewalk and
pedestrian circulation standards in the ZDO as well as the following:
      (1)   Grade-separated pedestrian walkways shall be provided from the
public sidewalk system to a principal structures primary entrance;
      (2)   Pedestrian walkways shall be designed and located in a manner that
does not require pedestrians to walk through parking lots;
      (3)   A separated 12-foot multi-use path along frontage of the parcel
shall be installed. Right of way buffers may be reduced to accommodate the
provision of a multi-use path. The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to
reduce the width of the required multi-use path if conflicts with trees,
utilities, or other conditions exist that would render the required width
unfeasible.
   (I)   Vehicle access. New development shall meet the vehicle access
standards in the ZDO as well as the following:
      (1)   All parcels in this overlay zoning district with a future or
current residential land use designation are allowed one curb cut per 150 feet
of road frontage; all other commercial uses are allowed one cut every 250 feet.
      (2)   Proposed new access drives shall be a minimum distance of 75 feet
from a street intersection measured from the edge of the intersecting roadway
to the beginning of the driveway radius. These minimum spacing requirements
will be increased if a right turn deceleration lane is required and shall equal
the length of the turn lane and taper plus an additional distance of 50 feet.
      (3)   All applications for development of non-residential uses shall
include a suitable access management plan demonstrating that the driveway
separation requirements can be met. The following techniques may be employed to
achieve this result, but the burden of accomplishing the desired effect remains
with the developer of the property:
         (a)   Aggregation of parcels;
         (b)   Parallel frontage or backage roads;
         (c)   Shared curb cuts between adjoining properties; and
         (d)   Shared access easements between parcels.
   (J)   Traffic study. A traffic impact analysis shall be required in all
instances in which the proposed development area exceeds three acres or
generates 100 or more peak hour vehicle trips. Such traffic impact shall be
prepared by a qualified professional and shall meet the standards required by
Charleston County for properties in the FCOD.
   (K)   Coordination with other jurisdictions. A letter of coordination from
the Town of James Island, City of Charleston, and/or City of Folly Beach shall
be a required part of all land development applications, dependent upon overlay
zoning district area. The purpose of the letter of coordination is to ensure
that each jurisdiction is aware of proposed development and that there is
consistency in land use, density/intensity and dimensional standards, and
design and development standards adopted by the jurisdictions. Coordination
with applicable town, city or county: Council, Planning Commission, Staff,
Design Review Board or other review, recommendation, or decision making bodies
may be required.
   (L)   The following uses are prohibited in the FCOD:
      (1)   Tattoo parlors;
      (2)   Vehicle storage;
      (3)   Boat/RV storage;
      (4)   Hotels and motels;
      (5)   Shooting ranges;
      (6)   Automobile dealerships;
      (7)   Billboards; and
      (8)   Gun shops.
   (M)   The following uses are allowed as special exceptions in the FCOD:
      (1)   Liquor, beer, or wine sales;
      (2)   Bar or lounge;
      (3)   Vehicle repair;
      (4)   Fast food restaurant; and
      (5)   Indoor recreation.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-14, passed 3-11-14; Am. Ord. 02-17,
passed 4-11-17; Am. Ord. 15-20, passed 12-8-20; Am. Ord. 11-21, passed 5-11-21;
Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
§ 163.05-03 Center Street Overlay District (CSOD).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The intent of these provisions is to regulate land
use along Center Street in a manner that is consistent with historical
patterns. Properties subject to the overlay have different access availability
and are generally smaller than other lots in the Downtown Commercial District.
Existing development is primarily at grade and adjacent to the right-of-way.
   (B)   Location. The CSOD extends from the Folly River Bridge to the
intersection of Arctic Avenue and Center Street. It extends from Center Street
to the ten-foot alleys running behind and parallel to Center Street to the east
and west of Center Street.
   (C)   Conflict. The CSOD zoning district regulations of this chapter apply
in addition to the underlying (base) zoning district regulations. In case of
conflict between the CSOD regulations and other regulations in this ZDO, the
CSOD regulations shall control.
   (D)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to all
parcels within the CSOD.
   (E)   District-specific standards. All development within the CSOD shall
comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Lot coverage exceptions for public and semi-public areas adjacent
to Center Street. Any impervious surfaces used as a porch, dining area,
courtyards, deck, or similar public or semipublic space adjacent to the Center
Street right-of-way shall not be counted when calculating the total amount of
impervious lot coverage of the development.
      (2)   Standalone residential uses. New residential development must
include a nonresidential use on the ground floor. Residential density shall be
controlled by the base district regulations for the Downtown Commercial
District in §
165.01-02.
      (3)   New development required to be built at grade. New buildings in the
CSOD located in an A Zone shall be constructed at grade and flood proofed
rather than elevated.
      (4)   Maximum height. The maximum height of new structures shall be
limited to 34 feet from grade and two stories. Rooftop decks, whether covered
or uncovered, shall constitute a full story for the purposes of measuring
building height within the district.
      (5)   No parking required. Except for residential use above a non-
residential use, tourist accommodation use, and short term rental use, no
parking shall be required for development within the CSOD. Parking for
residential use over a non-residential use, tourist accommodation use, and
short term rental use shall be provided as required by §
166.06-04.
      (6)   No setback required. There shall be no side, front, or rear
setbacks required.
(Ord. 012-22, passed 6-14-22; Am. Ord. 002-23, passed 5-9-23)
CHAPTER 164: USE STANDARDS
Section
   
164.01   Table of uses
      
164.01-01   Explanation of table
   
164.02   Use classifications, categories, and types
      
164.02-01   General
      
164.02-02   Residential use categories
      
164.02-03   Institutional use categories
      
164.02-04   Commercial use categories
   
164.03   Use-specific standards
      
164.03-01   Residential uses
      
164.03-02   Institutional uses
      
164.03-03   Commercial uses
   
164.04   Accessory uses and structures
      
164.04-01   Purpose
      
164.04-02   General development and operational standards
      
164.04-03   Table of permitted accessory uses
      
164.04-04   Prohibited accessory uses
      
164.04-05   Standards for specific accessory uses and structures
   
164.05   Temporary uses and structures
      
164.05-01   Purpose
      
164.05-02   Table of allowed temporary uses and structures
      
164.05-03   Prohibited temporary uses
      
164.05-04   Temporary use permits
      
164.05-05   General standards for all temporary uses and structures
      
164.05-06   Specific regulations for certain temporary uses and structures
§ 164.01 TABLE OF USES.
   Table 164.01, Table of Allowed Uses, sets forth the uses allowed within the
base zoning districts.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 164.01-01 Explanation of Table.
   (A)   P - permitted uses. A "P" in a cell indicates that a use category or
use type is allowed by right in the respective district, subject to compliance
with the use-specific regulations set forth in the final column of the table.
Permitted uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of this ZDO,
including those set forth in
Chapter 166: Development Standards.
   (B)   S - special exception. An "S" in a cell indicates that a use category
or use type is allowed as a special exception in the respective district,
subject to compliance with the use-specific regulations set forth in the final
column of the table and approval in accordance with the procedures of §
162.03-03, Special Exception Permit.
   (C)   A - allowed uses. An "A" in a cell indicates that a use category or
use type is allowed by right in a planned development district, subject to
compliance with the use-specific regulations set forth in the final column of
the table. Allowed uses are subject to other applicable regulations in this
ZDO, including those set forth in §
163.04, Planned Development District.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. A blank cell indicates that the use type is
prohibited in the district.
   (E)   Additional regulations. Regardless of whether a use category is
permitted by right or permitted as a special exception, there may be additional
regulations that are applicable to a specific use. The existence of these use-
specific regulations is noted through a section reference in the last column of
the table entitled "Additional Standards." References refer to §
163.03, Use-Specific Standards. These regulations apply to all districts unless
otherwise specified.
   (F)   Uses not listed. The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether or
not an unlisted use is part of an existing use category defined in §
164.02, or is substantially similar to an already defined use, using the
criteria in §
164.02-01(C), Unlisted Uses.
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted    S = Special Exception      A = Allowed in PD
District      Blank Cell = Prohibited
                      Zoning District
Use Category Use Type Residential Nonresidential PD  Additional Standards   
                      RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN (1)
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted    S = Special Exception      A = Allowed in PD
District      Blank Cell = Prohibited
                              Zoning District
Use Category Use Type         Residential Nonresidential PD  Additional
                              RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN (1) Standards   

RESIDENTIAL USE CLASSIFICATION
             Multi-family           P         P    A   § 164.03-01(A)
             dwelling                                        (1)
             Single-family    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A   § 166.05-02
             dwelling
Household    Two-family          P   P   P  P  P  P    A   § 164.03-01(A)
Living       dwelling                                        (2)
             Townhouse              P         P    A   § 166.05-03
             Residential unit
             over                   P   P  P  P  P    A    
             nonresidential
             use
             Family day care  P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A   § 164.03-01(B)
             home                                            (1)
Group Living Group day care   P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A   § 164.03-01(B)
             home                                            (2)
             Rooming house                       A   § 164.03-01(B)
                                                             (3)
Short Term                   P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A   § 164.03-01(C)
Rentals
 
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted   S = Special Exception   A = Allowed in PD District   Blank
Cell = Prohibited
                      Zoning District
Use Category Use Type Residential Nonresidential PD (1) Additional Standards
                      RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted   S = Special Exception   A = Allowed in PD District   Blank
Cell = Prohibited
                                Zoning District
Use Category Use Type           Residential Nonresidential PD  Additional
                                RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN (1) Standards

INSTITUTIONAL USE CLASSIFICATION
Schools      School, private    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A    
             School, public     P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A    
             Community or
             neighborhood       P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A    
             center
             Fraternal                   P  P    P    A    
             organization
             Government            P   P   P  P  P  P    A    
             facility
Institutions Medical treatment           P  P    P    A   § 164.03-02(A)
             facility                                          (1)
             Religious or civic
             institution, 5,000       P   P    P  P    A
             sf or more                                        § 164.03-02(A)
             Religious or civic                                (2)
             institution, less  P   P   P   P    P  P    A
             than 5,000 sf
             Public park/
Public Park  recreation         P   P   P   P  P  P  P  A  A    
or Open      facility
Space        Non-commercial     P   P   P   S  P  P  P    A    
             horticulture
             Recreational       P   P   P   P  P  P    A  A
             docks, private                                    § 164.03-02(B)
             Docks, public            P   P  P  P    A  A   (1)
Marine-
Related      Marinas                  P   P  P  P  P    A   § 164.03-02(B)
                                                               (2)
             Piers, private     P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A   § 164.03-02(B)
             Piers, public            P   P  P  P  P  A  A   (1)

             Telecommunications                                § 164.03-02(C)
             facility,          S   P   P   P  P  P  P    A   (1)
             collocation
             Telecommunications                                § 164.03-02(C)
Utilities    facility,             S   S   S  S  S  S    A   (2)
             freestanding
             Utility, major           S       P  P    A   § 164.03-02(C)
                                                               (3)
             Utility, minor     P   P   P   P  P  P  P    A   § 164.03-02(C)
                                                               (4)
 
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted   S = Special Exception   A = Allowed in PD
District      Blank Cell = Prohibited
                      Zoning District
Use Category Use Type Residential Nonresidential PD (1) Additional Standards
                      RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted   S = Special Exception   A = Allowed in PD District      Blank
Cell = Prohibited
                             Zoning District                   Additional
Use Category Use Type        Residential Nonresidential PD (1) Standards
                             RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN
COMMERCIAL USE CLASSIFICATION
Animal Care  All                   S   P  P  P  P    A       
Day Care     All                   S   P  P    P    A      §
                                                               164.03-03(A)
Commercial
Indoor       All                      P  P  S  P    A       
Recreation
Commercial
Outdoor      All                      S  P  S  P    A       
Recreation
             Tourist                    P    P    A       
Formula      accommodations
Business     All other                      P    A       
             commercial uses
Offices      All                   S   P  P  S  P           
             Municipal                P  P    P    A
Commercial   parking lot                                       §
Parking      Private parking          P  P    P    A      164.03-03(B)
             lot
Restaurants  All                      P  P  P  P    A       
             Bar, nightclub                                    §
             or similar               P  S    S    A      164.03-03(C)(1)
             establishment
             Adult                                             §
             entertainment              S    S    A      164.03-03(C)(2)
             establishment
Retail Sales Pool hall                P  P    P    A      §
and Services Private club             P  P    P    A      164.03-03(C)(1)

             Retail use with          S  P    P    A      §
             gasoline sales                                    164.03-03(C)(4)
             Type I retail         S   P  P  P  P    A      §
             Type II retail           P  P  S  P    A      164.03-03(C)(3)
             Type III retail            S    S    A
             Outdoor storage              P      A      §
Storage                                                        164.03-03(E)
             Self-storage                   S    A      §
                                                               164.03-03(D)
 
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted   S = Special Exception   A = Allowed in PD
District      Blank Cell = Prohibited
                      Zoning District
Use Category Use Type Residential Nonresidential PD (1) Additional Standards
                      RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN
TABLE 164.01: TABLE OF ALLOWED USES
P = Permitted   S = Special Exception   A = Allowed in PD District      Blank
Cell = Prohibited
                            Zoning District                   Additional
Use Category   Use Type     Residential Nonresidential PD (1) Standards
                            RSF RTF RMF DC IC MC CC CN
COMMERCIAL USE CLASSIFICATION
               Bed and         S   P   P  P  P  P    A      §
               breakfast                                      164.03-03(F)(1)
Tourist        Convention            P  P    P    A       
Accommodations facilities
               Hotel, motel          P  P  P  P    A      §
               and inn                                        164.03-03(F)(2)
Outdoor                             P  P              §
Retailers                                                     164.03-03 (G)
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 34-12, passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 03-13,
passed 4-9-13; Am. Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 11-18, passed 11-13-18;
Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 12-4-18; Am. Ord. 01-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 011-22,
passed 9-13-22)
§ 164.02 USE CLASSIFICATIONS, CATEGORIES, AND TYPES.
§ 164.02-01 General.
   (A)   Purpose. Use classifications organize land uses and activities into
general "use categories" and specific "use types" based on common functional,
product, or physical characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity,
the type of customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or
delivered, and site conditions. The use classifications provide a systematic
basis for assigning present and future land uses into appropriate districts.
Use classifications describe one or more uses having similar characteristics,
but do not list every use or activity that may appropriately be within the
classification.
   (B)   Developments with multiple principal uses. When all principal uses of
a development fall within one use category, the entire development is assigned
to that use category. A development that contains a coffee shop, bookstore, and
bakery, for example, would be classified in the retail sales and service
category because all of the development's principal uses are in that category.
When the principal uses of a development fall within different use categories,
each principal use is classified in the applicable category and each use is
subject to applicable regulations within that category. Developments with
multiple principal uses, such as shopping centers, shall incorporate only those
uses allowed in the underlying district.
   (C)   Unlisted uses.
      (1)   Procedure for approving unlisted uses. Where a particular use
category or use type is not specifically listed in Table 164.01, Table of
Allowed Uses, the Planning Commission may permit the use category or type upon
a finding that the criteria of § 164.02-01(C)(2), Criteria for Approving
Unlisted Uses, are met. The Planning Commission shall give due consideration to
the intent of this ZDO concerning the district(s) involved, the character of
the uses specifically identified, and the character of the use(s) in question.
      (2)   Criteria for approving unlisted uses.  In order to determine that
the proposed use(s) has an impact that is similar in nature, function, and
duration to the other uses allowed in a specific district, the Planning
Commission, after review of a recommendation from the Zoning Administrator,
shall assess all relevant characteristics of the proposed use, including but
not limited to the following:
         (a)   The volume and type of sales (retail, wholesale, etc.) if
relevant:
         (b)   The size and type of items sold and nature of inventory on the
premises;
         (c)   Any processing done on the premises, including assembly,
warehousing, shipping, distribution;
         (d)   The nature and location of storage and outdoor display of merc
handise; enclosed, open, inside or outside the principal building; and
predominant types of items stored (such as business vehicles, work-in-process,
inventory, and merchandise, construction materials, scrap and junk, and raw
materials including liquids and powders);
         (e)   The type, size and nature of buildings and structures;
         (f)   The number and density of employees and customers per unit area
of site in relation to business hours and employment shifts;
         (g)   Transportation requirements, including the modal split for
people and goods, by volume type and characteristic of traffic generation to
and from the site, trip purposes and whether trip purposes can be shared by
other uses on the site;
         (h)   Parking requirements, turnover and generation, ratio of the
number of spaces required per unit area or activity, and the potential for
shared parking with other uses;
         (i)   The amount and nature of any nuisances generated on the
premises, including but not limited to noise, smoke, odor, glare, vibration,
radiation and fumes;
         (j)   Any special public utility requirements for serving the proposed
use; and
         (k)   The impact on adjacent properties created by the proposed use
will not be greater than that of other uses in the district.
      (3)   Effects of finding by the Planning Commission.
         (a)   Typical uses: added to this ZDO.  In making the determination
described in § 164.02-01(C)(1), Procedure for Approving Unlisted Uses, the
Planning Commission shall initiate an amendment to this ZDO if it is determined
that the particular use category or use type is likely to be common or to recur
frequently, or that omission of specific inclusion and reference to this ZDO is
likely to lead to public uncertainty and confusion. Until final action has been
taken on such a proposed amendment, the determination of the Planning
Commission shall be binding on all officers and departments of the city.
         (b)   Atypical uses: determination binding. In making a determination
whether to approve an unlisted use, the Planning Commission's determination
shall thereafter be binding on all officers and departments of the city,
without further action or amendment of this ZDO, if the Planning Commission
finds the particular use or class of use(s) is of an unusual or transitory
nature, or is unlikely to recur frequently.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 164.02-02 Residential Use Categories.
   (A)   Household living.
      (1)   Characteristics. Household living is characterized by the
residential occupancy of a dwelling unit by a household. Accessory uses
commonly associated with household living are recreational activities, raising
of pets, hobbies, and parking of the occupants vehicles. Home occupations are
accessory uses that are subject to additional regulations. (See §
164.04-05(C)) Owner-occupied dwelling units in which the owner rents individual
rooms to transient guests shall be subject to the use standards for short term
rentals.
      (2)   Examples.  Examples include occupancy of single-family houses, two-
family houses, and other multi-dwelling structures; some group home facilities,
if the individual units meet the definition of “dwelling unit”; manufactured
homes; and other structures with self-contained dwelling units. Mobile homes
are prohibited.
   (B)   Group living.
      (1)   Characteristics. Group living is characterized by the residential
occupancy of a structure by a group of people who do not meet the definition of
“household”. The size of the group may be larger than the average size of a
household. Generally, group living structures have a common eating area for
residents. The residents may receive care, training, or treatment, as long as
the caregivers also reside at the site. Common accessory uses include
recreational facilities, dining facilities, and parking of vehicles for
occupants and staff.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include group day care homes or rooming houses.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Lodging where tenancy may be arranged for periods of less than
30 days, and no care, training, or treatment is provided, is classified as
short term rentals.
         (b) Lodging where the residents meet the definition of “household” and
where tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month basis or for a longer period is
classified as household living.
         (c)   Most group home facilities are classified as institutions.
However, group home facilities where individual units meet the definition of a
“dwelling unit” in
Chapter 161, Definitions are classified as household living.
      (4)   Exemptions.  In accordance with S.C. Code § 6-29-770(E), as
amended, homes licensed by the state to provide 24-hour care to nine or fewer
mentally or physically handicapped persons are exempt from the provisions of
this ZDO. Such uses serving ten or more persons shall be considered as group
home, nursing home, or assisted living facilities uses, as appropriate.
   (C)   Short term rentals.
      (1)   Characteristics.  SHORT TERM RENTALS are residential dwellings
rented for less than 30 days, used in a manner consistent with the residential
character of the dwelling. Tourist accommodations, including hotels, motels,
inns, and bed and breakfasts, are not considered SHORT TERM RENTALS.
      (2)   Examples.  Rental facilities where the owner does not live on site
and no services are provided, non-owner-occupied units rented to either
families or unrelated persons for any amount of time that is less than 30
consecutive days, or owner-occupied units where individual rooms are rented to
transient guests.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18)
§ 164.02-03 Institutional Use Categories.
   (A)   Schools.
      (1)   Characteristics. The schools use category includes public and
private schools at the primary, elementary, middle, junior high, or high school
level that provide state-mandated basic education. Accessory uses at schools
include play areas, cafeterias, recreational and sport facilities, auditoriums,
and before- or after-school day care.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include public and private schools.
   (B)   Institutions.
      (1)    Characteristics. The institutions use category is characterized by
use types that include buildings providing meeting areas for neighborhoods,
civic gatherings places, fraternal organizations, care and treatment of the
sick, government facilities, post offices, emergency response facilities
(police, fire, or paramedic), and religious and civic institutions. Accessory
uses can include food preparation, meeting rooms, parking, storage facilities,
and staff residences.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include community centers, cultural facilities,
government offices, medical and dental clinics, outpatient facilities, assisted
living facilities, religious institutions, and civic clubs.
      (3)   Exceptions. Group home facilities or residential programs where
individual units meet the definition of a "dwelling unit" in Chapter 161:
Definitions are classified as household living.
   (C)   Public park or open space.
      (1)   Characteristics. Parks and open areas are uses of land focusing on
natural areas consisting mostly of vegetative landscaping or outdoor
recreation, community gardens, or public squares. Lands tend to have few
structures. Accessory uses may include club houses, restrooms, maintenance
facilities, concessions, and parking.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include parks, public squares, plazas,
recreational trails, greenways, botanical gardens, and nature preserves.
      (3)   Exceptions. Privately owned golf courses are classified as
commercial outdoor recreation uses.
   (D)   Marine-related.
      (1)   Characteristics. This category includes facilities that provide
access to the ocean and intercoastal waters for fishing, boating, and other
marine-related activities. Accessory uses may include retails sales,
restaurants, personal services, laundries, fuel sales, dry storage, or other
goods or services associated with watercraft operation.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include public or private docks, piers, or
marinas.
      (3)   Exceptions. Marine-related retail shops such as bait and tackle are
classified as Type I or II retail.
   (E)   Utilities.
      (1)   Characteristics. This category includes both major utilities, which
are infrastructure services providing regional or community-wide service, and
minor utilities, which are infrastructure services that need to be located in
or near the neighborhood where the service is provided. Telecommunication
facilities also are a type of utility. Utility uses generally do not regularly
have employees at the site. Services may be publicly or privately provided.
Accessory uses may include parking and control, monitoring, or data
transmission equipment.
      (2)   Examples.
          (a)   Examples of major utilities include water towers, waste
treatment plants, public transit park and ride facilities, and electrical
substations.
         (b)   Examples of minor utilities include water and sewage pump
stations, stormwater retention and detention facilities, telephone exchanges,
and surface transportation stops.
         (c)   Examples of telecommunication facilities include facilities for
transmitting wireless phones and pager services, and television and radio
broadcasting equipment that are configured as freestanding towers, or as
collocated equipment upon another tower, building, or other vertical
projection.
      (3)   Exceptions. Utility offices are classified as offices.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 164.02-04 Commercial Use Categories.
   (A)   Animal care.  
      (1)   Characteristics. The animal care use category is characterized by
uses related to the provision of medical services, general care, and boarding
services for domestic animals.
      (2)   Examples. Examples of animal care use types include animal
shelters, animal grooming, kennels (outdoor and indoor), equine stables, and
veterinary clinics.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The breeding and resale of domesticated animals on a commercial
basis is a retail sales and service use.
         (b)   The breeding and resale of domesticated animals typically
considered as household pets as part of a residential use is a home occupation.
   (B)   Day care.
       (1)   Characteristics. The day care use category is characterized by use
types that provide care, protection, and supervision for children or adults on
a regular basis away from their primary residence typically for less than 24
hours per day. Care can be provided during daytime or nighttime hours.
Accessory uses include offices, kitchens for food preparation, recreation
areas, and parking.
      (2)   Examples. Example use types include adult care centers, child care
centers, and preschools. Preschools are intended to provide limited educational
or training services, while other child day care uses are not.
      (3)   Exceptions. Day care does not include public or private schools or
facilities operated in connection with an employment use, shopping center,
religious institution, or other principal use where children are cared for
while parents or guardians are occupied on the premises or in the immediate
vicinity.
   (C)   Restaurants. 
      (1)   Characteristics. This category includes establishments that sell
food for on- or off-premise consumption. Accessory uses may include decks and
patios for outdoor seating, customer and employee parking areas, and valet
parking facilities.
       (2)   Examples. Examples include restaurants, including fast food
establishments, yogurt or ice cream shops, and pizza delivery.
      (3)   Exceptions. Nightclubs and bars are classified as retail sales and
service uses.
   (D)   Office.
      (1)   Characteristics. This category includes activities that are
conducted in an office setting and that generally focus on business,
government, professional, or financial services. Accessory uses may include
cafeterias, parking, or other amenities primarily for the use of employees in
the firm or building.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include professional services such as lawyers,
accountants, engineers, or architects; financial businesses such as lenders,
brokerage houses or real estate agents; data processing; sales offices;
government and public utility offices; and TV and radio studios.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Offices that are part of and located with a principal use in
another category are considered accessory to the firm's primary activity.
         (b)   Contractors and others who perform services off-site are
included in the office category if equipment and materials are not stored
outside and fabrication, services, or similar work is not carried on at the
site.
         (c)   Medical and dental clinics, medical and dental labs, and blood-
collection facilities are classified as medical treatment facilities.
   (E)   Commercial outdoor entertainment.
      (1)   Characteristics. This category includes generally large uses that
provide continuous commercial recreation or entertainment-oriented activities.
They primarily take place outdoors. They may take place in a number of
structures that are arranged together in an outdoor setting. Accessory uses may
include restaurants, bars, concessions, parking, and maintenance facilities.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include privately owned golf courses, golf
driving ranges, miniature golf facilities, water parks, privately owned tennis
facilities, and publicly or privately owned active sports facilities such as
ballfields and basketball courts.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Indoor continuous entertainment activities such as theaters,
bowling alleys, game arcades, pool halls, or dance halls are classified as
commercial indoor recreation.
         (b)   Publicly or privately owned piers, docks or marinas are
classified as marine-related uses.
   (F)   Commercial indoor recreation.
      (1)   Characteristics. The commercial indoor recreation use category
includes privately owned uses that provide recreation or entertainment
activities in an enclosed structure or structures. Accessory uses may include
offices, concessions, snack bars, parking, and maintenance facilities.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include country clubs, fitness centers, bowling
alleys, dance halls, skating rinks, indoor commercial swimming pools,
racquetball, squash, and tennis club facilities (indoor) as well as theatres,
which includes cinemas, screening rooms, and stages.
      (3)   Exceptions. Pool halls, bars, and night clubs are classified as a
use type under retail sales and services.
   (G)   Commercial parking.
      (1)   Characteristics.  Parking facilities that provide parking in
exchange for compensation shall be considered commercial parking. Accessory
uses may include small structures intended to shield parking attendants from
the weather and permitted outdoor retailers.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include private parking lots and municipal
parking lots.
   (H)   Retail sales and service.
      (1)   Characteristics. Retail sales and service firms are involved in the
sale, lease, or rent of new or used products to the general public. They may
also provide personal services or entertainment or provide product repair or
services for consumer and business goods. Accessory uses may include offices,
storage of goods, manufacture or repackaging of goods for on-site sale and
parking.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include uses from the five following groups:
         (a)   Type I retail. Type I retail uses include small-scale
"convenience" uses that are 2,500 square feet in size or less, that are
intended to serve the general area or neighborhood in which they are located.
Type I retail uses include the following types of uses:
            1.   Financial institutions;
            2.   Laundromats, laundry and dry-cleaning drop-off establishments;
            3.   Photographic studios;
            4.   Mailing or packing services;
            5.   Retail bakeries;
            6.   Hair, tanning, and nail salons; personal care services;
            7.   Massage therapy and day spas;
            8.   Stores selling books, clothing, and dry goods;
            9.   Income fax return preparers;
            10.   Repair of TV's, bicycles, clocks, watches, shoes, guns,
canvas products, appliances and office equipment;
            11.   Tailoring and shoe repair; and
            12.   Locksmith.
         (b)   Type II retail. Type II retail uses generally serve groups of
neighborhoods and are appropriate near neighborhood edges and along collector
streets. Type II retail uses are larger in scale and intensity than Type I
retail uses, but do not exceed 5,000 square feet and do not include any outdoor
storage or display. Examples of Type II retail uses include bars, nightclubs,
and pool halls; stores selling, leasing, or renting consumer, home and business
goods, whether new or used, including alcohol for off-site consumption; art,
art supplies, electronic equipment, fabric, furniture, flowers, groceries and
food sales; household products, jewelry, recorded music, pets, pet food,
pharmaceuticals, plants, printer material, stationary, and videos; photocopy
and blueprint services; psychics and mediums; funeral homes and mortuaries. Any
Type I retail use exceeding 2,500 square feet in size shall be classified as a
Type II retail use.
         (c)   Type III retail. Type III retail uses are appropriate along
major thoroughfares like Folly Road north of the island and in primarily
nonresidential areas. These types of retail uses generally provide a range of
goods and services that are regional in scale, and have the highest square
footage and intensities of the retail use types, are generally accessed by
auto, and often include some form of outdoor storage or display. Examples of
Type III retail uses include 24-hour or convenience type stores that sell
gasoline; shopping centers with more than three tenants; home improvement,
hardware, and garden supply stores; building material sales; rental equipment
yards; and machinery sales.
   (I)   Storage.
      (1)   Characteristics. Storage uses provide separate storage areas for
individual or business uses. Self-storage areas are designed to allow private
access by the tenant for storing or removing personal property. Outdoor storage
is defined as the keeping of material, junk, goods, vehicles, or merchandise in
an unroofed area.
      (2)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses may include living quarters for a
resident manager, security and leasing offices, and outside storage of
recreational vehicles. Use of the storage areas for sales, service, repair, or
manufacturing operations is not considered accessory to the use. The rental of
trucks or equipment is also not considered accessory to the use.
   (J)   Tourist accommodations.
      (1)   Characteristics. This category includes buildings other than short
term rentals arranged for short- term stays of less than 30 days for rent,
lease, or interval occupancy. This category includes facilities primarily
oriented for visitor use. Accessory uses may include pools and other
recreational facilities, limited storage, restaurants, bars, meeting
facilities, and offices.
      (2)   Examples. Examples include hotels, motels, inns, bed and
breakfasts, and convention centers.
   (K)   Outdoor retailers. An outdoor retailer is any business that rents,
leases, or sells products (including food products) to the public at a location
in Folly Beach other than in a permanent building or without a permanent
location in the city. Outdoor retailers include businesses that conduct
business primarily from vehicles of any description, trailers, storage units,
mobile units, carts, stands, booths, tables, tents, or open spaces (e.g., golf
cart and bicycle rentals).
   (L)   Formula business. A formula business is any business with ten or more
outlets anywhere in the world; and with standardized services, such as
merchandise, trademark, logo, uniforms, décor, and the like.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 03-12, passed 2-21-12; Am. Ord. 03-13,
passed 4-9-13; Am. Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 11-18, passed 11-13-18;
Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 12-4-18; Am. Ord. 28-19, passed 9-10-19)
§ 164.03 USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
§ 164.03-01 Residential Uses.
   (A)   Household living.
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling.  Multi-family dwellings shall comply with
the following standards:
         (a)   Parking structures may be permitted as an accessory use to serve
any multi-family development provided the structure does not exceed 34 feet in
height (from the top of the first living floor surface) and provided its visual
impact on adjacent lands is mitigated through building placement, screening, or
architectural treatment.
         (b)   Multi-family structures shall be subject to the maximum height
of the district where located, and shall not exceed two stories of heated floor
area.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling.
         (a)   Two-family dwellings shall comply with the standards in §
166.05-03, Single- and Two-Family Design Standards.
         (b)   Nothing in this ZDO shall prevent a two-family dwelling on a lot
in the RTF District from consisting of two detached structures.
   (B)   Group living.
      (1)   Group day care home. The number of children shall be limited to a
maximum of eight children, including residents.
      (2)   Family day care home. The number of children shall be limited to a
maximum of five children, including the residents.
   (C)   Short term rentals.  Short term rentals shall have a maximum overnight
occupancy of two persons per bedroom, plus two persons per rental dwelling. The
maximum occupancy may be increased by the Building Official upon demonstration
by the owner of SCDES compliance with allowable septic capacity.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 26-17, passed 1-9-18; Am. Ord. 11-21,
passed 5-11-21; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
§ 164.03-02 Institutional Uses.
   (A)   Institutions.
      (1)   Religious or civic institutions. Religious or civic institutions
shall:
         (a)   Be located on a parcel or site that fronts an arterial or
collector street; and
         (b)   Comply with the standards in §
164.03-03(A), Day Care, if such accessory uses are included.
   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to grant modifications to
any of the standards listed in this section in order to eliminate a substantial
burden on religious exercise as guaranteed by the federal Religious Land Use
and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. § 2000), as amended. In
granting such a
modification, the Zoning Administrator may require conditions consistent with
the federal act that will secure substantially the objectives of the modified
standard and that will substantially mitigate any potential adverse impact on
the environment or on adjacent properties.
      (2)   Medical treatment facility. A medical treatment facility or
outpatient facility in the DC or IC zoning districts shall:
         (a)   Not exceed 2,500 square feet of floor area; and
         (b)   Be configured to minimize the impact of visitor and patient
activities on surrounding uses.
   (B)   Marine-related.
      (1)   Docks and piers. Docks and piers shall comply with all applicable
federal and state regulations.
      (2)   Marinas. Marinas shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Each lot containing a marina shall have a minimum lot frontage
of 100 linear feet;
         (b)   Exterior lighting shall comply with the standards in §
166.10, Exterior Lighting, and shall be directed and shielded so as to avoid
glare on adjacent residential uses;
         (c)   Storage buildings and other accessory structures associated with
a marina located on a lot within the RSF or RTF Districts shall be of a
residential character; and
         (d)   All applicable federal and state laws.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   Telecommunications facility, collocation.
         (a)   On existing towers. Telecommunications facilities may be
collocated on existing towers, buildings, or similar structures if they comply
with the following standards:
            1.   It is demonstrated the tower or structure can accept the
additional loading created by the collocation.
            2.   A tower which is modified or reconstructed to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower type as the
existing tower, unless a monopole is determined more appropriate at the
specific location.
            3.   All ground-based equipment complies with the landscaping and
security fencing requirements for wireless communications towers in §
164.03-02(C)(2), Telecommunications Facility, Freestanding.
         (b)   On existing buildings.  Telecommunications facilities can be
collocated on existing buildings, provided:
            1.   The antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment
shall be of a neutral color that is identical to, or compatible with, the color
of the structure on which it is located to make the antenna and related
equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible.
            2.   The antenna is not extended more than 30 feet above the
highest point of the building or structure.
            3.   No antenna is within ten feet of a lot line abutting a street,
or within five feet of another lot line.
            4.   No dish antenna with a total surface area of ten square feet
or greater is located on the roof of a structure located in the RSF or RTF
Districts.
            5.   Ground-based equipment complies with the landscaping and
security fencing requirements in §
164.03-02(C)(2), Telecommunications Facility, Freestanding.
      (2)   Telecommunications facility, freestanding. All freestanding
telecommunications facilities shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   Removal of abandoned facilities. A tower that has not been
operated for a continuous period for 120 days shall be considered abandoned.
The city may require an abandoned tower to be removed. The owner of such tower
shall remove the tower within 30 days of receipt of written notice from the
city. If the tower is not removed within 30 days, the city may remove it at the
owner's expense and any special exception approval of the tower shall be deemed
to have expired.
         (b)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from the standards of
this section (but shall be required to comply with other relevant standards in
this ZDO, such as accessory use or design standards):
            1.   Receive-only television or radio antennas for non-commercial
use.
            2.   Antennas legally operated by FCC-licensed amateur radio
operators.
         (c)   Color.
            1.   Freestanding telecommunications facilities shall either
maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject to any applicable standards of
the FAA, be painted a neutral color (i.e., light grey) to reduce visual
obtrusiveness.
            2.   At a freestanding telecommunications facilities site, the
design of buildings and related structures shall, to the maximum extent
practicable, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that
will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding buildings.
         (d)   Setbacks.
            1.   Freestanding towers, guy anchors, and equipment buildings
shall meet the minimum setback requirements for the zoning district where
located (See
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards).
            2.   A freestanding tower shall be setback a minimum distance equal
to one-half the height of the tower from any single- or two-family dwelling.
For guyed towers, the setback shall be measured from a line connecting the
outermost anchor points for guy wires.
         (e)   Height. The height of a freestanding tower shall not exceed 200
feet.
         (f)   Lighting. Night-time strobe lighting shall not be incorporated
unless required by the Federal Communications Commission, Federal Aviation
Administration or other regulatory agencies.
         (g)   Signage. The freestanding tower or antenna shall not include
signage.
         (h)   Landscaping. Freestanding telecommunications facilities shall
comply with the following landscape standards:
            1.   Freestanding telecommunications facilities (including
equipment structures and cabinets) shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the ground-based portion of the
tower facility from existing residential development.
            2.   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
         (i)   Separation. If an applicant proposes a new freestanding
telecommunications facility within 1,200 feet of an existing freestanding
telecommunications facility, the applicant shall submit a statement indicating
the reasons why the existing tower(s) was inadequate or unavailable for
collocation. The Zoning Administrator shall allow the owner of such existing
tower an opportunity to comment prior to making a decision.
         (j)   Collocation.  New freestanding towers shall be designed to
accommodate the present and future needs of the owner and at least one
comparable user. Unused space on an existing tower shall be made available to
other users at a fair market value.
         (k)   Single lot. Towers, guy anchors, equipment buildings, and any
other appurtenances related to a freestanding telecommunications facility shall
be located on a single parcel or tract of land.
         (l)   Safety.
            1.   Freestanding towers shall be designed to meet the wind loading
requirements specified in the American National Standards Institute TIA-222-
F Report (as amended).
            2.   The owner/applicant shall provide assurance the structural
integrity of towers and antenna will continue to comply with state and federal
standards, the city's Building Code, and the applicable standards for towers
published by the American National Standards Institute, as amended. (If, upon
inspection, it is
determined a tower fails to comply with such standards and constitutes a danger
to persons or property, the owner shall be notified that the owner has 30 days
to bring the tower into compliance. Failure to bring the tower into compliance
within 30 days shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower at the
owner's expense).
         (m)   Security fencing.  Towers, guy anchor supports, and ground-based
equipment buildings shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than six
feet in height and equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device.
         (n)   Radiation reporting. It shall be demonstrated the proposed
tower, antenna, and supporting equipment complies with FCC non-ionizing
radiation requirements for individual and combined facilities.
         (o)   Interference. No freestanding telecommunications facility,
antenna, or supporting equipment shall interfere with equipment operated by the
Charleston International Airport or radio equipment operated at a fixed site by
the city.
         (p)   Compliance with state or federal laws and regulations.  Towers
and antennas shall meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA,
the FCC, and any other agency of the state or federal government that regulates
towers and antennas. If such standards and regulations change, owners shall be
responsible for bringing the towers and antennas into compliance with the
changed standards and regulations within six months of their effective date,
unless a different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling
regulations. (Failure to maintain freestanding telecommunications facilities in
compliance shall constitute grounds for removal of the tower or antenna, at the
owner's expense.)
         (q)   Franchises and licenses. It shall be demonstrated all franchises
and licenses required by law for the construction or operation of a tower or
antenna have been obtained.
         (r)   Availability of other suitable locations.  New freestanding
towers shall not be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that no
existing freestanding communication tower or other structure can accommodate
the applicant's needs. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower
or structure can accommodate the applicant's needs shall be signed by a
registered engineer and shall demonstrate at least one of the following:
            1.   No existing communication towers or structures at a suitable
height are located within the geographic area required to meet the applicant's
engineering requirements;
            2.   Existing freestanding towers or structures do not have
sufficient structural strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and
related equipment;
            3.   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antennas on the existing towers or structures, or the
antennas on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna; or
            4.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting
factors that render existing towers and structures unusable.
      (3)   Utility, major. An electrical power facility, substation, or
transmission station shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Be within reasonable proximity of the area to be served by the
facility;
         (b)   Be set back a minimum of 100 feet from property lines to ensure
it does not have an adverse impact on surrounding uses.
      (4)   Utility, minor. A minor utility use shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   Be located within reasonable proximity of the area to be served;
         (b)   Provide adequate setbacks, screening, and buffering around the
perimeter of the proposed use if it is deemed necessary to ensure land use
compatibility with surrounding uses.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 164.03-03 Commercial Uses.
   (A)   Day care. All day care facilities are permitted subject to the
following standards:
      (1)   Day care facilities shall comply with all applicable state
regulations.
      (2)   A day care facility operated by, and located on the site of, a
religious institution may be allowed as an accessory use only if found to be
compatible with adjacent areas in terms of hours of operation, noise, lighting,
parking, and similar considerations.
      (3)   In the DC District, day care facilities shall not exceed a gross
floor area of 1,000 square feet, and shall provide services primarily to the
surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Commercial parking. Any exchange of compensation for parking shall be
considered a commercial parking use and shall:
      (1)   Not be permitted in any residential district of the city.
      (2)   Limit street frontage in the DC District to 100 feet.
      (3)   Provide at least two 96-gallon roll cart trash cans beginning
January 1, 2022. Each trash can must:
         (a)   Remain accessible during the operating hours of the commercial
parking lot.
         (b)   Be screened from off-site views and adjacent rights-of-way in
conjunction with §
164.04-05.
         (c)   Be maintained in a clean and orderly condition.
      (4)   Provide delineation in the form of fencing to distinguish public
rights-of-way from private property beginning January 1, 2022.
   (C)   Retail sales and service.
      (1)   Bar, nightclub or similar establishment.
         (a)   Such use shall comply with the location standards established by
the State of South Carolina.
         (b)   Hours of operation shall be limited to the time frame between
12:00 noon and 2:00 a.m.
      (2)   Adult entertainment establishment. To protect the community from
the adverse effects of having activities and standards involving pandering to
gross sexuality imposed on them, none of the following uses shall be permitted
in any district unless a special exception permit, §
162.03-03, is obtained. The requirement for a special exception permit shall be
in addition to all other applicable ordinances.
         (a)   Book sales and magazines sales, where either the advertising or
the displays or signs in or out of the location offer written materials showing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (this does not apply
to the availability for sale of any material displayed in a way that only the
name of the book or magazine appears);
         (b)   Movie theaters offering movies or other displays showing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (c)   Any type theater or establishment offering any kind of show
emphasizing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (d)   Any coin-operated devices and any place offering coin-operated
devices which show specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
and
         (e)   Any cabaret, club or tavern offering any entertainment showing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   Retail Type I, Type II, and Type III.
         (a)   Type I retail uses shall not exceed 2,500 square feet of gross
floor area per individual use or establishment.
         (b)   Type II retail uses shall not exceed 5,000 square feet of gross
floor area per individual use or establishment.
      (4)   Retail/service use with gasoline sales.
         (a)   Convenience stores.
            1.   Gasoline pumps, canopies, and associated service areas are
prohibited in any established front yard. All pumps and canopies shall be
located to the rear of the building.
            2.   All exterior lighting for the building, parking area, gas
islands, and canopies shall be configured so that the source of illumination is
not visible from off-site areas.
            3.   Drive-through windows, stacking lanes, and circulation shall
be prohibited in the front of the building or in a side yard abutting a street.
            4.   Trash containers shall be fully screened by a wall that is
constructed of the same material as the principal structure. Trash containers
shall be located so as to minimize their visibility from adjacent public
streets or other public gathering areas.
            5.   A wall, fence, or hedge with a minimum height of three feet
shall be installed along any street frontage adjacent to any parking or
vehicular use area. Such hedges, walls, or fences may be built along property
lines or as a continuation of the principal structure’s building wall.
            6.   Signs attached to the canopy shall not extend beyond the ends
or extremities of the fascia of the canopy to which or on which they are
attached.
   (D)   Self storage. Self storage uses shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be least two acres.
      (2)   The only commercial uses permitted on site shall be the rental of
storage bays and the pickup and deposit of goods or property in dead storage.
      (3)   Storage bays shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate, or
process goods; service or repair vehicles, small engines or electrical
equipment, or to conduct similar repair activities; conduct garage sales or
retail sales of any kind; or conduct any other commercial or industrial
activity on the site.
      (4)   No more than one security or caretaker quarters may be developed on
the site.
      (5)   Individual storage bays or private postal boxes within a self-
service storage facility use shall not be considered premises for the purpose
of assigning a legal address.
      (6)   Except as provided in this subsection, all property stored on the
site shall be entirely within enclosed buildings.
      (7)   Open storage of recreational vehicles, travel trailers, and dry
storage of pleasure boats of the type customarily maintained by persons for
their personal use shall be permitted within a self-service storage facility
use, provided that the following standards are met:
         (a)   The storage shall occur only within a designated area, which
shall be clearly delineated;
         (b)   The storage area shall not exceed 25% of the buildable area of
the site;
         (c)   Outdoor storage areas shall be located to the rear of the
principal structure and be screened with a wooden fence or masonry wall no less
than eight feet in height;
         (d)   Storage shall not occur within the area set aside for minimum
building setbacks;
         (e)   No dry stacking of boats shall be permitted on site; and
         (f)   No vehicle maintenance, washing, or repair shall be permitted.
   (E)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage uses (as a principal use) shall:
      (1)   Be screened with a wooden fence or masonry wall no less than eight
feet in height in accordance with §
166.09, Fences and Walls. The height of materials and equipment stored shall
not exceed the height of the screening fence or wall; and
      (2)   Not allow customer or vehicular circulation to occur through the
area used for outdoor storage.
   (F)   Tourist accommodations.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast. Bed and breakfast establishments shall comply
with the following standards:
         (a)   Bed and breakfasts shall obtain a business license prior to
operation;
         (b)   The bed and breakfast shall be accessory to the structure’s
principal use as a dwelling, and the operators shall permanently reside on the
premises;
         (c)   The structure shall maintain an exterior appearance that is in
character with surrounding residential uses;
         (d)   A maximum of four sleeping rooms may be available for transient
occupancy, and in no event shall a sleeping room be occupied by a guest for
more than seven consecutive days;
         (e)   Cooking facilities shall not be permitted within individual
sleeping rooms, and food may be served only to overnight guests;
         (f)   Each sleeping room shall be served by a separate smoke detector
and shall include a graphic depiction of a fire escape plan;
         (g)   Common dining or gathering areas shall not be leased for social
events;
         (h)   All off-street parking areas for the use shall be on the site,
located within side or rear yard areas, screened in accordance with this ZDO,
and shall not include exterior lighting mounted higher than six feet above
grade; and
         (i)   Bed and breakfast inns shall not be located within 200 feet of
another bed and breakfast inn or group living facility.
      (2)   Hotels, motels, and inns.
         (a)   Individual hotel or motel establishments shall be limited to a
maximum number of ten guest sleeping rooms per establishment.
         (b)   Hotels, motels, and inns shall not be located within 200 feet of
another tourist accommodation or group living facility.
   (G)   Outdoor retailers. Outdoor retailers shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   Outdoor retailers shall operate only on lots that have frontage on
Center Street, East Ashley Avenue, and East Arctic Avenue in the Downtown
Commercial or Island Commercial Zoning Districts.
      (2)   The property on which the business will be operated contains
adequate space to support the proposed outdoor retail sales without encroaching
into or creating a negative impact on existing buffers, landscaping, or traffic
movements.
      (3)   A lot may have one outdoor retailer at a time per 2625 square feet.
Multiple retailers may occupy the same lot, but at no time can the number of
retailers operating exceed the maximum number allowed on the lot.
      (4)   If there is more than one outdoor retailer on a lot, the space used
by each outdoor retailer must be at least five feet away from any part of the
space being used by any other outdoor retailer.
      (5)   The business will be located so as not to interfere with the normal
operation of any other permitted use of the property.
      (6)   The business will not cause interference with the movement of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic to such an extent that adequate police, fire,
or other emergency services cannot be provided.
      (7)   The hours of operation of the business will be from no earlier than
7:30 a.m. to no later than 10:00 p.m., except for food and beverage sales.
      (8)   Beginning January 1, 2022, no outdoor retaileroffering the sale of
food or beverage shall be located on a property that does not provide at least
one restroom facility. If the property has more than two vendors, there should
be at least two restroom facilities. Restroom facilities may be permanent or
temporary and must:
         (a)   Remain open and accessible during the hours during the operating
hours of any business on the property.
         (b)   Be screened from off-site views and adjacent rights-of-way in
conjunction with §
164.04-05. Screening enclosures must be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   Be maintained in a clean and orderly condition.
         (d)   Include a hand washing or sanitization station inside or in
close proximity of the restroom.
         (e)   Be located within 50 feet of the vendor(s) which it serves.
      (9)   No business activity shall occur on a street, sidewalk, right-of-
way, beach or other public property or interfere with the public’s use of such
public property unless the business has a franchise from the city or is being
operated as part of a special event regulated by
Ch. 153, Special Events, etc.
      (10)   The business shall pick up, remove, and properly dispose of all
trash or refuse created by the business as often as needed and at the end of
business hours. Beginning January 1, 2022, no outdoor retailer offering the
sale of food or beverage shall be located on property that does not provide at
least one 96-gallon roll cart trash can per outdoor retailer. Each trash can
must:
         (a)   Remain accessible during the operating hours of any business on
the property.
         (b)   Be screened from off-site views and adjacent rights-of-way in
conjunction with §
164.04-05.
         (c)   Be maintained in a clean and orderly condition.
      (11)   The business shall not change locations within the City without
prior notice to and permission from the city.
      (12)   The business shall comply with all other applicable provisions of
the Folly Beach Code of Ordinances and the laws and regulations of South
Carolina and the United States.
      (13)   Outdoor retailers located in the Island Commercial (IC) Zoning
District shall be located only in commercial parking lots with more than ten
spaces.
      (14)   No more than one outdoor retailer shall operate in any commercial
parking lot located in the IC Zoning District.
      (15)   All aspects of an outdoor retailer business must be adequately
secured against windstorms or be capable of being moved to a secure place
quickly when a windstorm is approaching. In addition, an outdoor retailer
business must be capable of being moved within 24 hours of getting notice from
the city of an approaching tropical storm or hurricane.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 34-12, passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 03-13,
passed 4-9-13; Am. Ord. 30-17, passed 10-10-17; Am. Ord. 13-18, passed 12-4-18;
Am. Ord. 023-21, passed 9-14-21; Am. Ord. 024-21, passed 9-14- 21; Am. Ord.
003-22, passed 5-10-22)
§ 164.04 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   § 164.04-01 Purpose.
   This section authorizes the establishment of accessory uses and structures
that are incidental and customarily subordinate to principal uses. The city's
intent is to allow a broad range of accessory uses, so long as such uses
are located on the same site as the principal use, and so long as they comply
with the performance standards set forth in this section in order to reduce
potentially adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 164.04-02 General Development and Operational Standards.
   (A)   Compliance with ZDO requirements. All accessory uses, structures, and
activities shall be subject to the applicable general, dimensional,
operational, and use-specific regulations set forth in this ZDO, including the
regulations that apply to the associated principal use (including the
development standards in Chapter 166: Development Standards). In case of any
conflict between the accessory use standards of this section and any other
requirement of this ZDO, the standards of this section shall control.
   (B)   Time of establishment. An accessory use or structure may be approved
in conjunction with approval of the principal use or structure; however, no
accessory use or structures shall be established on the subject parcel until
after a certificate of occupancy has been issued for the principal use.
   (C)   General standards. All accessory uses and structures shall:
      (1)   Directly serve the principal use or structure;
      (2)   Be customarily accessory and clearly incidental and subordinate to
the principal use or structure;
      (3)   Be subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal use or
structure;
      (4)   Be owned or operated by the same person as the principal use or
structure;
      (5)   Be located on the same lot as the principal use or structure or on
a contiguous lot;
      (6)   Together with the principal use or structure, not violate the bulk,
density, parking, landscaping, or open space standards of this ZDO; and
      (7)   Not constitute a combination use, which is the combination of two
principal uses (combination uses will not meet the above standards in terms of
being subordinate or providing service to the principal use).
      (8)   Not be rented or used in exchanged for compensation separately from
associated primary use.
Unless otherwise specified in this section, any accessory use or accessory
structure shall be treated as a permitted use in the zoning district in which
it is located.
   (D)   Location of accessory structures. Unless otherwise specified, all
accessory structures shall comply with the following general location
requirements:
      (1)   An accessory structure may be located only to the side or rear of
the lot, and shall not be within a front yard area.
      (2)   Detached accessory structures shall be located at least five feet
from any lot line and ten feet from any other principal or accessory structure.
      (3)   An accessory garage may be attached to the principal building by an
open breezeway or similar structure.
      (4)   No accessory structure shall be located within any platted or
recorded easement or over any known utility.
   (E)   Maximum height. The maximum allowed height for an accessory structure
shall be 15 feet from grade, but in no case shall an accessory structure be
taller than the associated principal structure.
   (F)   Maximum floor area.
      (1)   Accessory to residential uses. The combined floor area of all
detached accessory structures accessory to residential uses shall consist of no
more than 30% of the total floor area of the principal structure.
      (2)   Accessory to nonresidential uses.  For uses accessory to
nonresidential uses, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   If located in a detached structure, the maximum floor area shall
be limited to no more than 10% of the lot area; and
         (b)   If located within the principal structure, the maximum floor
area shall be limited to a maximum of 30% of the gross floor area of the
principal structure.
   (G)   Residential occupancy prohibited. No accessory structure shall be used
for residential occupancy.
   (H)   Shipping containers and the like. Any shipping container, or other
similar modular component, used in the construction of a residential structure
shall be, at a minimum, painted with no visible logos, brands, lettering, and
advertisements on the exterior surface.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 022-21, passed 9-14-21; Am. Ord. 023-24,
passed 1-)
   § 164.04-03 Table of Permitted Accessory Uses.
   (A)   Table as guide. Table 164.02, Table of Permitted Accessory Uses, is
established as a guide to identify the appropriateness of the more common
accessory uses in each zoning district.
   (B)   Listed accessory uses. Table 164.02, Table of Permitted Accessory
Uses, lists what types of accessory uses, structures, and activities are
allowed in each of the zoning districts. If a specific accessory use is allowed
in a zoning district, the column underneath the zoning district is marked with
a "P." If the accessory use or structure is not allowed in a zoning district,
the column is left blank. If there is a reference contained in the column
entitled "Additional Standards," refer to the cited section(s) for additional
standards that apply to the specific accessory use.
   (C)   Interpretation of unidentified accessory uses. The Zoning
Administrator shall evaluate potential accessory uses that are not identified
in Table 164.02, Table of Permitted Accessory Uses, on a case-by-case basis, as
an interpretation (See § 162.03-14). In making the interpretation, the Zoning
Administrator shall apply the following standards:
      (1)   The definition of "accessory use", see Chapter 161: Definitions,
and the general accessory use standards established in §
164.04-02, General Development and Operational Standards;
      (2)   The additional regulations for specific accessory uses established
in §
164.04-05, Standards for Specific Accessory Uses and Structures;
      (3)   The purpose and intent of the zoning district in which the
accessory use is located (See Chapter 163: Zoning Districts.);
      (4)   Any potential adverse impacts the accessory use may have on other
lands in the area, compared with other accessory uses permitted in the zoning
district;
      (5)   The compatibility of the accessory use, including the structure in
which it is housed, with other principal and accessory uses permitted in the
zoning district.
   (D)   Table of Permitted Accessory Uses. Table 164.02, Table of Permitted
Accessory Uses, specifies the zoning district where accessory uses may be
permitted.
TABLE 164.02: TABLE OF PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES
P = Permitted      Blank Cell = Prohibited
                           Zoning District                 
                          Residenti   NonresidentiPD     Additional
   Accessory Use TypeRSF RTF RMF    DC IC RC MC CN    (1)    Standards       
TABLE 164.02: TABLE OF PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES
P = Permitted      Blank Cell = Prohibited
                           Zoning District                 
                          Residenti   NonresidentiPD     Additional
   Accessory Use TypeRSF RTF RMF    DC IC RC MC CN    (1)    Standards       

Boat or marine repair                   P  P          §
(outdoor)                                                    164.04-05(A)
Docks, piers or boat    P   P   P      P  P  P  P       A    
slips
Food sales (indoor)           P      P  P  P  P       A   §
                                                             164.04-05(B)
Home occupations        P   P   P      P  P           A   §
                                                             164.04-05(C)
Laundry facilities            P      P  P    P       A   §
                                                             164.04-05(D)
Neighborhood recreation P   P   P      P  P           A   §
center                                                       164.04-05(E)
Localized electricity                                
generation
Outdoor display and                 P  P  P  P          §
sales                                                        164.04-05(F)
Outdoor storage (as an        P      P  P  P  P       A   §
accessory use)                                               164.04-05(G)
Retail sales and              P      P  P  P  P       A   §
services                                                     164.04-05(H)
Swimming pool or hot    P   P   P      P  P    P       A   §
tub                                                          164.04-05(I)
Vehicle storage         P   P   P        P  P  P          §
                                                             164.04-05(J)
Notes:
(1) Accessory uses in a Planned Development District are only authorized in accordance
with the associated PD Master Plan.
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 164.04-04 Prohibited Accessory Uses.
   The following activities shall not be regarded as accessory to a principal
use on any site and are prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Use of travel trailer or recreational vehicle (RV) for overnight
sleeping. Overnight sleeping in a travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or
similar arrangement shall be allowed for up to 30 days, cumulative, per year
subject to the following rules:
      (1)   Any person planning to sleep overnight in a travel trailer,
recreational vehicle, or similar arrangement must first register with the City
Clerk's office in City Hall and receive a permit that shall be displayed in a
window of the trailer or vehicle.
      (2)   In no case shall a travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or similar
arrangement be used for overnight sleeping for more than seven consecutive
days.
      (3)   A travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or similar arrangement may
only be used for overnight sleeping if it is parked on a lot that is occupied
by a full time resident.
      (4)   No travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or similar arrangement
shall be allowed to tie in to the sewer system or septic system of any property
nor shall it be allowed to use a generator.
      (5)   The use of a travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or similar
arrangement as a rental accommodation shall be prohibited.
      (6)   No more than one travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or similar
arrangement shall be located on private property at any one time.
      (7)   If the primary residence becomes uninhabitable and is being
repaired, a travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or similar arrangement may be
occupied by the property owner for up to six months.
      (8)   A resident shall not sleep overnight on the property in a travel
trailer, recreational vehicle, or similar arrangement while the resident's
house on the property is being rented.
   (B)   Use of motor vehicle or trailer for sales, service, storage, or other
business. The use of any motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container as a
structure in which, out of which, or from which any goods are sold or stored,
any services performed, or other businesses conducted, shall be prohibited in
all zoning districts. However, this subsection shall not prohibit the
following:
      (1)   The sale of food products at a city-approved event;
      (2)   Use of a motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container in
connection with an approved recycling operation;
      (3)   Use of a trailer or shipping container in conjunction with
construction authorized by a valid building permit; or
      (4)   Use of a trailer or shipping container for the temporary loading
and unloading of goods, provided that no individual trailer or container is in
place longer than 48 hours.
      (5)   Outdoor retailers with a valid business license.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 27-16, passed 5-9-17)
   § 164.04-05 Standards For Specific Accessory Uses and Structures.
   (A)   Boat or marine repair (outdoor). Boat or marine repair occurring
outdoors shall:
      (1)   Not include the dry stacking of boats or hulls;
      (2)   Occur to the side or rear of a principal structure; and
      (3)   Be fully screened from single- or two-family structures on a
different lot.
   (B)   Food sales (indoor). Food sales occurring as an accessory use shall
comply with the following standards:
      (1)   The amount of square footage utilized by food sales operations
(including preparation, sales, and storage, but not including dining) shall not
exceed 30% of the principal use where located.
      (2)   To the maximum extent practicable, food sales areas shall be
internal to the principal use they serve.
      (3)   Entrance to the food sales area shall be via the principal use it
serves, and food sales uses shall not have dedicated off-street parking areas
or signage.
   (C)   Home occupations. A home occupation shall be permitted as accessory to
any principal dwelling unit, provided that:
      (1)   Size/area. The business or service is located within the dwelling
or an associated accessory building, and does not exceed 30% of the heated
floor area of the principal structure or 600 square feet, whichever is less.
      (2)   Employees and residency.
         (a)   The principal person or persons providing the business or
service resides in the dwelling on the premises.
         (b)   The home occupation employs no more than one person who does not
reside on the premises.
      (3)   Neighborhood compatibility.
         (a)   The home occupation causes no change in the external appearance
of the existing dwelling and structures on the property.
         (b)   All vehicles used in connection with the home occupation are of
a size, and located on the premises in such a manner, so as to not disrupt the
quiet nature and visual quality of the neighborhood, and there are no more than
two vehicles per home occupation.
         (c)   There is sufficient off-street parking for patrons of the home
occupation, with the number of off-street parking spaces required for the home
occupation to be provided and maintained in addition to the space or spaces
required for the dwelling itself in accordance with § 166.06, Off-Street
Parking and Loading.
         (d)   There are no advertising devices on the property, or other signs
of the home occupation, which are visible from outside the dwelling or
accessory building.
         (e)   The property contains no outdoor display or storage of goods or
services that are associated with the home occupation.
         (f)   Wholesale or retail sales of goods do not occur on the premises.
         (g)   The home occupation does not create traffic or parking
congestion, noise, vibration, odor, glare, fumes, or electrical or
communications interference which can be detected by the normal senses off the
premises, including visual or audible interference with radio or television
reception.
   (D)   Laundry facilities. Laundry facilities shall be internal to the use
they serve, be accessed from the principal use, and shall not have dedicated
parking or signage.
   (E)   Neighborhood recreation center. A neighborhood recreation center
shall:
      (1)   Provide parking in accordance with the standards for an outdoor
commercial recreation use, except that the total number of off-street parking
spaces may be reduced by 0.25 spaces for every dwelling unit within 500 feet of
the lot or site containing the center; and
      (2)   Be surrounded by a fence meeting the standards of § 166.09, Fences
and Walls.
   (F)   Outdoor display and sales. It is the intent of this ZDO to allow the
display of merchandise for sale, but not where the display of such items
impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or creates an unsafe
condition. This shall not include hazardous and flammable materials, such as
gasoline, oil, antifreeze, kerosene, poisons, pesticides and similar items. The
display of goods shall meet all of the following standards.
      (1)   Procedure. All applications for a site plan, § 162.03-06, or zoning
permit, §
162.03-13, must show the location of such areas in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   Location and dimensions.
         (a)   All outdoor display of goods shall be located immediately
adjacent to the storefront, or building sides, and not in drive aisles, loading
zones, fire lanes, or parking lots.
         (b)   Outdoor display areas shall be limited to no more than one-half
of the length of the store front or building side, unless increased by the
Zoning Administrator after taking into account aesthetic and safety concerns.
         (c)   The area used for outdoor display or sales shall not occur on
the rear of buildings.
         (d)   In the case of a shopping center, the "storefront" shall include
the entire frontage of the shopping center, meaning that the total amount of
display for all the in-line tenants combined shall not exceed 50% of the
aggregate store front of the total shopping center.
         (e)   The area of outdoor display or sales shall not encompass the
width of the entrance doors to the establishment as projected straight out from
the facility. (For example, if the width of the entrance doors is ten feet,
there shall be at least a ten-foot clearance from the doors as projected
straight out and away from the facility.)
         (f)   The height of the outdoor display shall not exceed six feet.
         (g)   The outdoor display area shall take place on an improved surface
such as the sidewalk or pavement.
      (3)   No pedestrian obstruction.  At least five feet along the parking
lot side of the display shall be maintained free of obstruction to allow for
pedestrian and handicap movement, such that handicapped pedestrians and others
do not have to enter the parking lot or drive aisle to walk around the display.
      (4)   Temporary sales distinguished. The provisions of this section shall
not apply in cases of temporary sales events, such as weekend sidewalk sales,
seasonal sales and other similar temporary uses. See § 164.05, Temporary Uses
and Structures, for regulations applying to temporary sales.
   (G)   Outdoor storage (as an accessory use). Outdoor storage (as an
accessory use) shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Each outdoor storage area shall be incorporated into the overall
design of the principal structure on the site and shall be located at the rear
of the principal structure.
      (2)   Goods stored in an outdoor storage area which are intended for re-
sale shall be limited to those sold on the premises as part of an associated,
additional principal use.
      (3)   Each outdoor storage area shall be screened from view from all
property lines and adjacent rights-of-way by an opaque fence or wall between
six and eight feet in height that incorporates at least one of the predominant
materials and one of the predominant colors used in the primary structure.
Materials may not be stored higher than the height of the primary structure.
      (4)   A landscaped earth berm may be used instead of or in combination
with a fence or wall.
      (5)   If the outdoor storage area is covered, then the covering shall
include at least one of the predominant exposed roofing colors on the primary
structure.
      (6)   No materials may be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
   (H)   Retail sales and services.  
      (1)   All retail sales shall be conducted within the same structure
housing the principal use, and no outdoor retail sales activity shall be
allowed.
      (2)   There shall be no additional advertising for the retail sales
operation.
      (3)   Maximum gross floor area of the accessory retail use shall be
either 10% of the total gross floor area of the principal use or 2,500 square
feet, whichever is less.
      (4)   Parking for the retail accessory use is provided according to the
off-street parking standards for retail uses as stated in Table 166.07, Minimum
Off-Street Parking Standards.
   (I)   Swimming pool or hot tub. Swimming pools, hot tubs, and ornamental
ponds, and pools shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   All swimming pools shall be located at least five feet from any lot
line.
      (2)   All swimming pools and ornamental ponds and pools having a depth
greater than 24 inches and all hot tubs and spas shall be enclosed by fencing
of a type that is not readily accessible by children and that contains no
opening larger than four inches.
      (3)   Fencing shall be not less than four feet in height and, if equipped
with a gate, shall have a latch.
      (4)   In lieu of fencing, spas and hot tubs may have a lockable cover
capable of supporting a minimum of 150 pounds, and such cover shall be locked
when the spa or hot tub is not in use.
   (J)   Vehicle storage. Storage of vehicles, trailers, or major recreational
equipment that does not have a current license plate shall only occur within an
enclosed structure or be screened from off-site views.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 164.05 TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   § 164.05-01 Purpose.  
   This section allows for the establishment of certain temporary uses of
limited duration, provided that such uses are discontinued upon the expiration
of a set time period. Temporary uses do not involve the construction or
alteration of any permanent building or structure.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 164.05-02 Table of Allowed Temporary Uses and Structures.
    
Table 164.03, Temporary Uses and Structures, summarizes the temporary uses and
structures that are allowed within the city and any general or specific
standards that apply. Temporary uses or structures not listed in
Table 164.03, Temporary Uses and Structures, are not allowed by this ZDO.
TABLE 164.03: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
TEMPORARY USE OR STRUCTURE MAX. TIME FRAME SPECIFIC REGULATIONS (1)
TABLE 164.03: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
TEMPORARY USE OR STRUCTURE           MAX. TIME FRAME SPECIFIC REGULATIONS (1)
TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
Expansion or replacement of existing
facilities (including temporary      (2)             Permit required; see §
offices for construction or security                 162.03-12
personnel)
Construction-related activities for  (2)             No permit required
new construction
Temporary storage in a portable      (5)             Permit required; see §
shipping container                                   162.03-12
Tents (on the beach)                 (3)             Permit required; see §
                                                     162.03-12
TEMPORARY SALES
Sale/display of goods other than     (4)             Permit required; see §
agricultural products                                162.03-12
Garage or yard sale                  (5)             No permit required
Temporary not-for-profit car wash    (5)             Permit required; see §
                                                     162.03-12
NOTES:
(1)   Persons conducting temporary sales should contact the Zoning
Administrator to ensure that permits are not required by the City Code of
Ordinances. In no instance shall a single-family dwelling receive more than a
total of six temporary use permits per calendar year.
(2)    Such structures may be in place for no more than two years.
(3)   Such structures may be in place for no more than seven days per
occurrence.
(4)   Such sales are limited to a maximum of 120 days per calendar year and
no more than three occurrences per parcel, per year.
(5)   Such events are limited to 14 total days per calendar year, per parcel.
(6)   Such structures may be in place for no more than 30 days per calendar
year, and no more than three occurrences per parcel, per year.
 
(Ord. 5-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 27-13, passed 2-25-14)
   § 164.05-03 Prohibited Temporary Uses.
   Without limiting the standards of this ZDO, the following activities are
prohibited in all districts:
   (A)   Retail sales or display of goods, products, or services within the
public right-of-way except as part of an authorized not-for-profit, special, or
city-recognized event.
   (B)   Except as part of a permitted seasonal sale, retail sales or display
of goods, products, or services from a motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping
container.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 164.05-04 Temporary Use Permits.
   All temporary uses and structures required to obtain a temporary use permit
in accordance with
Table 164.03, Temporary Uses and Structures, shall obtain a temporary use
permit in accordance with §
162.03-12, Temporary Use Permit. A temporary use permit shall be reviewed,
approved, approved with conditions, or denied only in accordance with the
standards of this section.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 164.05-05 General Standards For All Temporary Uses and Structures.
   All temporary uses, structures, or special events shall meet the following
general standards, unless otherwise specified in this ZDO:
   (A)   The temporary use or structure shall not be detrimental to property or
improvements in the surrounding area or to the public health, safety, or
general welfare.
   (B)   All temporary uses, even those requiring no temporary use permit shall
be subject to the requirements in the city Code of Ordinances or other
provisions related to business licenses, vendor permits, or other city
authorization.
   (C)   The temporary use or structure shall not have substantial adverse
effects or noise impacts on nearby residential neighborhoods.
   (D)   The temporary uses shall comply with all applicable standards of §
164.05-05, General Standards for All Temporary Uses and Structures, and §
164.05-06, Specific Regulations for Certain Temporary Uses and Structures,
unless otherwise expressly stated.
   (E)   Permanent alterations to the site are prohibited.
   (F)   Temporary signs associated with the temporary use or structure shall
be removed when the activity ends.
   (G)   The temporary use or structure shall not violate any applicable
conditions of approval that applies to a principal use on the site.
   (H)   If the property is undeveloped, it shall contain sufficient land area
to allow the temporary use or structure to occur, as well as adequate land to
accommodate any parking and traffic movement associated with the temporary use,
without disturbing environmentally-sensitive lands. No temporary use shall
disturb beach dunes and related vegetation.
   (I)   If the property is developed, the temporary use or structure must be
located in an area that is not actively used by an existing approved principal
use, which would support the proposed temporary use without encroaching or
creating a negative impact on existing buffers, open space, landscaping,
traffic movements, pedestrian circulation, sensitive or protected resources, or
parking space availability.
   (J)   Tents and other temporary structures will be located so as to not
interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use located on the
property.
   (K)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided to accommodate the
proposed temporary use.
   (L)   All inspections and permits required by applicable building codes
shall be approved by the appropriate person or agencies.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 27-13, passed 2-25-14)
   § 164.05-06 Specific Regulations for Certain Temporary Uses and Structures.
   (A)   Expansion or replacement of existing facilities.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. Factory-fabricated, transportable buildings that
are designed to arrive at the site ready for occupancy (except for minor
unpacking and connection to utilities), may be placed on land to serve as the
following:
         (a)   Expansion space for existing religious institutions, health care
facilities, and government offices, provided plans for the permanent expansion
of the existing facilities have been submitted to and been approved by the
city.
         (b)   Temporary classroom space to augment an existing public school.
         (c)   Temporary offices for construction and security personnel during
the construction of a development for which the city has issued a building
permit.
         (d)   Temporary quarters for nonresidential uses when the permanent
building has been destroyed by a fire or other physical catastrophe, provided a
building permit for the permanent facility is obtained within four months after
approval of the temporary quarters. The Zoning Administrator may approve a
written request for an extension of an additional 90 days for good cause shown.
Failure to obtain a building permit within the time frame allowed will revoke
approval for the temporary quarters.
         (e)   One temporary office per site to include, but not be limited to,
the following uses: hiring, membership solicitation, multiple family
development office/leasing, and other general office uses. The number of
modular buildings housing such uses shall be limited to one, in addition to
those already allowed by this section. Such modular buildings shall not be
placed on the property prior to the issuance of a building permit.
         (f)   A temporary residence used for housing occupants of an on-site
existing principal dwelling unit subject to casualty damage.
      (2)   Standards. In addition to meeting the general standards of §
164.05-05, General Standards for All Temporary Uses and Structures, all
temporary structures approved in accordance with this section shall meet the
following standards:
         (a)   Temporary structures allowed under §
164.05-06(A), Expansion or Replacement of Existing Facilities, may be located
anywhere on site, except within the following areas:
            1.   Existing required landscaping or perimeter buffer areas;
            2.   Areas designated as future required landscaping areas whether
or not vegetation currently exists; and
            3.   Other areas designated on the site for open space, vehicular
use, or ingress/egress.
         (b)   In addition to any other off-street parking required on the site
in accordance with §
166.06, Off-Street Parking and Loading, adequate off-street parking shall be
provided for the temporary use;
         (c)   All permits required by applicable building, electrical,
plumbing, and mechanical codes shall be obtained prior to installation of the
temporary structure; and
         (d)   The temporary structure shall be compatible with the existing
buildings on the site in terms of exterior color.
      (3)   Duration.
         (a)   Temporary structures under this subsection may remain on the
site for no more than 12 months. This period may be renewed for two 12-month
periods, for good cause shown, upon approval of a written request for such
extension, submitted to the Zoning Administrator, 30 days prior to the
expiration of the temporary use permit. Except for temporary classrooms, in no
event, shall the extension allow the temporary structure to remain on the site
for more than two years.
         (b)   Temporary classrooms for use as part of an existing school may
be allowed to remain on the site for longer than two years.
   (B)   Temporary storage in a portable shipping container, POD, or similar
device. Temporary storage in a portable shipping container, POD, or similar
device shall be subject to the standards in this section.
      (1)   To the maximum extent practicable, portable shipping containers
shall not be located in the front yard.
      (2)   No portable shipping container shall be located within ten feet of
any lot line.
      (3)   The on-site placement of a portable shipping container for
temporary storage shall be allowed on an individual parcel or site for no more
than 90 total days in any rolling 12-month period unless located on an active
construction site or approved by the Building Official.
      (4)   Any portable shipping container, POD, or similar device used for
storage between May 1st and December 1st shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (5)   Any portable shipping container, POD, or similar device used for
storage remaining more than 90 days shall be considered an accessory structure
and be subject to all relevant building and zoning codes.
      (6)   The Building Official must approve the simultaneous placement of
more than one portable shipping container per site.
   (C)   Sale/display of goods other than agricultural products. Merchants may
display or sell goods in the city on a temporary basis without establishing a
permanent place of business, subject to the standards of this section.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   The outdoor display or sale of goods consistent with the
provisions of §
164.04-05(F), Outdoor Display and Sales, is considered an accessory use and
does not require a temporary use permit.
         (b)   All other sales/displays of goods (other than agricultural
products) require a temporary use permit in accordance with §
162.03-12, Temporary Use Permit, and this subsection.
      (2)   Standards. A temporary use for the temporary display or sale of
products shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The property contains an area that is not actively used that
will support the proposed temporary sale of products without encroaching into
or creating a negative impact on existing buffers, open space, landscaping,
traffic movements, or parking space availability.
         (b)   The proposed display or sale of goods, products, or services for
commercial purposes may not occur within 200 feet of a residential dwelling
unit.
         (c)   A temporary display or sale of products, goods or services for
commercial purposes shall be limited in scope to similar or complimentary
products, goods, or services to those offered by the existing principal use
located on the same site. The temporary sale of non-agricultural products,
goods, or services that differ from the normal range of those offered by an
existing principal use shall be prohibited.
         (d)   Tents and other temporary structures will be located so as not
to interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use located on the
property.
         (e)   Off-street parking is adequate to accommodate the proposed sale
of products.
         (f)   The temporary sale of products will not cause interference with
the movement of emergency vehicles to such an extent that adequate police,
fire, or other emergency services cannot be provided.
         (g)   The hours of operation of the temporary sale of products shall
be from no earlier than 7:30 a.m. to no later than 10:00 p.m., or the same as
the hours of operation of the principal use, whichever is more restrictive.
      (3)   Duration; sales per year.
         (a)   The temporary sale of non-agricultural products shall be allowed
on an individual parcel or site for no more than 120 total days per calendar
year.
         (b)   The number of temporary sales of products per site per calendar
year shall not exceed three.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 27-13, passed 2-25-14; Am. Ord. 022-21,
passed 9-14-21)
CHAPTER 165: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Section
   
165.01   Dimensional standards table
      
165.01-01   Purpose and intent
      
165.01-02   Dimensional standards in the zoning districts
   
165.02   Measurements and exceptions
      
165.02-01   Lots
      
165.02-02   Required yards
      
165.02-03   Height
      
165.02-04   Bulk
§ 165.01 DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS TABLE.
   § 165.01-01 Purpose and Intent.
   The purpose of this section is to present the density and dimensional
standards for all principal and accessory uses allowed in this ZDO. These
standards may be further modified by other applicable sections of this ZDO.
Rules of measurement are set forth in § 165.02, Measurements and Exceptions.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 165.01-02 Dimensional Standards in the Zoning Districts.
   Unless otherwise specified, all principal and accessory structures in the
zoning districts are subject to the dimensional standards set forth in
Table 165.01, Dimensional Standards.
TABLE 165.01: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS (1)
          LOT AREA                            SETBACKS (2)         MAX. HEIGHT
ZONING                                                             (9)
DISTRICT/ Density Max. Lot Min. Lot  Min. Lot Front Each Side Rear
USE       (DU/Sq. Coverage Area      Width    (Ft)  (Ft)      (Ft)
          Ft.)             (Sq. Ft.) (Ft)
TABLE 165.01: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS (1)
                                                                                                       MAX.
          LOT AREA                        SETBACKS (2)                                                 HEIGHT
ZONING                                                                                                 (9)
DISTRICT/ Density          Min. Lot Min.        Each
USE       (DU/Sq. Max. Lot Area     Lot   Front Side  Rear
          Ft.)    Coverage (Sq.     Width (Ft)  (Ft)  (Ft)
                           Ft.)     (Ft)
RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY (RSF)
                                                                                                       34'
                                                14.3%                                                  above
                  35% of   10,500               of                                                     the top
All uses  1/      high     per      70    10    lot   10                                               of the
          10,500  ground   dwelling             width                                                  first
                                                (8)                                                    living
                                                                                                       floor
                                                                                                       surface
RESIDENTIAL TWO-FAMILY (RTF)
                                                                                                       34'
          1/5,250                               14.3%                                                  above
          (up to  35% of                        of                                                     the top
All uses  4 per   high     10,500   70    10    lot   10                                               of the
          acre    ground                        width                                                  first
          max.)                                 (8)                                                    living
                                                                                                       floor
                                                                                                       surface
RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY (RMF)
                                                                                                       24'
                           3,500                                                                       above
          1/3,500          per                                                                         the top
          (up to  35% of   multi-                                                                      of the
All uses  12 per  high     family   70    10    5     10                                               first
          acre    ground   dwelling                                                                    living
          max.)            unit                                                                        floor
                                                                                                       surface
                                                                                                       (4)
MARSH INLAND RESIDENTIAL (MR)
                                                                                                       34'
                                                                                                       above
                  30% of                                                                               the top
All uses  1/      high     14,500   70    25    15    25                                               of the
          14,500  ground                                                                               first
                                                                                                       living
                                                                                                       floor
                                                                                                       surface
DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL (DC)
                                                                                                       34'
          1/                                                                                           above
Single-   10,500                                14.3%                                                  the top
and two-  (up to                                of                                                     of the
family    4 per            10,500         10    lot   10                                               first
uses      acre                                  width                                                  living
          max.)                                 (8)                                                    floor
                                                                                                       surface
                                                                                                       (4)
                  50% of   2,625
Outdoor          high     per      35
retailers         ground   outdoor                                                                     40'
                  (3)      retailer                                                                    above
                                                14.3%                                                  the
                                                of                                                     centerli
                                          10    lot   10                                               ne of
All other                                       width                                                  the
uses      N/A              5,250                (8)                                                    nearest
                                                                                                       street
                                                                                                       (4)


ISLAND COMMERCIAL (IC)
          1/
Single-   10,500
and two-  (up to           10,500
family    4 per                                                                                        34'
uses      acre                                                                                         above
          max.)                                                                                        the top
                                                                                                       of the
                                          10    10    10                                               first
                                                                                                       living
                           3,500                                                                       floor
                         per unit                                                                    surface
                                                                                                       (4)
                  35% (3)           70


                                                                                                       40'
                                                                                                       above
                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                       centerli
All other 1/5,250          5,250          10    10                                                     ne of
uses                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                       nearest
                                                                                                       public
                                                                                                       street
                                                                                                       (4)
MARINE COMMERCIAL (MC)
                                                                                                       34'
          1/                                                                                           above
Single-   10,500                                                                                       the top
and two-  (up to                                                                                       of the
family    4 per   35% (3)  10,500                                                                      first
uses      acre                                                                                         living
          max.)                                                                                        floor
                                                                                                       surface
                                    35    10    5     10                                               (4)
                                                                                                       34'
                                                                                                       above
                                                                                                       the top
All other                                                                                              of the
uses      N/A     35%      (6)                                                                         first
                                                                                                       living
                                                                                                       floor
                                                                                                       surface
                                                                                                       (4)
CORRIDOR COMMERCIAL (CC)
          1/
Single-   10,500
and two-  (up to           10,500
family    4 per                                                                                        24'
uses      acre                                                                                         above
          max.)                                                                                        the top
                  35% (3)           50    10    5     10                                               of the
                                                                                                       first
Multi-                                                                                                 living
family    12               3,500                                                                       floor
uses                       per unit                                                                    surface



                                                                                                       34'
                                                                                                       above
                                                                                                       the top
All other                                       None required except when abutting RSF, RTF, or RMF;   of the
uses      N/A     35% (3)  5,250    50    None  then greater of ½ structure height or 15 feet         first
                                                                                                       living
                                                                                                       floor
                                                                                                       surface
                                                                                                       (4)
CONSERVATION (CN)
                                                                                                       Lesser
                                                                                                       of one
All uses  N/A     5%       10,500   20    10    10    25                                               story or
(7)                                                                                                    20'
                                                                                                       above
                                                                                                       BFE
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD)
See §
163.05
NOTES:
(1)   Uses may also be subject to district-specific standards (
Chapter 163), use-specific standards (
Chapter 164), or design standards (
Chapter 166) that further limit these standards.
(2)   Required setbacks may be increased in accordance with the standards in §
166.04-03, Marsh Buffers, and §
166.04-04, Beach and Dune Management Area (if applicable).
(3)   Single- and two-family structures are subject to maximum floor area ratio limitations in §
166.05-03, Single-and Two-Family Design Standards (as appropriate).
(4)   Multi-family uses are limited to a maximum of two stories (measured from the top of the first living
floor surface). Nonresidential uses in the DC and IC Districts are limited to a maximum of three stories.
Rooftop decks and parking areas greater than seven feet in height located below the first finished floor shall
constitute a story for the purpose of measuring height.
(5)   New development fronting Center Street shall be built to the edge of the street right-of-way, to the
maximum extent practicable.
(6)   There is no minimum lot size except where required by SCDES for on-site wastewater facilities.
(7)   There shall also be a setback of 25 feet from the SCDES critical line in the CN district.
(8)   Side setbacks shall be a minimum of five and a maximum of ten feet. Eaves may extend into the required
setback up to 18". HVAC platforms may extend into the required setback up to 5' on side of the structure, but
cannot be located on both sides.
(9)   Max height shall not exceed height regulated in §
90.05.
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 25-12, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 03-13,
passed 4-9-13; Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 03-19, passed 4-9-19;
Am. Ord. 16-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 11-21, passed 5-11-21; Am. Ord. 009-22,
passed 6-14-22; Am. Ord. 011-22, passed 9-13-22; Am. Ord. 003-24, passed 4-9-
24; Am. Ord. 004-24, passed 4-9-24; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
§ 165.02 MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   § 165.02-01 Lots.
   (A)   Definitions/measurement.
      (1)   High ground. The portion of a lot located outside of OCRM critical
areas or landward of the SCDES Baseline, wetlands, marsh, and other resource
protection areas.
      (2)   Lot area. Lot area means the amount of land area, measured
horizontally, included within the lines of a lot. Lands located within any
private easements shall be included within the lot area. Public rights-of-way,
lands set aside for public utilities, parks, open space including any area
seaward of the SCDES baseline or beyond the SCDES critical line, or schools
shall not be included in calculating lot area, except where specifically
allowed by this ZDO.
      (3)   Lot coverage. The portion of a lot covered by impervious surfaces
(including driveways, patios, pools, decks, and similar features).
      (4)   Lot depth. Lot depth means the horizontal distance between the
midpoints of straight lines connecting the front lot line and the rear lot
line.
      (5)   Lot frontage. Lot frontage means the portion of a lot along a
street from which the lot derives its street address. In the case of a building
lot abutting upon only one street, the frontage line is the line parallel to
and common with the right-of-way. In the case of a corner lot, that part of the
building lot having the narrowest frontage on any street shall be considered
the frontage line. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as required in this ZDO.
      (6)   Lot line. Lot lines mean the lines bounding a lot as established by
ownership.
      (7)   Lot width. The distance between straight lines connecting front and
rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured at the front building setback
line.
      (8)    Lot types. Lot types mean corner lots, interior lots, through
lots, and reversed frontage lots, as depicted in Figure 165.01, Lot Types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6999.jpg]
 
         (a)   Corner lot. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets (other than alleys), regardless of whether or not such streets
intersect at right angles. See lots marked "A " in Figure 165.01: Lot Types.
         (b)   Interior lot. A lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street other than an alley. See lots marked "B" in Figure 165.01:
Lot Types.
         (c)   Double frontage lot. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage
on more than one street other than an alley. Through lots with frontage on two
streets may be referred to as "double frontage lots". See lot marked "C" in
Figure 165.01: Lot Types.
      (9)   Rear lot line. The rear lot line is the line connecting the two
side lot lines along the edge of the lot opposite from the frontage line.
      (10)   Side lot line. The side lot line is the lot line connecting the
front and rear lot lines regardless of whether it abuts a right-of-way or
another lot line.
   (B)   General lot requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot dimensions. Any lot that is developed shall meet the
minimum lot area, width, and coverage standards established in
Table 165.01, Dimensional Standards, for the zoning district in which it is
located, except as otherwise established by this ZDO for particular uses.
      (2)   Erection of more than one principal structure on a platted lot.
Whenever any land is subdivided, a building permit for the construction of a
building or other principal structure (excluding buildings under common
ownership or unified control) shall not be issued unless the land is subdivided
in accordance with to the procedures and standards of this ZDO.
      (3)   Lots divided by zoning district lines. Whenever a single lot is
located within two or more different zoning districts, each portion of that lot
shall be subject to all the regulations applicable to the district in which it
is located.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 05-21, passed 3-10-2021; Am. Ord. 001-25,
passed 2-11-25)
   § 165.02-02 Required Yards.
   (A)   Definitions/measurement.
      (1)   Building setback line. The building setback line is a line located
at the inside edge of a required front, side, or rear yard. Structures may not
encroach over a building setback line except as allowed in this ZDO.
      (2)   Right-of-way.  Right-of-way means land dedicated, deeded, used, or
to be used for a street, road, alley, pedestrian way, crosswalk, bikeway,
drainage facility, or other public uses, wherein the owner gives up rights to
the land so long as it is being or will be used for the dedicated purpose.
Right-of-way also is a land measurement term, meaning the distance between lot
property lines which generally contain not only the street pavement, but also
the sidewalk, grass area, and underground or aboveground utilities.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7001.jpg]
 
      (3)   Yard. A required open area unoccupied and unobstructed by any
building or by any structure or portion of a structure except as allowed by
this ZDO. Fences, walls, and incidental structures (e.g., flagpoles, birdhouses
or feeders, clothesline posts, etc.) may be permitted within a yard in
accordance with the standards in §
166.08, Fences and Walls, and §
167.01-04(C)(5), Sight Distance Triangle.
      (4)   Yard, front.
         (a)   General. A yard extending between side lot lines across the
front of a lot between the frontage line and the front building setback line.
Fences or walls shall be in accordance with the standards in §
166.08, Fences and Walls.
         (b)   Double frontage lots. In the case of double frontage lots, yards
areas meeting the standard for a front yard shall be provided on both
frontages. Where one of the front yards that would normally be required on a
through lot is not in keeping with the prevailing yard pattern, the Zoning
Administrator may waive the requirement and substitute a special yard
requirement which shall not exceed the average of the yards provided on
adjacent lots.
         (c)    Corner lots. In the case of corner lots, a front yard of the
required depth shall be provided between the lot frontage line and the front
building setback, and a yard equaling half the depth of the required front yard
shall be provided on any other frontage.
         (d)   Front yard depth required. Depth of required front yards shall
be measured at right angles to a straight line joining the foremost points of
the side lot lines. The foremost point of the side lot line, in the case of
rounded property corners at street intersections, shall be assumed to be the
point at which the side and front lot lines would have met without such
rounding. Front and rear lines of a required front yard shall be parallel.
      (5)   Yard, side.
         (a)   Generally. A yard extending from the front building setback line
to rear building setback line. In the case of through lots, the side yard
extends from the front building setback line to the opposing building setback
line associated with the other yard. In the case of corner lots, the yards
remaining after full and half-depth front yards have been established shall be
considered to be side yards.
         (b)   Side yard width required. Width of required side yards shall be
measured at right angles to a straight line joining the ends of front and rear
lot lines on the same side of the lot. The inner side yard line of a required
side yard shall be parallel to the straight line so established.
      (6)   Yard, rear.
         (a)   Generally. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between
the rear lot line and the rear building setback line. In the case of through
lots, there will be no rear yard.
         (b)   Rear yard depth required. Depth of required rear yards shall be
measured at right angles to a straight line joining the rearmost points of the
side lot lines. The rear building setback line shall be parallel to the
straight line so established.
   (B)   Yard encroachments. Every part of every required yard shall be open
and unobstructed from the ground to the sky except as otherwise permitted in
this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 165.02-03 Height.
   (A)   Definition/measurement.
      (1)   Top of the first living floor surface. The surface area of the
first floor of habitable conditioned space, and the starting elevation used to
determine the maximum height of a structure.
      (2)   Building height.  Height of building means the vertical distance
measured from the top of the first living floor surface.
      (3)   Exclusions from height limitations. The height limitations included
in Table 165.01, Dimensional Standards, do not apply to spires, ventilators,
and chimneys; however, the heights of these structures or appurtenances shall
not exceed any height limitations prescribed by the Federal Aviation
Administration.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 03-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 11-21,
passed 5-11-21)
   § 165.02-04 Bulk.
   (A)   Definition/measurement.
      (1)   Density, gross. Gross density means the number of dwelling units
permitted per gross acre of land and is determined by dividing the number of
units by the total area of land within the boundaries of a parcel of land
including existing streets, dedicated rights-of-way, tree protection zones, and
open space set-asides, except as otherwise provided for in this ZDO. In the
determination of the number of units to be permitted on a specific parcel of
land, a fractional unit equal to or greater than one-half of a unit shall be
rounded up to equal a full unit. A fractional unit less than one-half of a unit
shall be rounded down, and not counted as a unit.
      (2)   Lot coverage.  Lot coverage is a measure of intensity of a use of
land that represents the portion of a site that is covered by impervious
surfaces. This portion includes, but is not limited to areas covered by
structures (including covered decks), parked structures, driveways, streets,
sidewalks, and any other areas covered by an impervious surface material,
including areas of outdoor storage and swimming pools.
      (3)   Floor area. Floor area means, except as may be otherwise indicated
in relation to particular districts and uses, the sum of the gross horizontal
areas of the several floors of a building measured from the exterior faces of
the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings,
excluding attic areas with a headroom of less than seven feet, unenclosed
stairs or fire escapes, elevator structures, cooling towers, areas devoted to
air conditioning, ventilating or heating or other building machinery and
equipment, parking structures and basement space where the ceiling is not more
than 48 inches above the general finished and graded level of the adjacent part
of the lot.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 166: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section
   
166.01   Tree protection
      
166.01-01   Purpose and intent
      
166.01-02   Applicability
      
166.01-03   Retention of trees
      
166.01-04   Tree protection during construction
      
166.01-05   Penalty
   
166.02   Landscaping standards
      
166.02-01   Purpose and intent
      
166.02-02   Applicability
      
166.02-03   General requirements for landscaping
      
166.02-04    Site landscaping
      
166.02-05   Vehicular use area landscaping
      
166.02-06   Perimeter buffers
      
166.02-07   Screening
      
166.02-08   Alternative landscaping plan
      
166.02-09   Other landscape standards
   
166.03   Open space standards
      
166.03-01   Purpose
      
166.03-02   Applicability
      
166.03-03   General requirements
      
166.03-04   Design standards for open space set-asides
      
166.03-05   Ownership of open space set-asides
      
166.03-06   Maintenance of open space set-asides
   
166.04   Environmental standards
      
166.04-01   Purpose and intent
      
166.04-02   Time of review
      
166.04-03   Marsh buffers
      
166.04-04   Dune Management Area
      
166.04-05   Stormwater management
      
166.04-06   Environmental impact analysis
      
166.04-07   Standards for waterways
   
166.05   Design standards
      
166.05-01   Purpose and intent
      
166.05-02   Application to existing structures
      
166.05-03   Single- and two-family design standards
      
166.05-04   Multi-family design standards
      
166.05-05   Commercial design standards
      
166.05-06   Transitional design standards
   
166.06   Off-street parking and loading
      
166.06-01   Purpose and intent
      
166.06-02   Applicability
      
166.06-03   General standards for off-street parking and loading areas
      
166.06-04   Off-street parking standards
      
166.06-05   Computation of required off-street parking spaces
      
166.06-06   Accessible parking spaces for disabled persons
      
166.06-07   Dimensional standards for parking spaces and aisles
      
166.06-08   Bicycle facilities
      
166.06-09   Alternative parking plan
      
166.06-10   Loading space standards
      
166.06-11   Driveways
   
166.07   Transportation impact analysis
   
166.08   Sign standards
      
166.08-01   Purpose and intent
      
166.08-02   Applicability
      
166.08-03   Prohibited signs
      
166.08-04   Standards for permanent and temporary signs not requiring sign
permits
      
166.08-05   Standards for signs requiring sign permits
      
166.08-06   Additional sign standards in the commercial districts
      
166.08-07   Nonconforming signs
   
166.09   Fences and walls
      
166.09-01   Purpose
      
166.09-02   Applicability
      
166.09-03   General requirements for fences and walls
      
166.09-04   Height requirements for fences and walls
      
166.09-05   Perimeter fences and walls abutting public rights-of-way
      
166.09-06   Visibility clearance
      
166.09-07   Prohibited fences
      
166.09-08   Appearance of fences and walls
   
166.10   Exterior lighting
      
166.10-01   Purpose
      
166.10-02   Applicability
      
166.10-03   Exemptions
      
166.10-04   Design standards for exterior lighting
      
166.10-05   Wall-mounted lights
      
166.10-06   Floodlights and spotlights
      
166.10-07   Wall pack lights
      
166.10-08   Illumination of outdoor sports fields and performance areas
      
166.10-09   Sign lighting
   
166.11   Affordable housing
   
166.12   Protection of historic sites and structures
   
166.13   Pedestrian improvements
§ 166.01 TREE PROTECTION.
   § 166.01-01 Purpose and Intent.
   This section is intended to:
   (A)   Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of Folly Beach;
   (B)   Ensure that excessive tree cutting does not reduce property values;
   (C)   Preserve protected trees;
   (D)   Establish the standards of review for tree alteration permits (See §
162.03-10);
   (E)   Encourage site design techniques that preserve the natural environment
and enhance the developed environment;
   (F)   Control erosion and sediment run-off into waterways;
   (G)   Improve surface drainage and minimize flooding;
   (H)   Protect wildlife and marine habitat; and
   (I)   Conserve energy, reduce noise, heat, and glare caused by excessive
tree cutting;
   (J)   Promote commerce and tourism by buffering different uses and
beautifying the landscape.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 29-12, passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 029-21,
passed 12-14-21)
   § 166.01-02 Applicability.
   (A)   Tree alteration permit required.  
      (1)   General.  No removal of trees or pruning of limbs over six inches
diameter at the nearest juncture, shall occur prior to issuance of a tree
alteration permit (See §
162.03-10, Tree Alteration Permit). All fees collected for the issuance of a
tree alteration permit shall be placed in the Folly Beach Tree Fund.
      (2)   Responsibility for compliance. Review for compliance with the
standards of this section shall occur at the time of application for a site
plan, §
162.03-06; minor subdivision, §
162.03-07(C); preliminary plat for subdivision, §
162.03-07(D); planned development, §
162.03-02; or tree alteration permit, §
162.03-10, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   Trees designated as protected trees. 
Table 166.02, Protected Trees, sets out the types and sizes of trees to be
treated as protected trees. Trees not meeting the minimum size requirements in
Table 166.02 shall not be considered protected trees.
TABLE 166.02: PROTECTED TREES
SPECIES COMMON NAME MINIMUM SIZE (inches) (1)
TABLE 166.02: PROTECTED TREES
SPECIES              COMMON NAME                MINIMUM SIZE (inches) (1)
Magnolia grandiflora Southern Magnolia          12 (DBH)
Quercus Phellos      Willow Oak                 12 (DBH)
Magnolia virginiana  Sweet Bay Magnolia         12 (DBH)
Quercus virginiana   Live Oak                   6 (DBH)
Quercus launfolia    Laurel Oak                 12 (DBH)
Acer rubrum          Red Maple                  12 (DBH)
Juniperus virginiana Eastern Red Cedar          12 (DBH)
Sabal palmetto       Cabbage Palm or Sabal Palm 12 (DBH)
Ilex opaca           American Holly             12 (DBH)
Cornus florida       Flowering Dogwood          12 (DBH)
NOTES:
(1) DBH = Diameter at breast height measured 4.5 feet above grade.
 
   (C)   Tree protection exemptions. The following development and activities
are exempt from the standards of this section:
      (1)   Removal of dead and nuisance vegetation. The removal of dead or
naturally fallen trees or vegetation, or vegetation that is determined by the
Building Official to be a nuisance or threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare.
      (2)   Maintaining clear visibility. The selective and limited removal of
trees or vegetation necessary to obtain clear visibility at driveways or
intersections, or for the purpose of performing authorized field survey work.
      (3)   Removal of trees on city land. Removal of trees on city-owned land
and public rights-of-way.
      (4)   Period of emergency. Removal of trees threatening life, property,
or other trees during or immediately after dangerous weather conditions such as
those associated with hurricanes, tornados, or floods.
      (5)   Silviculture. Any legally established silviculture use conducted in
accordance with South Carolina Forestry Commission requirements.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 29-12, passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 25-16,
passed 1-10-17; Am. Ord. 029-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 166.01-03 Retention of Trees.
   (A)   Retention of protected trees. No protected tree may be removed during
or after development, except in accordance with §
166.01-03(C), Removal of a Protected Tree. In addition, all protected trees
shall have the following protections, whether located on public or private
land:
      (1)   Cutting, removal, or harm prohibited. Protected trees shall not be
cut, removed, pushed over, killed, or otherwise harmed. No protected tree shall
be cut in such a manner as to remove limbs greater than six inches in diameter
measured at the nearest juncture.
      (2)   Public utilities and electric suppliers. Public utilities and
electric suppliers shall employ best management practices in regard to tree
trimming and removal.
         (a)   Annually, public utilities and electric suppliers shall submit
to the city their plans for tree trimming and/or tree removal. All plans must
meet ANSI A300 Standards.
         (b)   Tree trimming and removal by utilities, other than the removal
of healthy, nonthreatening trees, shall be allowed without a report during a
period of emergency, such as hurricane, tornado, ice storm, flood or any other
such act of nature.
   (B)   Retention of non-protected trees. In no case shall the total number of
trees with 12-inch DBH or greater, whether protected or non-protected, be
reduced to less than 12 trees per acre excluding palmetto trees. This
requirement may be satisfied by the retention of non-protected trees or the
planting of new shade trees as identified by the South Carolina Forestry
Commission.
   (C)   Removal of a protected tree. The Building Official shall allow removal
of protected trees under one of the following conditions:
      (1)   Removal of a severely diseased, high risk, or dying tree.  A
protected tree is certified by an ISA certified arborist or SC registered
landscape architect arborist certified in the State of South Carolina as
severely diseased, high risk, or dying. A severely diseased, high risk, or
dying protected tree shall be exempt from §
166.01-03(E), Replacement/Mitigation of Trees.
      (2)   Removal on single-family and two-family lots. A healthy protected
tree is located within the footprint of a proposed dwelling, onsite waste water
system, or the access thereto, provided the arrangement of such features is the
least impactful to protected trees, and the landowner complies with all
mitigation standards.
      (3)   Removal of hazardous trees. A protected tree is certified by an
arborist or other qualified professional as posing a threat to public safety or
to the safety of a structure. A hazardous tree shall be exempt from §
166.01-03(E), Replacement/Mitigation of Trees.
      (4)   Removal on commercial lots. A healthy protected tree is located
within the footprint of a proposed structure, or the access thereto, provided
the arrangement of such features is the least impactful to protected trees, and
the landowner complies with all mitigation standards.
   (D)   Removal of non-protected trees. Any tree that is not listed in
Table 166.02, Protected Trees, may be removed from a lot without cause. A
person removing a healthy non-protected tree with at least 12-inch DBH shall be
responsible for mitigation in accordance with §
166.01-03(E)
   (E)   Replacement/mitigation of trees. A person causing the destruction or
removal of a healthy tree shall be responsible for the following mitigation:
      (1)   Replacement trees required. Each healthy protected or non-protected
tree removed or destroyed shall be replaced with the minimum number of trees
necessary to achieve an equivalent amount of trunk diameter.
         (a)   For protected trees with DBH greater than 18 inches, the
replacement trees required shall be a minimum number of trees necessary to
achieve an equivalent amount of trunk diameter equal to 1.5 times the diameter
of those trees removed or destroyed.
         (b)   For protected trees with DBH greater than 24 inches, the
replacement trees required shall be the minimum number of trees necessary to
achieve an equivalent amount of trunk diameter equal to two times the diameter
of those trees removed or destroyed.
      (2)   Replacement of protected trees shall be of the same species as the
tree removed or an accepted shade tree species as identified by the South
Carolina Forestry Commission. Replacement of non-protected trees shall be from
trees listed in
Table 166.02.
         (a)   Location of replacement trees. Replacement trees shall be either
planted on the parcel of land from which the protected tree was removed if
sufficient space is available, placed on nearby public lands in accordance with
§
166.02-08, Alternative Landscaping Plan, or substituted with fee-in-lieu to the
city’s Tree Fund.
         (b)   Replanting period. Replacement trees shall be provided within 12
months of the removal or destruction of the protected tree(s). For those trees
removed for the purpose of new construction or substantial improvement to a
structure, replacement trees shall be provided prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   Establishment period. Replacement trees shall be maintained
through an establishment period of at least two years. The applicant shall
guarantee the survival and health of all replacement trees during the
establishment period and guarantee any associated replacement costs (See §
167.03, Performance Agreements). If the replacement trees do not survive the
establishment period, the applicant shall purchase and install new replacement
trees.
      (3)   Mitigation for the removal of protected and non-protected trees may
be satisfied by the payment of a fee in lieu of mitigation.
         (a)   The value of the fee in lieu of mitigation shall be determined
by the computing the average of two written quotes for cost of replacement
trees required in §
166.01-03(E). For non-protected trees, the fee shall be calculated on written
quotes for the species of tree being removed. The written quotes will be
provided by the applicant and sourced from a person with credentials acceptable
to the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   A fee in lieu of mitigation must be paid at the time of
application for a permit to remove a protected tree or at the time of payment
of any fine related to unlawful removal or destruction of a protected tree.
         (c)   All fees in lieu of mitigation for the removal of protected
trees shall be placed in the Folly Beach Tree Fund.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 20-10, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 29-12,
passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 19-13, passed 12-10-13; Am. Ord. 25-16, passed 1-10-
17; Am. Ord. 029-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 007-24, passed 1-14-25)
   § 166.01-04 Tree Protection During Construction.
   (A)   Protective barricades required. Protective barricades including silt
fencing shall be placed around all protected trees and grand trees located in
development areas, and designated to be saved, prior to the start of
development activities, and shall remain in place until development activities
are complete. Protective barricades must use temporary chain link fencing for
grand trees 24-inches DBH or greater. Orange construction fencing for all
others. The fencing must contain the entire tree drip line; there maybe no
trenching or grade changes within the zone.
   (B)   Paving or soil compaction prohibited. Except when authorized by an
approved alternative landscaping plan (See §
166.02-08). paving within the drip line of a protected tree shall be
prohibited. When authorized, the area within the drip line of any protected
tree shall not be subject to paving or soil compaction greater than 10% of the
total drip line square footage or within 12 feet of the tree trunk.
   (C)   Mulch required. A two inch layer of mulch shall be applied over the
area within the tree protection barricades as well as the surface of exposed
roots within the drip line during development.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 29-12, passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 25-16,
passed 1-10-17; Am. Ord. 029-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 166.01-05 Penalty.
   The penalty for removing an existing tree or a limb greater than six inches
at the nearest juncture without a permit shall be $500 and each tree removed in
violation shall count as a separate offense.
(Ord. 25-16, passed 1-10-17)
§ 166.02 LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   § 166.02-01 Purpose and Intent.
   It is the purpose of this section to promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare by providing for the planting, maintenance, and
preservation of trees, shrubs and other plants within the city. The intent of
this section is to promote this purpose by:
   (A)   Ensuring and encouraging the planting, maintenance, restoration and
survival of trees, shrubs and other plants;
   (B)   Ensuring the protection of community residents and visitors from
personal injury and property damage, and the protection of the city from
property damage, caused or threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or
removal of trees, shrubs or other plants;
   (C)   Mitigating against erosion and sedimentation;
   (D)   Reducing stormwater runoff and the costs associated therewith;
   (E)   Preserving and protecting the water table and surface waters;
   (F)   Restoring soils and land denuded as a result of construction and
grading;
   (G)   Protecting and enhancing property values and aesthetic qualities; and
   (H)   Providing visual screening, where appropriate.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-02 Applicability.
   Except for new single- and two-family dwellings established after March 23,
2010, these standards shall apply to all new development in the city. Review
for compliance with the standards of this section shall occur at the time of
site plan, §
162.03-06; planned development master plan, §
162.03-02; or subdivision preliminary plat, §
162.03-07(D), as appropriate.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-03 General Requirements For Landscaping.
   (A)   Landscape plan.  
      (1)   In order to ensure compliance with the standards of this section, a
landscape plan that demonstrates how landscaping will be planted on a
development site shall be included with or as a part of any application for a
site plan, §
162.03-06; planned development master plan, §
162.03-02; or subdivision preliminary plat, §
162.03-07(D).
      (2)   Minor revisions to approved landscape plans may be necessary due to
lack of plant availability, and may be approved by the Zoning Administrator if:
         (a)   There is no reduction in the quantity of plant material;
         (b)   There is no significant change in size or location of plant
materials; and
         (c)   The new plants are of the same general category (e.g., shade
tree, ornamental tree, evergreen, or shrub) and have the same general design
characteristics (e.g., mature height, crown spread) as the materials being
replaced.
   (B)   Existing vegetation and site features.
      (1)   Existing viable trees located within a required landscaping area
shall be preserved and credited toward standards for the type of landscaping
required, to the maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   Existing berms, walls, or fences (excluding chain link fencing)
located within a required landscaping area may be credited towards the required
landscaping provided these elements are in good repair.
      (3)   If existing vegetation and other site features do not fully meet
the standards for the type of landscaping required, then additional vegetation
or site features (including fences) shall be planted or installed within the
required landscaping area.
      (4)   Other existing site features located within a required landscaping
area which do not assist in meeting the standards of this section shall be
screened or removed.
   (C)   New planting standards. New plantings shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   Minimum size.
         (a)   Deciduous canopy or shade trees shall have a minimum height of
eight feet and be a minimum of two inches in caliper at the time of planting,
as determined in the American Standard for Nursery Stock, ANSI Z60.1-2004, as
amended.
         (b)   Understory, small maturing, or ornamental trees shall have a
minimum height of six feet and be a minimum of one-and-one-fourth inches in
caliper at time of planting, as determined in the American Stdndard for Nursery
Stock, ANSI Z60.1 -2004, as amended.
         (c)   Evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six feet and be a
minimum of two inches in caliper at the time of planting.
         (d)   Multi-stem trees, whether canopy or understory, shall have at
least three stalks and be a minimum of eight feet in height above ground level
at the time of planting.
         (e)   Large shrubs shall have a container size of at least three
gallons, and shall be at least three feet in height at the time of planting,
and shall reach the required minimum performance height within four years of
installation.
         (f)   Small shrubs shall have a container size of at least two
gallons, and shall be at least two feet in height at the time of planting, and
shall reach the required minimum performance height within five years of
installation.
         (g)   In cases where an aggregate caliper inch (ACI) requirement is
utilized to derive a required amount of vegetation, and the ACI figure includes
a fraction, an applicant may:
            1.   Utilize a tree or trees with a caliper inch measurement
exceeding the minimum size at time of planting standard of this subsection in
order to meet the required ACI; or
            2.   Round the ACI figure upwards until the figure corresponds with
a whole number of trees meeting the minimum size at time of planting standard.
            3.   When trees exceeding the minimum size at time of planting
standard are proposed, the minimum calipers of such trees shall be clearly
noted on the site plan, or subdivision preliminary plat (as appropriate).
            4.   In cases where application of the requirements in this
subsection result in a fraction in the number of shrubs to be provided, the
minimum number of shrubs to be provided shall be rounded upwards to the next
highest whole number.
      (2)   Quality.  
         (a)   All new plant material shall be of good qualify and free from
disease. All trees shall be properly guyed and staked at the time of planting,
and mulched and meet the standards set forth in the American Standard for
Nursery Stock by the American Association of Nurserymen. The selection of
plants, planting methods, minimum height, root ball and container size, number
of branches, and width, shall conform to the American Standard for Nursery
Stock published by the American Association of Nurserymen for that type of tree
or shrub at the time of installation. Plant material shall be of standard
quality or better, true to name and type of species or variety.
         (b)   The use of native, drought-tolerant vegetation is encouraged to
reduce dependency upon irrigation.
      (3)   Plant diversity. To curtail the spread of disease or insect
infestation in a plant species, new plantings shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   When fewer than 20 trees are required on a site, at least two
different genus shall be used, in roughly equal proportions.
         (b)   When more than 20 but fewer than 40 trees are required to be
planted on site, at least three different genus shall be used, in roughly equal
proportions.
         (c)   When 40 or more trees are required on a site, at least four
different genus shall be used, in roughly equal proportions.
         (d)   Required shrubs shall use the same plant diversity requirements.
         (e)   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed so as to prevent
the utilization of a larger number of different genus than specified above.
      (4)   Prohibited materials. Any tree by nature of their fruit, root
system, brittleness of wood, or susceptibility to disease shall not receive
credit towards the requirements of this section. Only those materials listed on
the city's approved plant list shall be credited towards the requirements of
this section.
      (5)   Stabilization.
         (a)   All landscape planting areas shall be stabilized and maintained
with ground covers, mulches, or other approved materials to prevent soil
erosion and allow rainwater infiltration.
         (b)   Trees shall not be planted on slopes exceeding a 4:1 horizontal-
to-vertical distance.
      (6)   Location of plant material.  
         (a)   No required landscaping shall be planted within a sight distance
triangle at an intersection, or driveway access points unless an unobstructed
view between 30 inches and 72 inches in height above grade is maintained.
         (b)   In cases where overhead utility lines exist, understory or small
maturing trees planted a maximum of 20 feet on-center may be substituted for
canopy trees.
         (c)   Landscaped areas within parking lots shall be separated from
parking spaces, driveways, and maneuvering areas by a standard curb or other
appropriate technique. This standard shall not prohibit the use of planting
areas as on-site stormwater management devices.
      (7)   Easements.
         (a)   Nothing except groundcover shall be planted or installed within
any underground or overhead utility, drainage, or gas easement without the
consent of the utility provider, easement holder, or the city.
         (b)   Landscaping shall not impede the ability of the easement holder
to conduct maintenance activities within the easement.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-04 Site Landscaping.
   (A)   Purpose. Site landscaping material is intended to replenish the tree
canopy in developed areas, soften the visual impact of building foundations,
and provide for the even dispersal of trees and shrubs across development
sites.
   (B)   General. Site landscaping, for the purpose of this section, is
landscaping that is not:
      (1)   Required vehicular use area landscaping;
      (2)   Located within a required perimeter buffer strip; or
      (3)   Required screening.
   (C)   Site landscaping standards. Except for new single- and two-family
dwellings, site landscaping shall be required for all development, and shall be
supplied in the amounts identified in
Table 166.03, Required Site Landscaping Plantings. Site landscaping shall meet
the minimum size standards for new planting specified in §
166.02-03(C)(1), Minimum Size.
 
TABLE 166.03: REQUIRED SITE LANDSCAPING PLANTINGS
                   TYPE OF LANDSCAPING MATERIAL (1)
USE TYPE           CANOPY TREES (ACI) UNDERSTORY TREES  MINIMUM NUMBER OF
                                      (ACI)             LARGE SHRUBS (#) (2)
Multi-family                                            1/every 5 feet of
residential use    18/acre            5/acre            total building
                                                        perimeter
                                                        2/every 5 feet of
Institutional use  12/acre            8.75/acre         total building
                                                        perimeter
                                                        4/every 5 feet of
Nonresidential use 10/acre            7.5/acre          total building
                                                        perimeter
NOTES:
(1)   Existing trees located outside of a tree protection zone may be
credited towards these requirements provided the vegetation is not
prohibited and meets the minimum size requirements in §
166.02-03(C)(1), Minimum Size.
(2)   Required shrubs shall be placed around building foundations visible
from public rights-of-way with adequate on-center spacing to allow proper
growth. Required shrubs not needed for foundation screening shall be
dispersed across the site.
 
   (D)   Fee-in-lieu. In cases where the configuration or topographical
constraints of an existing site make the placement of all required site
landscaping impractical, the Zoning Administrator may approve payment of a fee-
in-lieu paid into the city's designated tree fund through the submittal of an
alternative landscaping plan (See §
166.02-08).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-05 Vehicular Use Area Landscaping.
   (A)   Interior landscaping standards.
      (1)   Applicability. Except for single-and two-family residential uses,
the standards in this subsection shall apply to all surface parking lots with
five or more parking spaces.
      (2)   General interior landscaping standards. All parking lots shall
provide and maintain landscaped planting areas within the interior of the
parking lot. These standards shall not apply to parking structures or vehicle
display areas.
      (3)   Size. Each planting area shall contain minimum areas in accordance
with §
166.02-05(4), Design, and in all instances, the planting area shall be adequate
to accommodate the root growth of the plant material used. The size of the
planting area and size of plant material at maturity shall allow for a two-and-
one-half foot bumper overhang from the face of the curb.
      (4)   Design. Interior planting areas shall be designed within parking
areas as:
         (a)   Islands located at the end of parking bays, with a minimum size
of 135 square feet for single loaded parking rows, and a minimum size of 270
square feet for double loaded bays;
         (b)   Islands located mid-way in parking bays with 40 or more spaces
such that no more than 15 spaces shall be located in a continuous row without
being interrupted by a landscaped island with a minimum size of 135 square feet
for single loaded bays and 270 square feet for double loaded bays.
         (c)   Islands located at least every four parallel rows of cars;
         (d)   Islands used to visually separate parking areas and accommodate
required pedestrian pathways in surface parking lots with 500 or more parking
spaces;
         (e)   Driveway medians shall have a minimum width of four feet for
medians with shrubs, six feet for medians with shrubs and understory trees and
nine feet for medians with canopy deciduous or evergreen trees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7005.jpg]
 
      (5)    Planting rates. Each interior planting area shall contain trees
and shrubs at the following rates:
         (a)   Trees shall be required at the minimum rate of two caliper
inches of canopy tree for every 2,000 square feet, or portion thereof, of the
total vehicular use area, except for location directly under overhead
utilities, where understory trees may be substituted for canopy trees;
         (b)   Large shrubs shall be required at the minimum rate of one shrub
per every 500 square feet, or portion thereof, of the total parking lot area;
         (c)   As a general guide, one tree island should be located at
approximately 15 space intervals, in accordance with §
166.02-05(4), Design;
         (d)   No parking space shall be separated from the trunk of a shade or
canopy tree by more than 60 feet (perimeter vehicular use area landscaping or
other required landscaping may be used to meet this requirement); and
         (e)   All landscape planting areas shall be stabilized and maintained
with ground covers, mulches, or other approved materials to prevent soil
erosion and allow rainwater infiltration.
      (6)   Screened backfill. Soil utilized in parking lot islands, driveway
medians, and other areas internal to a vehicular use area shall be screened
prior to deposition in planting areas.
      (7)   Distribution. Landscaped planting areas shall be distributed
throughout the parking area for the purpose of heat abatement.
      (8)   Protection of planting areas. All planting areas shall be protected
from vehicle damage by the installation of curbing, wheel stops, or other
comparable methods.
   (B)   Perimeter landscaping standards. In addition to the interior vehicular
use area landscaping standards set forth in §
166.02-05(A), Interior Landscaping Standards, vehicular use areas shall be
screened from view of public streets and adjacent residential uses. Where a
vehicular use area abuts a street right-of-way, vacant land within a
residential district, or existing residential development, the following
standards shall apply:
      (1)   Continuous visual screen. Perimeter landscaping for vehicular use
areas shall form a continuous visual screen, excluding required sight
clearances at driveways.
      (2)   Minimum width.  
         (a)   The minimum average width for any perimeter landscaping strip
shall be ten feet measured at ten-foot intervals along the property lines, with
the minimum width for any perimeter landscaping strip being five feet.
         (b)   The perimeter landscaping strip shall be protected from
vehicular intrusion by the installation of curbing, wheel stops, extra width in
the buffer yard, or other comparable methods approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   Location. Perimeter landscape strips for screening vehicular use
areas shall be located on the lot, and shall be placed to assure visibility and
safety of pedestrians on the public street, as well as those within the
vehicular use area.
      (4)   Minimum height. Plant materials shall be maintained at a minimum
height of four feet above the surface elevation of the adjacent vehicular use
area, provided the installation meets all state and federal highway sight
distance standards.
      (5)   Required materials.  
         (a)   Evergreen shrubs shall be used to form the continuous visual
screen in the perimeter landscaping strip.
         (b)   In addition to the evergreen shrub requirements, each perimeter
landscaping strip shall include at least eight aggregate caliper inches (ACI)
of canopy or understory trees per every 100 linear feet of landscaping strip.
      (6)   Adjacent to perimeter buffers. Perimeter landscape strips may be
credited towards perimeter buffer (See §
166.02-06) standards provided that the minimum standards of this landscaping
strip width requirements subsection are maintained.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7007.jpg]
 
      (7)   Adjacent to off-street surface parking on other lots. In cases
where two or more off-street surface parking lots are located adjacent to one
another, but upon different lots, no perimeter landscaping materials shall be
required.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-06 Perimeter Buffers.
   (A)   Applicability. Unless exempted in accordance with an approved
alternative landscaping plan (See §
166.02-08), all development shall provide a perimeter buffer to separate that
use from adjacent uses in accordance with the standards in this subsection. The
buffer shall have the width, amount of vegetation, and other features to
properly mitigate the negative effects of contiguous incompatible uses.
   (B)   Types of buffers. Table 166.04, Buffer Types, describes the four
different types of buffers and their configurations. In cases where a buffer
includes a wall or fence, the wall or fence shall comply with the standards of
§
166.09, Fences and Walls.
TABLE 166.04: BUFFER TYPES
                          Min. Tree Plant Count   Maximum
Buffer   Minimum Minimum  Height at (# per 100    On-Center    Min. % Evergreen
Type (1) Width   Opacity  Maturity  linear feet)  Spacing      Species
         (feet)  (2)      (feet)    (4)           (feet) (5)
                          (3)       Trees Shrubs  Trees Shrubs Trees Shrubs
TABLE 166.04: BUFFER TYPES
                           Min. Tree Plant Count   Maximum      Min. %
Buffer   Minimum Minimum   Height at (# per 100    On-Center    Evergreen
Type (1) Width   Opacity   Maturity  linear feet)  Spacing      Species
         (feet)  (2)       (feet)    (4)           (feet) (5)
                           (3)       Trees Shrubs  Trees Shrubs Trees Shrubs
A        10      40% - 60% 10        2     10      50    10     30%   50%
B        12      60% - 80% 20        2.85  16.5    35    6      40%   60%
C        16      80% -     30        5     25      20    4      50%   75%
                 100%
D        48      100%      30        5     25      20    4      50%   75%
NOTES:
(1)   Each buffer type may be supplemented with a wall or fence provided
installation of such features shall not damage or destroy existing
vegetation located within the perimeter buffer. Use of a fence or wall
meeting the standards of §
166.09, Fences and Walls, will reduce the minimum buffer width by 50% and
the plant count by 75%.
(2)   This figure measures the amount of visual separation provided by the
buffer. A 100% opaque buffer should result in complete visual separation
from grade to a minimum height at maturity within the time frame specified
in §
166.02-03(C)(1), Minimum Size.
(3)   Shrubs shall be at least three feet tall at time of planting.
(4)   Existing viable vegetation meeting the minimum size requirements of §
166.02-03(C)(1), Minimum Size, shall be retained and credited towards the
plant count requirements.
(5)   Measured in linear feet on-center. Maximum spacing may be increased
through approval of an alternative landscaping plan (See §
166.02-08). This figure is the maximum unobstructed distance between two
shrubs at the time of planting.
 
   (C)   Buffer type application.  
Table 166.05, Buffer Application, below, specifies the type of perimeter buffer
that must be installed by a developing use based upon the adjacent base zoning
district.
TABLE 166.05: BUFFER APPLICATION
BASE ZONING DISTRICT ADJACENT BASE ZONING DISTRICT (1)
                     RSF, RTF RMF, DC IC, MC CC
TABLE 166.05: BUFFER APPLICATION
BASE ZONING DISTRICT ADJACENT BASE ZONING DISTRICT (1)
                     RSF, RTF RMF, DC IC, MC CC
RSF, RTF             N/A      B       C      D
RMF, DC              B        N/A     A      B
IC, MC               C        A       N/A    A
CC                   D        B       A      N/A
NOTES:
(1) Letters in the cells correspond to the buffer types depicted in
Table 166.04, Buffer Types.
(2) N/A = Not Applicable
 
   (D)   Responsibility for buffer installation.  
      (1)   Vacant parcels. Where a developing parcel is adjacent to a vacant
parcel, the developing parcel shall provide a minimum of one-half of the
perimeter buffer required adjacent to the vacant land.
      (2)   Existing land uses. Where a developing parcel is adjacent to an
existing use, the developing parcel shall provide the full perimeter buffer
required adjacent to the existing use in accordance with
Table 166.05, Buffer Application, unless a portion or all of a perimeter buffer
that complies with the standards of this section already exists between the
lots. Where all or part of a perimeter buffer exists, but the buffer does not
fully comply with the standards of this section, the developing parcel shall be
responsible for providing all the additional planting material necessary to
meet the standards of this section.
   (E)   Location of buffers. Perimeter buffers required by this section shall
be located along the outer perimeter of the lot or site and shall extend to the
lot boundary line or right-of-way line; however, the perimeter buffer may be
located along shared access easements between parcels in nonresidential
developments.
   (F)   Development within required buffers.
      (1)   The required buffer shall not contain any development, impervious
surfaces, or site features that do not function to meet the standards of this
section or that require removal of existing vegetation, unless otherwise
permitted in this ZDO.
      (2)   Sidewalks and trails may be placed in perimeter buffers if damage
to existing vegetation is minimized to the maximum extent practicable.
      (3)   Overhead and underground utilities, if allowed by the city, are
permitted in buffers, but shall minimize the impact to vegetation to the
maximum extent practicable. In cases where required landscaping material is
damaged or removed due to utility activity within a required buffer, the
landowner shall be responsible for replanting all damaged or removed vegetation
necessary to ensure the buffer meets the standards in the ZDO.
   (G)   Off-site easements for perimeter buffers. Permanent off-site
landscaping easements may be used to satisfy a portion of the perimeter buffer
requirements in accordance with an alternative landscaping plan, §
166.02-08, provided the size or shape of the developing lot restricts the
ability to develop the site while also meeting the requirements of this
section. Such easements shall be recorded prior to or in conjunction with
approval of a site plan, §
162.03-06, or subdivision preliminary plat, §
162.03-07(D), as appropriate.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-07 Screening.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to the site landscaping, perimeter
buffer, and vehicular use area landscaping standards in this section, screening
shall be required to conceal specific areas of high visual or auditory impact
or hazardous areas from both on-site and off-site views. Such areas shall be
screened at all times, unless otherwise specified, regardless of adjacent uses,
districts, or other proximate landscaping material.
   (B)   Items to be screened. The following areas shall be screened in
accordance with this section:
      (1)   Large waste receptacles (dumpsters) and refuse collection points
(including cardboard recycling containers);
      (2)   Loading and service areas;
      (3)   Outdoor storage areas (including storage tanks); and
      (4)   Ground level mechanical equipment and utility meters.
   (C)   Screening methods. The following items are permitted for use as
screening materials. Alternative screening materials that are not listed may be
used if it is determined they are comparable to these screening materials.
      (1)   Vegetative material. Planting materials meeting the opacity
standards for a Type C buffer (see
Table 166.04, Buffer Types) and the minimum size standards at time of planting
standards of §
166.02-03(C)(1), New Planting Standards.
      (2)   Fencing. An opaque wooden fence, plastic, or vinyl designed fence
that is configured to appear as an opaque wooden fence, measuring at least six
feet in height, but not exceeding eight feet in height, that is consistent with
the standards in §
166.09, Fences and Walls. When wood is utilized, only treated wood or rot-
resistant wood, such as cypress or redwood, shall be used. Chain link, barbed
wire, stock wire, hog wire, chicken wire, and similar type fences are not
permitted.
      (3)   Masonry walls. Masonry walls measuring at least six feet in height
but not exceeding eight feet in height. Walls shall be constructed of brick,
textured concrete masonry units, or stuccoed block.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-08 Alternative Landscaping Plan.
   An alternative landscaping plan may be used where impractical situations
would result from application of §
166.02, Landscaping Standards, or to replace a tree accidentally damaged in
accordance with §
166.01, Tree Protection. Alternative plans, materials, or methods may be
justified due to natural conditions, such as streams, waterways, topography,
and physical conditions related to the site. Also, the lot configuration and
utility easements may justify an alternative landscaping plan.
   (A)   Allowable deviations. The Zoning Administrator shall approve an
alternative landscaping plan if it meets the purpose and intent of the
landscaping standards in this section. Deviations from the standards of this
section include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Reduced planting rates due to public facilities. An adjustment to
planting locations or reduction in the type or total number of required caliper
inches when underground connections to public facilities or public utilities,
or public easements or right-of-way, are located upon or in close proximity to
the parcel.
      (2)   Reduction in standards due to nature of parcel.  A reduction in the
count, spacing, or species diversity standards is more desirable in terms of
good landscape planning practice considering the nature of the parcel and
adjacent parcels.
      (3)   Payment into designated tree fund. The Zoning Administrator may
determine if a payment-in-lieu into the city's designated tree fund is an
appropriate form of compliance with the landscaping standards in this ZDO. When
a payment-in-lieu is identified as an option, the payment amount shall be
proportional to the impact that is being mitigated.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.02-09 Other Landscape Standards.
   (A)   Installation time and permitted delays.
      (1)   Time limit. All landscaping, mulching, and seeding shall be
completed in accordance with this section prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the site.
      (2)   Requests for delay. Requests for a delay in complying with this
section due to poor weather or planting conditions shall be considered in
accordance with this section following a written request directed to the Zoning
Administrator. Such request for a delay shall note the time frame during which
the planting shall be completed.
         (a)   Extensions may be granted due to unusual environmental
conditions such as drought, over saturated soil, or inappropriate planting,
provided that the developer or the property owner provide the city with a
performance guarantee in accordance with §
167.03, Performance Agreement, ensuring the installation of the remaining
landscape materials. In such cases, the city may authorize Charleston County to
issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a period of 30 to 180 days,
relative to the next planting season.
         (b)   Exceptions may be granted by the Zoning Administrator due to
circumstances beyond the developer's or property owner's control, such as
incomplete construction or utility work to occur in a proposed landscaped area
within 30 days after expected site completion. Exceptions may be granted
provided that the developer or property owner submits a letter from the utility
company to the city stating the estimated installation date, and provides a
performance guarantee in accordance with §
167.03, Performance Agreements, to ensure installation of the required
landscaping. In such cases, the City of Folly Beach may authorize Charleston
County to issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a period not to exceed
30 days.
   (B)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Maintenance responsibility. The owner shall be responsible for the
maintenance of all landscaping areas not in the public right-of-way. Such areas
shall be maintained in accordance with the approved landscaping plan or
alternative landscaping plan and shall present a healthy and orderly appearance
free from refuse and debris. All plant life shown on an approved landscaping
plan or alternative landscaping plan shall be replaced if it dies, is seriously
damaged, or removed. All landscaping areas shall be maintained so as to prevent
debris from washing onto streets and sidewalks.
         (a)   Damage due to natural occurrence.  In the event that any
vegetation or physical element functioning to meet the standards of this
section is severely damaged due to an unusual weather occurrence or natural
catastrophe, or other natural occurrence such as damage by wild or domestic
animals, the owner or developer may be required to replant if the landscaping
standards are not being met. The owner shall have one growing season to replace
or replant. The Zoning Administrator shall consider the type and location of
the landscape buffer or required vegetation area as well as the propensity for
natural re-vegetation in making a determination on the extent of replanting
requirements.
         (b)   Protection during operations. The owner or developer shall take
actions to protect trees and landscaping from unnecessary damage during all
facility and site maintenance operations. Plants shall be maintained in a way
that does not obstruct sight distances at roadway and drive intersections,
obstruct traffic signs or devices, or interfere with the use of sidewalks or
pedestrian trails.
         (c)   Maintain shape. All required trees (whether canopy or
understory) shall be maintained in their characteristic natural shape, and
shall not be severely pruned, sheared, topped, or shaped as shrubs. Trees that
have been severely pruned, sheared, topped, or shaped as shrubs no longer serve
the intended buffering or screening function and shall be considered as damaged
vegetation in need of replacement in accordance with §
166.02-09(B)(1)(a), Damage Due to Natural Occurrence, and shall be replaced
within one growing season.
         (d)   Natural death. The natural death of existing vegetation within
any required landscaping area does not necessarily constitute a violation and
would not require re-vegetation to replace the plant material unless the
required landscaping area no longer achieves the required standards of this
section. In no instance shall this provision be construed to prevent re-
planting if, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the required
performance standard of the landscaping is not being met.
      (2)   Monitoring of compliance with landscaping standards.
         (a)   Inspections prior to certificate of occupancy.  The Zoning
Administrator shall inspect the site prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the development and such permit shall not be issued if the
landscaping required under this section is not living or healthy or is not
installed in accordance with the approved landscaping plan or alternative
landscaping plan and the standards in this section.
         (b)   Inspections after first year. The Zoning Administrator may
inspect the site each year after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy in
order to ensure compliance with the approved landscaping plan or alternative
landscaping plan and to ensure that the landscaping is properly maintained.
Failure to maintain required landscape areas (trees and shrubs) in accordance
with the standards of this section shall constitute a violation of this ZDO.
      (3)   Replacement of disturbed and damaged vegetation. The disturbance of
any landscaping area or vegetation required by this ZDO shall constitute a
violation of these provisions. All disturbed landscaping areas and vegetation
shall be replanted to meet the standards of this section.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.03 OPEN SPACE STANDARDS.
   § 166.03-01 Purpose.
   This section addresses the character and design of those portions of
development that are not occupied by platted lots or streets and that are
reserved for parks, trails, landscaping, and other open space uses.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.03-02 Applicability.
   (A)   General. Except for development exempted in accordance with §
166.03-02(C), Exemptions, these standards shall apply to all new development in
the city. Review for compliance with the standards of this section shall occur
at the time of site plan, §
162.03-06; planned development master plan, §
162.03-02; or subdivision preliminary plat, §
162.03-07(D), as appropriate.
   (B)   Conflict with other standards. In the event that open space standards
in the base or overlay zoning districts conflict with the standards in this
section, the standards in the base or overlay zoning district shall control.
   (C)   Exemptions. Land located within the DC District, and development of a
single-family or two-family home on an existing platted lot shall be exempt
from the open space set-aside standards in this section.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.03-03 General Requirements.
   (A)   Amounts of open space set-aside required.
      (1)   New residential development shall set aside at least 15% of the
total project area as open space.
      (2)   New nonresidential and mixed-use development shall set aside at
least 10% of the total project area as open space.
   (B)   Calculation of open space set-aside. For the purposes of complying
with this section:
      (1)   Unique features. Natural features (riparian areas, preserved native
upland ecosystems, etc.), natural hazard areas (critical areas, lands occupied
by dunes, etc.), water features (canals, waterways, natural ponds, etc.), and
wildlife habitat areas for threatened and endangered species shall be counted
towards the open space set-aside.
      (2)   Required landscaping and tree protection zones. Areas occupied by
required landscaping, tree protection zones, or critical root zones for
protected trees shall be counted towards the open space set-aside.
      (3)   Active recreational areas. Land occupied as common active
recreational uses such as pools, playgrounds, tennis courts, jogging trails,
and clubhouses used primarily for recreation purposes shall be counted toward
the minimum open space set-aside.
      (4)   Passive recreational areas. Passive recreation areas shall be
counted towards the open space set-aside.
      (5)   Stormwater management devices. Land area occupied by stormwater
management devices, including retention ponds, fully vegetated detention
basins, and other bio-retention devices shall be counted towards the open space
set-aside when such features are treated as a site amenity, and support passive
or active recreation uses by providing access, and pedestrian elements such as
paths, benches, and similar aspects.
      (6)   Land within lots subject to easements. Land within the boundary of
a private lot, if it is subject to a conservation easement shall be counted
towards the open space set-aside.
      (7)   Not counted as open space. The following areas shall not be counted
as open space set-aside:
         (a)   Private yards not subject to an open space easement;
         (b)   Public or private streets or right-of-way, including sidewalks;
         (c)   Open parking areas and driveways for dwellings;
         (d)   Marshland, wetlands, and floodplains;
         (e)   Land covered by structures not designated for active
recreational uses; and
         (f)   Designated outdoor storage areas.
         (g)   Parking areas.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.03-04 Design Standards For Open Space Set-Asides.
   Land set aside as open space set-asides shall meet the following design
standards:
   (A)   Location. Where relevant and appropriate, open space set-aside shall
be located so as to be readily accessible and useable by residents and uses of
the development. Where possible, a portion of the open space set-aside should
provide focal points for the development.
   (B)   Configuration. The lands shall be compact and contiguous unless the
land is used as a continuation of an existing trail, or specific natural or
topographic features require a different configuration.
   (C)   Adjacent to existing or planned open space. Where open areas, trails,
parks, or other public spaces are planned or exist adjacent to the parcel, the
open space set-aside shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be located to
adjoin, extend, and enlarge the presently existing trail, park, or other open
area land.
   (D)   Prioritization of open space set-aside. To the maximum extent
practicable, the open space set-aside should be located and organized to
include, protect, or enhance as many of the following open areas and features
as possible:
      (1)   Natural features such as critical areas, marshland, beach and dune
systems, and native upland ecosystems;
      (2)   Water features such as drainages, canals, ditches, open water
areas, natural ponds, and retention and detention ponds;
      (3)   Landscaped buffers or visual transitions between different types or
intensities of uses;
      (4)   Habitat for endangered species; and
      (5)   Areas that accommodate multiple compatible open space uses rather
than a single use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7013.jpg]
 
   (E)   Minimum percentage devoted to active recreation.
      (1)   In cases where land is proposed for development of residential
uses, a minimum of 20% of the open-space set-aside shall be reserved for active
recreation uses as described in §
166.03-05(G), Allowable Uses in Open Space Set-Asides, but in no instance shall
active recreation land exceed more than 75% of the total amount of open-space
set aside.
      (2)   In cases where the required open space set-aside percentage is met
through application of credit from a required tree protection zone (See §
166.01), or requirement for protected trees (See §
166.01-03), or located in a conservation subdivision (See §
167.02), the reservation of 20% for active recreational uses is not required.
   (F)   Provision in multi-phase developments. In cases where less than 100%
of the total amount of open space set-aside is provided within the first phase
of a multi-phase development, the balance of remaining open space set-aside
required shall be apportioned into equal amounts in each of the subsequent
phases (for example if a three-phase development is required to provide a total
of 12 acres of open space set-aside, and provides six acres in the first phase,
no less than three acres (25% of the total amount of open space set-aside)
shall be provided in phase two of the development).
   (G)   Allowable uses in open space set-asides. Open space set-aside areas
shall not be developed with any structures except for the following:
      (1)   Active recreation uses. Facilities for active recreation, including
but not limited to: benches or other seating areas; pedestrian scaled lighting;
gazebos or other decorative structures; fountains or other water features; play
structures for children; gardens or seasonal planting areas; pools; athletic
fields; courts; and clubhouses used primarily for recreational purposes
(equipment or structures for such uses shall be indicated on the site plan,
preliminary subdivision, or planned development master plan).
      (2)   Passive recreational uses. Passive recreational and educational
purposes, including but not limited to walking, jogging, biking, picnicking,
fishing, preservation of natural areas and scenic resources, parks,
environmental education, and wildlife habitat protection.
      (3)   Conversion of uses. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed
to prevent the conversion of one or more active recreational features,
provided:
         (a)   The conversion does not violate a condition of approval or
applicable planned development terms and conditions; and
         (b)   The converted amenity feature obtains any required site plan or
other approvals.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.03-05 Ownership of Open Space Set-Asides.
   (A)   Dedicated to homeowner's or property owner's association. Wherever
possible, all open space set-aside areas shall be owned jointly or in common by
the owners of the development through a recognized homeowner's or property
owner's association, which should be established in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The landowners should submit documents for the creation of the
homeowners or property owners association to the city for review , including
its bylaws, and all documents governing ownership, maintenance, and use
restrictions for the open space set-aside, including a legal description of
such areas;
      (2)   The landowner should agree that the association will be established
by the landowner or applicant and shall be operating (with financial
subsidization by the owner or applicant, if necessary) before approval of the
first final plat for subdivision of the land, or building permit, whichever
occurs first; and
      (3)    Membership in the association would be automatic (mandatory) for
all purchasers of land therein and their successors in title.
   (B)   Retained on private lots. All required open space set-aside areas
maintained on individual building lots shall be protected as open space through
the use of an easement or comparable form of set-aside assurance that insure
the open space is maintained as open space set-aside consistent with the
requirements of this section. Such open space set-aside shall be clearly marked
on the site plan and preliminary and final subdivision plats. Any required open
space areas subject to an open space easement shall be credited against any
open space set-aside required.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.03-06 Maintenance of Open Space Set-Asides.
   The owner of the land shall be responsible for maintenance of all open space
set-aside areas unless accepted by the city. Failure to maintain open space
set-aside areas or other community facilities in accordance with the approved
site plan, §
162.03-06; final subdivision plat, §
162.03-07(D); or PD Master Plan, §
163.02-02, shall be a violation of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.04 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS.
   § 166.04-01 Purpose and Intent.
   These environmental standards are intended to protect and preserve the
quality and quantity of the natural environment in the city. More specifically,
the purposes of this section are to:
   (A)   Protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city's citizens;
   (B)   Decrease the degradation and restore the health of the dunes, marshes,
beaches and other environmentally-sensitive areas by preventing encroachments
into adjacent areas;
   (C)   Prevent damage to property from flooding and improper drainage;
   (D)   Protect the quality of surrounding surface waters and resources; and
   (E)   Mitigate the erosion of beaches and dunes by developing and protecting
a continuous vertical barrier along the beachfront.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-19, passed 4-9-19)
   § 166.04-02 Time of Review.
   These standards shall apply to all development in the city. Review for
compliance with the standards of this section shall occur at the time of site
plan, §
162.03-06; zoning permit, §
162.03-13; planned development master plan, §
162.03-02; or subdivision preliminary plat, §
162.03-07(D), as appropriate.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.04-03 Marsh Buffers.
   (A)   Applicability. Unless exempted in accordance with §
166.04-03(B), Exemptions, all development in the city shall provide and
maintain marsh buffers in accordance with the standards in this section.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following forms of development shall be exempt from
these standards:
      (1)   Boardwalks, piers, docks, marinas, boat ramps, erosion control
devices which meet the requirements of §
151.23, utilities, and sidewalks, provided such features are configured to
minimize the impact on marsh areas;
      (2)   Mariculture uses in the MC district; and
      (3)   Lawfully-established primary and accessory structures or impervious
surfaces in place prior to March 1, 2019. However, any subsequent redevelopment
after substantial damage, or substantial improvement, or land disturbing
activities other than those identified in §
166.04-03(B) shall maintain a minimum marsh buffer of at least ten linear feet
landward from the critical area demarcation as identified or certified by the
SCDES. In redevelopment after substantial damage, the marsh buffer area is to
remain undisturbed other than the planting of native plant material as approved
by the Building Official.
   (C)   Marsh buffer standards. Except for development identified in §
166.04-03(B), Exemptions, all new construction, substantial improvements,
impervious surface or land disturbing activities shall maintain a minimum marsh
buffer of 15 linear feet landward from the critical area demarcation as
identified or certified by the SCDES.
      (1)   The marsh buffer area is to remain undisturbed other than the
planting of native plant material as approved by the Building Official. In the
Marsh Island Residential District the setback shall be 35 feet from the SCDES
critical line.
      (2)   Mitigation shall be required in the event of any unauthorized
disturbance of the marsh buffer. Mitigation shall consist of one planting for
every 25 square feet of disturbed area with appropriate compatible native
vegetation as approved by the Building Official or Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 02-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 05-19,
passed 4-9-19; Am. 023-24, passed 1-14-25; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
   § 166.04-04 Dune Management Area.
   (A)   Applicability. Development on oceanfront lots in the city shall
provide and maintain an undisturbed Dune Management Area in accordance with the
standards in this section, unless exempted in accordance with §
166.04-04(B), Dune Management Area Exemptions.
   (B)   Dune Management Area exemptions. The following development shall be
exempt from these standards:
      (1)   Beach walkovers, sand fencing, public piers, and erosion control
devices, provided such features are configured to minimize the impact on beach
and dune areas;
      (2)   Plantings of bitter panic grass, sea oats, or other beach
compatible vegetation approved by the Building Official;
      (3)   Beach compatible sand;
      (4)   Temporary construction activities authorized by a building permit
(See §
162.03-08); and
      (5)   Lawfully-established development, landscaping, or impervious
surfaces in place prior to March 1, 2019. (However, any subsequent development,
redevelopment, or land disturbing activities shall comply with the standards in
this subsection).
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   All development shall maintain a minimum setback of 40 feet from
the perpetual easement line or, where no perpetual easement line exists, the
SCDES baseline. For the purposes of this subsection, PERPETUAL EASEMENT LINE
shall mean the landward edge of the federal beach renourishment project as
defined by the Army Corps of Engineers.
      (2)   Mitigation of the Dune Management Area shall be required in the
event of unauthorized disturbance of the Dune Management Area or prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for new construction or substantial
improvement of a structure located on a lot that is bounded by the PEL or the
SCDES baseline where no PEL exists. Mitigation shall consist of:
         (a)   Raising any area within the first ten linear feet landward of
the PEL or Baseline that is below an eight-foot NAVD88 elevation to an
elevation of ten feet NAVD88; and
         (b)   Planting any non-vegetated area with appropriate beach
compatible vegetation as approved by the Building Official.
         (c)   In previously-eroded areas, the Building Official is authorized
to designate a more landward area of mitigation.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued for any new structure which proposes the
use of a septic system which is located wholly or in part within Dune
Management Area.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 16-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 001-25,
passed 2-11-25)
   § 166.04-05 Stormwater Management.
   All development shall comply with the standards in
Chapter 53 of the city Code of Ordinances related to stormwater management.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.04-06 Environmental Impact Analysis.
   (Reserved).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.04-07 Standards for Waterways.
   (Reserved).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.05 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   § 166.05-01 Purpose and Intent.
   These design standards are intended to protect and preserve the quality and
character of the built environment in the city. More specifically, the purposes
of this section are to:
   (A)   Encourage high quality development as a strategy for investing in the
city's future;
   (B)   Emphasize the city's unique community character;
   (C)   Maintain and enhance the quality of life for the city's citizens;
   (D)   Shape the city's appearance, aesthetic qualify, and spatial form;
   (E)   Reinforce the civic pride of citizens through appropriate development;
   (F)   Increase awareness of aesthetic, social, environmental, and economic
values;
   (G)   Protect and enhance property values;
   (H)   Minimize negative impacts of development on the natural environment;
   (I)   Provide property owners, developers, builders, business owners, and
others with a clear and equitable set of parameters for developing land;
   (J)   Encourage a pedestrian- and bicyclist-friendly environment;
   (K)   Enhance the city's sense of place and contribute to the sustainability
and lasting value of the city;
   (L)   Shape development in a manner that is most beneficial to the citizens
of the city; and
   (M)   Ensure greater public safety, convenience, and accessibility through
the physical design and location of land-use activities.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.05-02 Application to Existing Structures.
   These design standards apply to all development in the city, subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 168: Nonconformities.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 034-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 166.05-03 Single- and Two-Family Design Standards.
   (A)   Applicability. The single- and two-family residential standards shall
apply to all single-family and two-family dwellings, subject to the provision
of
Chapter 168: Nonconformities.
   (B)   Time of review.
      (1)   Review of proposed development to ensure compliance with the
standards of this section shall take place at the time of site plan, §
162.03-06; subdivision, §
162.03-07; planned development master plan, §
162.03-02; or zoning permit, §
162.03-13, review, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Single- and two-family uses may be subject to city-imposed
conditions relating to the location, configuration, and operational aspects of
the use to ensure its compatibility with surrounding uses, their architectural
consistency with the surrounding uses, and their compliance with the city's
building codes and all relevant state laws and regulations.
   (C)   Design standards.
      (1)   Maximum square footage. The maximum square footage for a single- or
two-family dwelling shall be determined in accordance with the following
formula:
         Max. Square Footage = (Buildable lot area - 10,500) x 10%) + 3,600.
      See
Figure 166.05, Maximum Square Footage Calculation Examples, for example
calculations.
 
FIGURE 166.05: MAXIMUM SQUARE FOOTAGE CALCULATION EXAMPLES
Example One         Example Two         Example Three       Example Four
For a lot with a    For a lot with a    For a lot with a    For a lot with a
buildable lot area  buildable lot area  buildable lot area  buildable lot area
of 7,500 square     of 10,500 square    of 12,500 square    of 19,500 square
feet, the maximum   feet, the maximum   feet, the maximum   feet, the maximum
square footage for  square footage for  square footage for  square footage for
a dwelling is 3,300 a dwelling is 3,600 a dwelling is 3,800 a dwelling is 4,500
square feet:        square feet:        square feet:        square feet:
((7,500 - 10,500 )  ((10,500 - 10,500)  ((12,500 - 10,500)  ((19,500 - 10,500)
x 0.1) + 3,600 =    x 0.1) + 3,600 =    x 0.1) + 3,600 =    x 0.1) + 3,600 =
3,300               3,600               3,800               4,500
 
      (2)   Maximum dwelling size.
         (a)   The total heated floor area for a single-family dwelling shall
not exceed 4,500 square feet regardless of lot size.
         (b)   The total heated floor area for a two-family dwelling (or two
detached dwellings on a single lot) shall not exceed 4,500 square feet
regardless of lot size.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a single- or two-family
dwelling shall be in accordance with
Table 165.01, Dimensional Standards.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. Impervious surfaces on lots containing
single- or two-family dwellings shall be limited to a maximum of 35% of the
lots high ground. For the purposes of this section, decks, porches, patios,
pools, and paved areas shall be considered as impervious. Up to two gravel
driveways (as allowed under § 166.06-11(B)) with no compactible subbase up to
15 feet wide each providing ingress and egress from a public road to a dwelling
may be exempted from this calculation.
      (5)   Roof penetrations. All roof vents, pipes, antennas, satellite
dishes, and other roof penetrations and equipment (except chimneys), shall be
located on the rear elevations or otherwise configured to the degree
practicable to have a minimal visual impact as seen from the street.
      (6)   Shipping containers and the like. Any shipping container, or other
similar modular component, used in the construction of a residential structure
shall be finished in a manner typical of residential structures including, at a
minimum, painting and the removal of any and all logos, brands, lettering, and
advertisements from the exterior surface.
      (7)   Kitchens. Only one complete interior kitchen shall be allowed per
dwelling unit.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 022-21, passed 9-14-21; Am. Ord. 034-21,
passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 039-21, passed 5-10-22; Am. Ord. 029-24, passed 3-11-
25)
   § 166.05-04 Multi-Family Design Standards.
   (A)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to all
structures containing multi-family and townhouse units, but shall not apply to
individual residential units located over a nonresidential use, subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 168: Nonconformities.
   (B)   Time of review.  
      (1)   Review of proposed development to ensure compliance with the
standards of this section shall take place at the time of site plan, §
162.03-06; subdivision, §
162.03-07; or planned development master plan, §
162.03-02, review, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Multi-family uses may be subject to city-imposed conditions
relating to the location, configuration, and operational aspects of the use to
ensure its compatibility with surrounding uses, its architectural consistency
with the surrounding uses, and its compliance with the city's building codes
and all relevant state laws and regulations.
   (C)   Building orientation. All multi-family structures and townhouse
dwellings shall be oriented so that the primary entrance(s) faces the street.
In the case of corner lots, the primary entrance(s) shall face the street from
which the building derives its street address.
   (D)   Building size.
      (1)   Individual building footprints shall not exceed a maximum of 15,000
square feet.
      (2)   The maximum length of any multi-family or townhouse structure shall
be 200 linear feet, regardless of the number of units.
      (3)   No more than six side-by-side townhouse dwelling units shall be
attached in any single structure.
   (E)   Height. Multi-family building heights shall not exceed two stories or
24 feet above the top of the first living floor surface.
   (F)   Building design.
      (1)   Building details, including roof forms, siding materials, windows,
doors, and trim shall reflect a consistent architectural style.
      (2)   All sides of a multi-family or townhouse structure visible from
lands occupied by or designated for single-family dwellings, an existing public
street, or other public lands shall display a similar level of quality and
architectural detailing.
   (G)   Building facades.
      (1)   Front facades shall incorporate wall offsets in the form of
projections or recesses in the facade plane a minimum of every 30 feet of
facade frontage.
      (2)   Wall offsets shall have a minimum depth of two feet.
   (H)   Shipping containers and the like. Any shipping container, or other
similar modular component, used in the construction of a residential structure
shall be finished in a manner typical of residential structures including, at a
minimum, painting and the removal of any and all logos, brands, lettering, and
advertisements from the exterior surface.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 11-21, passed 5-11-21; Am. Ord. 022-21,
passed 9-14-21; Am. Ord. 034-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 166.05-05 Commercial Design Standards.
   (A)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to all new
structures built for or occupied by a use listed in the Commercial Use
classification portion of Table 164.01, Table of Allowed Uses, subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 168: Nonconformities.
   (B)   Exemptions. Lawfully-established commercial uses (including vacation
rentals) taking place within a structure constructed as a single-family or two-
family dwelling shall be exempted from these standards, but shall comply with
the standards in §
166.05-03, Single- and Two-Family Design Standards.
   (C)   Design standards.
      (1)   Off-street parking location.
         (a)   For lots within the DC District, no off-street surface parking
shall be located between a building wall containing the primary entrance and
the primary street the building fronts; however, parking may be permitted
between a street and a secondary entrance.
         (b)   Off-street surface parking lots as a principal or accessory use
shall not occupy visually prominent locations on lots that terminate public
vistas.
      (2)   Internal pedestrian walkways. 
          (a)   At least one internal pedestrian walkway with a minimum width
of five feet shall be provided from the on-site pedestrian network to the
public sidewalk system. In the case of corner lots, a connection shall be made
to the sidewalk of both streets.
         (b)   All internal pedestrian walkways shall be distinguished from
driving surfaces through the use of durable, low-maintenance surface materials
such as pavers, bricks, or scored/stamped concrete or asphalt to enhance
pedestrian safety and comfort, as well as the attractiveness of the walkways.
      (3)   Shipping containers and the like. Any shipping container, or other
similar modular component, used in the construction of a residential structure
shall be, at a minimum, painted with no visible logos, brands, lettering, and
advertisements on the exterior surface.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 022-21, passed 9-14-21; Am. Ord. 034-21,
passed 12-14-21)
   § 166.05-06 Transitional Design Standards.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Transitional design standards are architectural
elements or site aspects used to provide a transition between certain land uses
in an effort to mitigate conflicts between uses. It is the intent of these
standards to:
      (1)   Provide effective transitions between incompatible uses;
      (2)   Limit the excessive consumption of available land though the
utilization of large vegetated buffers;
      (3)   Limit interruptions in vehicular and pedestrian connections created
by efforts to segregate uses; and
      (4)   Establish or maintain vibrant pedestrian-oriented areas where
differing uses can operate in close proximity to one another.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall be applied by the
DRB to applications for new development or redevelopment in the following
instances:
      (1)   When lots within the DC, RC, or CC Districts abut the RSF or RTF
District;
      (2)   When a transition between uses or different use types is needed to
address a situation of incompatible land uses.
   (C)   Standards. One or more of the following approaches shall be used to
establish a transition between uses:
      (1)   Use of front, side, and rear setbacks that are within 25% of the
average setbacks for existing uses on the same block face, provided no new use
is closer to the right-of-way than any existing use;
      (2)   Limiting the facade width and height so that a new structure's
facade area does not exceed the average facade area of structures on the
opposing block face by more than 125%;
      (3)   Graduating building height and mass in the form of building step-
backs or other techniques so that structures with a higher intensity have a
comparable scale with adjacent structures housing lower intensity uses;
      (4)   Using similarly sized and patterned architectural features such as
windows, doors, awnings, arcades, pilasters, cornices, wall offsets, building
materials, and other building articulations included on the lower intensity
use;
      (5)   Locating off-street parking, loading, service, and utility areas
away from sensitive uses or adjacent to similar site features on surrounding
sites;
      (6)   Limiting incompatible exterior lighting or sources of audible noise
or disturbance from building facades facing lower intensity uses;
      (7)   Preventing abrupt changes in roof form by allowing adjacent
incompatible uses to use similar roof types, slopes, or arrangements;
      (8)   Orienting porches, balconies, outdoor space, and other site
attributes such as vending machines associated with multi-family residential
development away from adjacent single-or-two family residential uses;
      (9)   Orienting primary building facades directly across from opposing
primary facades regardless of use type (as seen in Figure 166.06, Opposing
Facade Sizes); and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7017.jpg]
 
      (10)   When dealing with multi-building developments on one or more lots,
establishing a continuum of use intensity where uses of moderate intensity are
sited between high-intensity uses and low-intensity uses (e.g., office uses
between retail and multi-family residential development).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7019.jpg]
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.06 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   § 166.06-01 Purpose and Intent.
   In order to relieve traffic congestion in the streets, to minimize any
detrimental effects of off-street parking areas on adjacent lands, to ensure
the proper and uniform development of parking areas throughout the city, and to
encourage appropriate infill and reinvestment within established areas, off-
street parking and loading spaces for each use shall be provided in accordance
with the standards established in this section.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-02 Applicability.
   (A)   General. The off-street parking and loading standards of this section
shall apply to all development in the city, except that in the downtown
commercial zoning district parking shall not be required for Type I Retail and
Office proposed to be located in structures constructed prior to December 4,
2018 and for which there is no increase in the square footage of the structure.
   (B)   Expansions and alterations.  The off-street parking and loading
standards of this section shall apply when an existing structure or use is
expanded, enlarged, or otherwise increased in capacity, or where there is a
change in use and such expansion or change in use will result in increased
vehicle trips to the existing structure or use.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 07-16, passed 5-10-16; Am. Ord. 27-17,
passed 11-14-17; Am. Ord. 12-18, passed 12-4-18)
   § 166.06-03 General Standards For Off-street Parking and Loading Areas.
   (A)   Use of parking area or loading space. All vehicular parking areas and
loading spaces required by this section shall be used only for those purposes.
Any other use, including but not limited to vehicular storage, vehicle sales,
vehicular repair work, vehicle service, or display of any kind, shall
constitute a separate business use of the space.
   (B)   Identified as to purpose and location. Except for residential uses in
the RSF and RTF districts, off-street parking areas of three or more spaces and
off-street loading areas methods of identifying individual parking spaces and
loading areas and distinguishing such spaces from aisles.
   (C)   Surfacing.  Except for residential uses in the RSF and RTF districts,
all required off-street parking, staking spaces, and loading areas shall be
surfaced shall be maintained in a smooth, well-graded condition. In no case
shall spaces provided in addition to the minimum number of spaces be surfaced
with impervious materials.
   (D)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Off-street parking areas with three or more spaces shall be
arranged so that no parking or maneuvering incidental to parking shall be on a
public street or sidewalk, and so that an automobile may be parked and unparked
without moving another automobile.
      (2)   Lot entrance and exit curb cuts shall not be more than 30 feet in
total width. Curb cuts shall be greater than 25 feet apart, provided that this
distance shall be increased should the lot frontage on a street permit the
increase. Entrance and exit drives shall be located at least 15 feet from a
street intersection.
   (E)   Drainage. All off-street parking spaces and loading areas shall be
properly drained so as not to cause any nuisance on adjacent land.
   (F)   Landscaping. All off-street parking spaces and loading areas shall be
landscaped to soften their visual impact on adjacent areas, and unless
exempted, shall comply with the standards of §
166.02-05, Vehicular Use Area Landscaping.
   (G)   Responsibility for provision. The responsibility for providing the
off-street parking spaces and loading areas required by this section shall be
that of whoever develops the land that requires parking and loading facilities.
Review for compliance with the standards of this section shall occur at the
time of site plan, §
162.03-06; preliminary subdivision plat, §
162.03-07(D); planned development, §
162.03-02; or zoning permit, §
162.03-13, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-04 Off-street Parking Standards.
   (A)   Parking plan required. A parking plan shall be submitted with every
application for a site plan, §
162.03-06; preliminary subdivision plat, §
162.03-07(D); planned development, §
162.03-02; or zoning permit, §
162.03-13, whichever is appropriate, for any development that is required to
provide more than three off-street parking spaces. The plan shall accurately
designate the required parking spaces, access aisles, and driveways, and the
relation of the off-street parking facilities to the uses or structures such
facilities are designed to serve.
   (B)   Minimum number of spaces required. Unless otherwise expressly stated
in this section, off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with
Table 166.07, Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards, below.
TABLE 166.07: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
DU = Dwelling Unit      SF = Square Footage (1)
USE CATEGORY USE TYPE PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS
TABLE 166.07: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
DU = Dwelling Unit      SF = Square Footage (1)
USE CATEGORY     USE TYPE                      PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS
RESIDENTIAL USES
                 Multi-family dwelling
                 Single-family dwelling
Household Living Two-family dwelling           1 per bedroom
                 Townhouse
                 Residential unit over
                 nonresidential use
                 Family day care home          1 per employee + 1 per every 5
                                               children or 1 per every 3
Group Living     Group day care home           adults

                 Rooming house                 1 + 1 per bedroom
INSTITUTIONAL USES
                 School (elementary or junior  1 per every 2 classrooms + 1
Schools          high)                         per employee
                 School (high school)          1 per classroom + 1 per every 5
                                               students
                 Community or neighborhood     Greater of: 1 per 300 sf or 1
                 center                        per every 4 persons of maximum
                                               fire-rated capacity
                                               Greater of: 1 per every 300 sf
                 Fraternal organization        or 1 per every 3 persons of
                                               maximum fire-rated capacity
                                               1 per every 300 sf of floor
                 Government facility           area used by the public + 1 per
                                               every 600 sf of floor area not
Institutions                                   used by the public
                 Medical treatment facility    2 per patient bed + 1 per every
                                               300 sf of administrative area
                 Religious or civic            1 per every 4 persons of
                 institution, 5,000 sf or more maximum fire-rated capacity in
                                               the assembly or sanctuary area
                                               1 per every 4 persons of
                 Religious or civic            maximum fire-rated capacity in
                 institution, less than 5,000  the assembly or sanctuary area
                 sf                            + the minimum number of spaces
                                               required for any accessory use
NOTES:
(1) DU = dwelling unit; SF & sf = square feet; GFA = gross floor area.
 
TABLE 166.07: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
DU = Dwelling Unit      SF = Square Footage (1)
USE CATEGORY USE TYPE PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS
TABLE 166.07: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
DU = Dwelling Unit      SF = Square Footage (1)
USE CATEGORY              USE TYPE               PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS
INSTITUTIONAL USES (Cont'd)
                          Public park/recreation See §
Public Park or Open Space facility               166.06-04(C), Uses with
                                                 Variable Parking Demand
                                                 1 per berth, slip or mooring
                          Docks                  station + 4 double spaces
                                                 for trailers
                                                 1 per berth, slip, or
                          Marinas                mooring station + 1 per
                                                 employee + 8 double spaces
Marine-Related                                   for trailers
                                                 1 per employee on largest
                                                 shift + 1 per every 25
                          Piers                  linear feet of pier + the
                                                 minimum number of spaces
                                                 required for any accessory
                                                 use
                          Telecommunications
                          facility, collocation  1 per service provider with
                          Telecommunications     equipment on-site
                          facility, freestanding
Utilities                 Utility, major         1 per employee on largest
                                                 shift
                                                 See §
                          Utility, minor         166.06-04(C), Uses with
                                                 Variable Parking Demand
COMMERCIAL USES
Animal Care               All                    1 per every 300 sf
                                                 1 per every 5 children up to
Day care                  All                    50, then 1 per every 10
                                                 children
                                                 Greater of: 1 per every 200
Commercial Indoor         All                    sf or 1 per every 4 persons
Recreation                                       of maximum fire-rated
                                                 capacity
                                                 1 per employee +
                                                 -Athletic field: 1 per every
                                                 5,000 sf of land area
                                                 -Courts (basketball,
                                                 racquetball, tennis,
Commercial Outdoor        All                    volleyball, etc.): 3 per
Recreation                                       court
                                                 -Swimming pool: 1 per every
                                                 75 sf of water area
                                                 -Associated structures: 1
                                                 per every 3 persons of
                                                 maximum fire-rated capacity
Offices                   All                    1 per every 300 SF
Parking                   Municipal parking lot  None
                          Private parking lot
                                                 Greater of: 1 per every 200
                                                 sf (including outdoor
                                                 waiting/seating/dining
Restaurants               All                    areas) or 1 per every 3
                                                 persons of maximum fire-
                                                 rated capacity for both
                                                 indoor and outdoor areas + 1
                                                 per every 2 employees
NOTES:
(1) DU = dwelling unit; SF & sf = square feet; GFA = gross floor area.
 
TABLE 166.07: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
DU = Dwelling Unit      SF = Square Footage (1)
USE CATEGORY USE TYPE PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS
TABLE 166.07: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
DU = Dwelling Unit      SF = Square Footage (1)
USE CATEGORY              USE TYPE                   PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS
COMMERCIAL USES (Cont'd)
                          Bar, nightclub, or similar 1 per every 100 SF
                          establishment
                                                     Greater of: 1 per every 3
                          Adult entertainment        persons of maximum fire-
                          establishment              rated capacity or 1 per
                                                     every 200 SF
                          Pool hall                  1 per every 100 SF
                          Private club (seating      Greater of: 1 per every
                          capacity less than 300 in  300 sf or 1 per every 3
                          main activity area)        persons of maximum fire-
                                                     rated capacity
                          Private club (seating      Greater of: 1 per every
Retail Sales and Services capacity 300 or greater in 300 sf or 1 per every 3.5
                          main activity area)        persons of maximum fire-
                                                     rated capacity
                          Retail use with gasoline   1 per every 150 SF
                          sales
                          Type I retail              1 per every 250 SF
                          Type II retail (15,000 -   1 per every 300 SF
                          60,000 sf GFA)
                          Type II retail (60,000 -
                          100,000 sf GFA)            1 per every 400 SF
                          Type II retail (greater
                          than 100,000 sf GFA)
                          Type III retail            1 per every 450 SF
                          Outdoor storage (no        1 per every 750 SF
                          greater than 3,000 sf)
                          Outdoor storage (greater   1 per every 1,000 SF
Storage                   than 3,000 sf)
                                                     1 per every 50 units +
                          Self-storage               minimum amount required
                                                     for all accessory uses
                          Bed and breakfast inn      2 + 1 per sleeping room
                                                     1 per every 3 persons of
                          Convention facilities      maximum fire-rated
                                                     capacity
Tourist Accommodations                               1 per every guest room + 1
                                                     per employee on largest
                          Hotel or motel             shift + 75% of the spaces
                                                     required for all accessory
                                                     uses
NOTES:
(1) DU = dwelling unit; SF & sf = square feet; GFA = gross floor area.
 
   (C)   Uses with variable parking demand characteristics. Uses that reference
this subsection in
Table 166.07, Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards, have widely varying parking
demand characteristics, making it difficult to establish a single off-street
parking standard. Upon receiving a development application for a use subject to
this subsection, the Zoning Administrator shall apply the off-street parking
standard specified for the listed use that is deemed most similar to the
proposed use or establish minimum off-street parking standards on the basis of
a parking study prepared by the applicant. Such a study shall include estimates
of parking demand based on recommendations of the Institute of Traffic
Engineers (ITE), or other acceptable estimates as approved by the Zoning
Administrator, and should include other reliable data collected from uses or
combinations of uses that are the same as or comparable with the proposed use.
Comparability will be determined by density, scale, bulk, area, type of
activity, and location. The study shall document the source of data used to
develop the recommendations.
   (D)   Mixed uses. Unless otherwise approved, lots containing more than one
use shall provide parking spaces in an amount equal to the total of the
standards for all individual uses. This provision shall not limit the ability
to submit an alternative parking plan (See §
166.06-09) to reduce the minimum number of required off-street parking spaces
in recognition of different operating hours or peak business periods.
   (E)   Maximum number of spaces permitted. For any use categorized as a
Commercial Use in
Table 166.07, Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards, off-street vehicle parking
spaces shall not be provided in an amount that is more than 125% of the minimum
standards established in
Table 166.07, Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards, except in the Downtown
Commercial (DC) District, where the number of off-street parking spaces may
exceed 125% of the minimum standards.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-05 Computation of Required Off-street Parking Spaces.
   (A)   Fractions. When measurements of the number of required parking spaces
result in fractions, the space standard shall be rounded upward to the next
highest whole number.
   (B)   Different use areas. Except as provided for in this section, parking
shall be calculated separately for each different use area in a building or on
a site, including all accessory uses.
   (C)   Combinations of uses. If the Zoning Administrator determines that a
proposed use represents a combination of uses listed in
Table 166.07, Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards, the minimum and maximum
parking space standards shall be those that would apply if the two (or more)
uses were developed separately.
   (D)   On-street parking. Except as expressly provided for in this section,
on-street parking on public or private streets, driveways, or drives, shall not
be used to satisfy the off-street parking standards of this section.
   (E)   Parking based on seating. When the standards use seating as a unit of
measurement, all calculations shall be based on the design capacity of the
areas used for seating.
   (F)   Parking based on floor area. Except as provided for in this section,
when the standards use amount of square footage in buildings as a unit of
measurement, all calculations shall be based on gross floor area.
   (G)   Parking based on students, staff, and occupants.  Except as provided
for in this section, when the standards use number of students, staff, or
occupants as a unit of measurement, all calculations shall be based on the
maximum enrollment (for students), the largest number of persons working on any
single shift (staff), or the maximum fire-rated capacity (occupants), whichever
is applicable and results in the greater number of required spaces.
   (H)   Driveways used to satisfy requirements. For single-family dwellings,
two-family dwellings, and townhouse dwellings, driveways may be used to satisfy
minimum off-street parking standards, provided that sufficient space is
available to satisfy the standards.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-06 Accessible Parking Spaces For Disabled Persons.
   A portion of the total number of off-street parking spaces in each off-
street parking area shall be specifically designated, located, and reserved for
use by persons with physical disabilities.
   (A)   Residential uses. For residential uses, the number of accessible
parking spaces for the physically disabled shall be provided at the rate of one
space for each dwelling unit that is designated for occupancy by the physically
disabled, unless otherwise required by the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (B)   Nonresidential uses.  For nonresidential uses, the number of
accessible parking spaces for the physically disabled shall be provided in
accordance with
Table 166.08, Accessible Parking Spaces for the Disabled, unless otherwise
required by the Americans with Disabilities Act.
TABLE 166.08: ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES FOR THE DISABLED
TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES NUMBER OF REQUIRED HANDICAPPED SPACES
TABLE 166.08: ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES FOR THE DISABLED
TOTAL NUMBER OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES NUMBER OF REQUIRED HANDICAPPED SPACES
1 - 25                                  1
26 - 50                                 2
51 - 75                                 3
76 - 100                                4
101 or more                             4% of total spaces
Each parking space for the disabled shall be 12 feet wide and shall have the
same depth as the adjacent parking spaces.
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-07 Dimensional Standards For Parking Spaces and Aisles.
   (A)   General. The minimum dimensions for standard car parking spaces and
parking lot aisles shall comply with Table 166.09, Dimensional Standards for
Parking Spaces and Aisles, below:
 
TABLE 166.09: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR PARKING SPACES AND AISLES
PARKING ANGLE STALL WIDTH (FT) STALL DEPTH (FT) AISLE WIDTH FOR TWO-WAY TRAFFIC
                                                (FT) (1)
Parallel      9                22               22
45 degrees    9                18               22
90 degrees    9                19               22
(1)   Aisle widths are provided for two-way traffic. In cases where traffic is
proposed for one-way travel, then the width of the aisle may be reduced by one-
half.
 
   (B)   Dimensional adjustments. Parking structures may be subject to
dimensional adjustments based on utilization, but in no case shall the standard
space width be less than eight feet. Reduction in design standards shall be
subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-08 Bicycle Facilities.
   All development with surface parking exceeding 20 spaces shall provide
bicycle parking facilities, which shall be:
   (A)   Located within 50 feet of entrance. Bicycle parking spaces shall be
conveniently located, but in no case shall such facilities be located farther
than 100 linear feet from the primary building entrance;
   (B)   Rate of provision. One bicycle parking space per every 20 off-street
parking space; and
   (C)   Securing device. Include a rack or other device to enable bicycles to
be secured.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-09 Alternative Parking Plan.
   The Planning Commission shall be authorized to approve an alternative
parking plan, which proposes alternatives to providing the number of required
off-street parking spaces required by
Table 166.07, Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards, in accordance with the
standards listed below. Nothing in this section shall limit the utilization of
one or more of the following off-street parking alternatives by a single use.
   (A)   Provision over the maximum allowed. Requests to provide more than the
maximum number of off-street parking spaces required by §
166.06-04(E), Maximum Number of Spaces Permitted, shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   Parking demand study. Requests for exceeding the maximum number of
required off-street parking spaces shall be accompanied by a parking demand
study demonstrating how the maximum number of parking spaces specified by §
166.06-04(E), Maximum Number of Spaces Permitted, is insufficient for the
proposed development.
      (2)   Minimum amount required. Requests to exceed the maximum number of
off-street spaces allowed are limited to the minimum number of additional
spaces required as recommended in the required parking demand study.
   (B)   Shared parking. The Zoning Administrator may approve shared parking
facilities for developments with different operating hours or different peak
business periods if the shared parking complies with all of the following
standards:
      (1)   Located within 500 feet. Shared parking spaces shall be located
within 500 feet of the primary entrance of all uses served, unless remote
parking shuttle bus service is provided. Shared parking spaces shall not be
separated from the use they serve by an arterial or collector road. In
addition, adequate and safe pedestrian access must be provided from and to the
shared parking areas.
      (2)   Same or more intensive use. A shared parking area shall be located
on a site with the same or more intensive zone district classification than
required for the primary uses served.
         (a)   Those wishing to use shared parking as a means of satisfying the
off-street parking standards must submit a shared parking request to the Zoning
Administrator that justifies the feasibility of shared parking. Justification
shall include information on the size and type of the proposed development, the
composition of tenants, the anticipated rate of parking turnover, and the
anticipated peak parking and traffic loads for all uses that will be sharing
off-street parking spaces.
            1.   The maximum reduction in the number of parking spaces required
for all uses sharing the parking area shall be 50%.
            2.   Directional signage which complies with the standards of this
ZDO shall be added to direct the public to the shared parking spaces. It is
preferable for the employees of an establishment to utilize these spaces.
         (b)   A shared parking plan shall be enforced through written
agreement among all owners of record. An attested copy of the agreement between
the owners of record must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for
recordation. Recordation of the agreement shall take place prior to issuance of
a zoning permit (See §
162.03-13) for any use to be served by the shared parking area. A shared
parking agreement may be revoked only if all required off-street parking spaces
will be provided in accordance with the requirements of
Table 166.07, Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards.
      (3)   Less intensive use. A shared parking area may be located on a site
with a less intensive zone district classification than required for the
primary uses served, provided that:
         (a)   The proposal receives a special exception permit in accordance
with §
162.03-03, Special Exception Permit;
         (b)   Vehicular access to the shared parking area is limited to the
use(s) it serves; and
         (c)   Portions of the shared parking area not directly adjacent to the
use it serves are surrounded by a solid six-foot fence meeting the standards of
§
166.09, Fences and Walls.
   (C)   Off-site parking for nonresidential uses. All off-street parking areas
for any nonresidential use shall be provided on the same parcel of land as the
use it serves; provided, however, that where there are practical difficulties
in the location of the parking area or if the public safety or public
convenience, or both, is better served by its location on another parcel of
land. Off-site parking for nonresidential uses shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   Same ownership. The parking area is located on land under the same
ownership or the use it serves.
      (2)   Pedestrian way required. A pedestrian way, not more than 600 feet
in length, is established from the parking area to the use to be served.
      (3)   No undue hazard. The parking area is convenient to the use without
causing unreasonable:
         (a)   Hazard to pedestrians;
         (b)   Hazard to vehicular traffic;
         (c)   Traffic congestion;
         (d)   Interference with commercial activity or convenient access to
other parking areas in the vicinity;
         (e)   Detriment to the appropriate use of business lands in the
vicinity; or
         (f)   Detriment to any residential neighborhood.
   (D)   Parking structures. The off-street parking required by this section
may be located in a parking structure, whether on the same or on a different
lot than the uses which it serves. Ground floor parking provided in a parking
structure shall be screened, insofar as practicable, from surrounding uses and
from public view as required by §
166.02-05, Vehicular Use Area Landscaping. In addition, for uses located on the
same lot as the structure, the conditions required for shared parking shall
apply. For uses located on a different lot as the structure, the conditions
required for off-site parking shall apply.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-10 Loading Space Standards.
   (A)   Number of required off-street loading spaces. Every use listed under
the Commercial Use classification in
Table 164.01, Table of Allowed Uses, shall provide one off-street loading space
for every 5,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Minimum dimensions. Each loading space required by this section
shall be at least 12 feet wide by 40 feet long (or deep), with at least 15 feet
of overhead clearance. Each off-street loading space shall have adequate,
unobstructed means for the ingress and egress of vehicles.
      (2)   Location. Where possible, loading areas shall be located to the
rear of the use they serve; in addition, the loading area shall be located
adjacent to the buildings loading doors, in an area that promotes their
practical use.
      (3)   Delineation of loading spaces. All loading spaces shall be
delineated by signage and striping and labeling of the pavement.
      (4)   Access to a street. Every loading area shall be provided with safe
and convenient access to a street, but in no case shall the loading space
extend into the required aisle of the parking lot.
      (5)   Paving. The ground surface of loading areas shall be paved with a
durable, dust-free and hard material, such as surface and seal treatment,
bituminous hot mix or Portland cement, concrete, or some comparable material.
Such paving shall be maintained for safe and convenient use at all times.
      (6)   Landscaping. Loading areas shall be landscaped in accordance with §
166.02-05, Vehicular Use Area Landscaping.
      (7)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting for loading areas shall comply
with the standards in §
166.10, Exterior Lighting.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.06-11 Driveways.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, DRIVEWAY is defined as the area of a
property used for ingress and egress and parking.
   (B)   Ordinarily, the portion of a driveway that crosses the right-of-way
shall not be wider than 15 feet, and no property can have more than one
driveway per street frontage. The maximum number of driveways allowed is two.
Exceptions to the width and number of driveways can be granted by the city for
good cause, but in no case shall any driveway be permitted that is less than 20
feet from another driveway on the same property without the approval of City
Council.
   (C)   All new driveways constructed in the residential zones of the city
shall include a hard apron, no wider than 15 feet, from the property line to
the paved surface of the adjacent street. An application for a new driveway
must be accompanied by any necessary encroachment permit from the SCDOT.
   (D)   All driveways and parking areas in residential zones shall be
constructed of pervious materials with no compactible subbase. Parking areas
underneath the footprints of existing and proposed structures are exempt. City
Council or its designee may grant exemptions to this requirement when no option
for pervious material exists. Gravel driveways must include landscaping borders
flush or above the surface of the driveway. Any border installed per this
section must be maintained to prevent the spread of gravel beyond the footprint
of the driveway.
   (E)   No new driveways shall be created from Center Street if the parcel in
question has access from another street or alley of adequate size to allow
access.
(Ord. 28-12, passed 10-9-12; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 3-12-13; Am. Ord. 23-14,
passed 11-11-14; Am. Ord. 029-24, passed 3-11-25)
§ 166.07 TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS.
   (Reserved).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.08 SIGN STANDARDS.
   § 166.08-01 Purpose and Intent.
   The purpose and intent of these sign regulations is to:
   (A)   Encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication in
the city;
   (B)   Maintain and enhance the pleasing look of the city, which attracts
visitors to the city for major events of local, regional, and statewide
interest;
   (C)   Preserve Folly Beach as a community that is attractive to business and
residents;
   (D)   Improve pedestrian and traffic safety;
   (E)   Minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public and
private property;
   (F)   Ensure that signs in the community are compatible with the high-
quality image that the city seeks and in which the city continuously invests;
   (G)   Limit the aesthetic impact of signs on properties to prevent clutter
and protect streetscapes; and
   (H)   Preserve property values.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18)
   § 166.08-02 Applicability.
   (A)   General.  Unless exempted in accordance with §
166.08-04, Standards for Permanent and Temporary Signs Not Requiring Permits,
no sign allowed by this section shall be erected, repaired, altered, relocated,
maintained or displayed without first being issued a sign permit in accordance
with §
162.03-11, Sign Permit, and complying with the relevant standards of this
section.
      (1)   Noncommercial signs as defined in §
161.02, Definitions, are any signs that does not: solicit business; advertise
products or services, including home occupations, non-profits, or donation or
tip-based enterprises; provide business or commercial contact information of
any sort; explicitly or implicitly indicate that a commercial enterprise is
being conducted on the property; or explicitly or implicitly indicate that the
property is available for rent, including, but not limited to, a business name,
real estate company or agency name, rental agency name, including on-line
rental websites, website or domain name, email address, physical address other
than the property itself, or telephone number. Examples of non-commercial signs
include the resident's family names; the resident's address; street numbers;
school or sports logos or names; spiritual, inspirational, social, or political
statements; and house names that do not provide contact information or imply
availability as a rental property.
      (2)   Commercial signs as defined in §
161.02, Definitions, are any signs providing commercial or contact information
of any sort including, but not limited to, business name, website or domain
name, email address, physical address other than the property itself, or
telephone number.
   (B)   Responsibility for compliance.  Review for compliance with the
standards of this section shall occur at the time of application for a sign
permit; §
162.03-11; site plan, §
162.03-06; preliminary subdivision plat, §
162.03-07(D); planned development, §
162.03-02; or zoning permit, §
162.03-13, whichever is appropriate.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18)
   § 166.08-03 Prohibited Signs.
   (A)   Signs displaying intermittent lights resembling the flashing lights
customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance or rescue
vehicles or any sign using the words "stop," "danger," or any other word,
phrase, symbol, or character in a manner that might mislead or confuse an
automobile or other vehicular driver.
   (B)   Signs within any street or highway right-of-way, whether temporary or
permanent, except traffic signs and signal and information signs erected by a
public agency.
   (C)   Signs painted on or attached to trees, telephone or other utility
poles, or signs painted on or attached to rocks or other natural features or
painted on the roofs of buildings.
   (D)   Signs in the marsh or signs interrupting the vista of the marsh.
   (E)   Exterior signs in the Residential Districts that are illuminated
internally or externally in any manner except:
      (1)   Noncommercial signs that reference a celebrated holiday.
      (2)   Signs advertising security and home protection services which are
externally illuminated by downward facing light focused on the exterior of the
sign according to the standards of §
166.10-09, Sign Lighting.
      (3)   House numbers and street addresses.
   (F)   Exterior signs in the Commercial Districts that are illuminated
internally in any manner or are externally illuminated in any way other than by
downward facing light focused on the exterior of the sign according to the
standards of §
166.10-09, Sign Lighting.
   (G)   Commercial signs in the Residential Districts, other than temporary
long term rental signs and home security signs in compliance with the standards
of § 
166.08-04, Standards for Permanent and Temporary Signs Not Requiring Permits,
including home occupations, non-profits, or donation or tip-based enterprises.
This includes any sign providing commercial or contact information of any sort
or otherwise implying that a property is available for rent or advertising a
commercial service, including, but not limited to, business name, real estate
company or agency name, rental agency name, including on-line rental websites,
website or domain name, email address, physical address other than the property
itself, or telephone number.
   (H)   Off-premises signs.
   (I)   Roof signs of any type in the Residential Districts.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18)
   § 166.08-04 Standards For Permanent and Temporary Signs Not Requiring Sign
Permits.
   (A)   Permanent signs for which a permit is not required are limited to:
      (1)   Signs of duly constituted governmental bodies, including traffic,
directional, warning, or other informational signs;
         (a)   Signs of duly constituted governmental bodies may be internally
illuminated or feature electronic message boards if approved by City Council by
resolution.
         (b)   Signs of duly constituted governmental bodies may exceed three
square feet if approved by City Council by resolution.
      (2)   Non-commercial signs that are not prohibited in §
166.08-03, Prohibited Signs.
         (a)   Noncommercial signs, other than house numbers and signs
referencing a celebrated holiday, may not be internally or externally
illuminated in any way.
         (b)   The cumulative area of allowable noncommercial signs, other than
house numbers and signs referencing a celebrated holiday, on any lot must be
less than twenty square feet.
      (3)   Signs advertising security and home protection services.
         (a)   No more than two such signs are located on any lot.
         (b)   Each sign is less than three square feet in area.
         (c)   Signs advertising security and home protection services may be
externally illuminated by downward facing light focused on the exterior of the
sign according to the standards of §
166.10-09, Sign Lighting.
   (B)   Temporary signs that are not prohibited in §
166.08-03, Prohibited Signs, shall not require issuance of a sign permit and
shall include:
      (1)   Construction signs no larger than four square feet. Construction
signs must be removed within one week of the issuance of a Certificate of
Occupancy or Final Inspection of the project;
      (2)   Notices of public events no larger than twelve square feet;
      (3)   For sale signs provided such signs are clearly marked with the
words For Sale and no larger than four square feet. For sale signs must be
removed within one week of the sale of the property;
      (4)   Official notices issued by any court, public agency, or officer of
any court or public agency.
      (5)   Signs advertising garage or yard and no larger than four square
feet;
      (6)   Non-commercial signs that are not prohibited in §
166.08-03, Prohibited Signs.
         (a)   Noncommercial signs referencing celebrated holidays and house
numbers may be internally or externally illuminated.
         (b)   The cumulative area of allowable noncommercial signs, other than
house numbers and signs referencing a celebrated holiday, on any lot must be
less than twenty square feet.
      (7)   Temporary on premises long-term rental signs placed by property
owners or residents advertising a long-term rental (for a period of 29 days or
longer) at that residence subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Only one sign per street frontage;
         (b)   Not exceeding four square feet;
         (c)   Not illuminated;
         (d)   Must be clearly marked For Long Term Rent Only; and
         (e)   Not displayed for longer than six months.
      (8)   Political election signs.
      (9)   Temporary signs shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Signs shall be removed within one week following the conclusion
of the event being advertised unless otherwise stated in §
166.08-04(B) above;
         (b)   Signs shall not be displayed for longer than six months.
         (c)   Signs may not be externally or internally illuminated unless
otherwise stated in §
166.08-04(B) above.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 02-17, passed 4-11-17; Am. Ord. 04-18,
passed 9-25-18)
   § 166.08-05 Standards For Signs Requiring Sign Permits.
   In addition to the requirements of §
162.03-11, Sign Permit, and all other applicable building codes, all signs
shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   Sign allotment.  Different land uses are allotted a designated amount
of signage based on the standards in this section. Signage may consist of wall
signs, freestanding signs, directory signs, and temporary signs, provided the
amount of signage does not exceed the allowable allotment
   (B)   Sound structural condition. All signs shall be maintained in sound
structural condition. No sign shall be allowed to deteriorate to a condition in
which it requires repairs or renovations in an amount that exceeds 50% of its
current replacement cost. Signs that deteriorate to such a condition are in
violation of this ZDO and, shall be either removed or replaced. If a sign is
replaced, it shall comply with the standards in this section at the time of
replacement.
   (C)   Sign face area calculation.
      (1)   General.  The sign face area shall be the surface of the sign.
      (2)   Size of sign face area. In the case of freestanding signs, the sign
face area consists of the entire surface area of the sign.
      (3)   Supporting structure not counted.  The supporting structure or
bracing of a sign shall not be counted as part of sign face area unless such
structure or bracing is made a part of the sign's message.
      (4)   Collocation. Individual uses on adjoining lands may place their
individual freestanding signage on a single sign support structure provided the
combined sign face area does not exceed the amount of sign face area permitted
if the freestanding signs would have been constructed separately. Sign support
structures shall comply with the height limits in
Table 166.10, Specifications for Signs Requiring Permits, regardless of the
number of collocated signage.
   (D)   Sign height.
      (1)   Sign height shall be measured from the base of the sign at an
established grade to the highest point of the sign support structure, or sign
face, whichever is higher. For the purposes of this subsection, ESTABLISHED
GRADE shall mean the newly created grade after construction, not including any
filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of locating
the sign. In cases where the established grade is below the grade of the street
to which the sign is oriented, sign height shall be computed on the assumption
that the elevation of the established grade at the base of the sign is equal to
the elevation of the crown of the adjacent street.
      (2)   In no instance shall a sign's height exceed 30 feet.
   (E)   Wall signs. Signs on walls of buildings (including signs attached flat
against the wall, painted wall signs, and projecting signals) shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The total area of signs on the exterior front surface of a building
shall not exceed 20% of the front surface of the building.
      (2)   The total area of signs of side or rear surface of a building shall
not exceed 25% of the exterior side or rear surface of the building
respectively.
      (3)   The combined sign area on front, side, and rear surface of a
building shall not exceed 25% of the exterior side or rear surface of the
building respectively.
      (4)   Wall signs attached flat against a wall may not extend more than 24
inches from the wall. A projecting sign may not extend above the roof line.
   (F)   Freestanding signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs shall have an open space of three feet between
the lower edge of the sign and the ground level, 50% of which space may be
filled in with a platform and decorative lattice work of light or wooden or
metal construction.
   (G)   Distance from wall. The ends of all signs shall be at least five feet
distant from any wall or fence of any obstruction that would prevent a clear
passage around the ends.
   (H)   Distance to lot line. Signs in the RSF and RTF districts shall be
located a minimum of five feet from any lot line.
   (I)   Visibility. All signs shall conform to both the sight distance and the
sight triangle standards (See §
167.01-04(C)(5), Sight Distance Triangle), and no sign shall be erected so it
obstructs vision or sight distances at driveway entrances and exits.
   (J)   Sign safety. Signs shall not be placed where they pose a hazard to
pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
   (K)   Construction standards. All signs shall be constructed and installed
in accordance with the structural and safety requirements of the Folly Beach
Building Code.
   (L)   Responsibility. All signs erected, used, or maintained shall be the
responsibility of the sign owner who shall hold the city harmless from all
damage arising and resulting from the construction, use, and maintenance of
such signs.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18)
   § 166.08-06 Additional Sign Standards in the Commercial Districts.
   In addition to the standards of §
166.08-05, Standards for Signs Requiring Sign Permits, all signs requiring Sign
Permits, including wall signs, (See §
162.03-11) shall comply with the standards of
Table 166.10, Specifications for Signs Requiring Permits by Zoning District.
TABLE 166.10: SPECIFICATIONS FOR SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS BY ZONING DISTRICT
ZONING DISTRICT SIGN TYPE/LOCATION MAXIMUM AREA  ADDITIONAL STANDARDS (1)
                                   (square feet)
TABLE 166.10: SPECIFICATIONS FOR SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS BY ZONING DISTRICT
ZONING DISTRICT SIGN TYPE/LOCATION     MAXIMUM AREA      ADDITIONAL STANDARDS
                                       (square feet)     (1)
                Sign on commercial lot 20 per sign       Maximum of 4 signs on
DC                                                       any lot
                Sign on vacant lot     3                  
                Sign on commercial lot 20 per sign       Maximum of 4 signs on
IC                                                       any lot
                Sign on vacant lot     20                 
                                                         May be illuminated so
MC              Business               20                long as it does not
                identification sign                      illuminate any
                                                         residential structures
                Sign on commercial lot 80 total for 4 or
CC                                     fewer signs       Maximum of 4 signs on
                Sign on vacant lot     20                any lot

NOTES:
(1)   All freestanding signs shall be at least five feet from any wall, fence,
or any other structure that would prevent a clear passage around the sign.
 
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18)
§ 166.08-07 Nonconforming Signs.
   Existing nonconforming signs, and signs rendered nonconforming by the
adoption of this ZDO (or any amendment thereto) shall be controlled by the
standards in §
168.05, Nonconforming Signs.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18)
§ 166.09 FENCES AND WALLS.
   § 166.09-01 Purpose.
   This section establishes standards for fences and walls on private lots.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.09-02 Applicability.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to all new construction,
redevelopment, or replacement of fences or walls not required for support of a
primary or accessory structure, or any other linear barrier intended to
delineate different portions of a lot. In the event of any inconsistency
between the provisions of this section and any screening standard in §
166.02-07, Screening, the latter shall govern.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.09-03 General Requirements For Fences and Walls.
   (A)   Location. Fences are permitted on the property line between two or
more parcels of land held in private ownership.
   (B)   Temporary fences. Temporary fences for construction sites or a similar
purpose shall comply with the requirements of the Building Code adopted by the
city.
   (C)   Fences in easements. Fences shall be prohibited within utility
easements and the city shall not be responsible for damage to, or the repair or
replacement of fences that must be removed to access such easements. In no
instance shall this provision be construed to prevent fencing around stormwater
retention or detention facilities required by this ZDO.
   (D)   Blocking natural drainage flow. No fence shall be installed so as to
block or divert a natural drainage flow on to or off of any other land.
   (E)   Fences on retaining walls or berms. If a fence is constructed on top
of a wall or berm, the combined height of the fence and wall or berm shall not
exceed the maximum height that would apply to a fence or wall alone.
   (F)   Fences and walls within buffers. Fences and walls shall be installed
so as not to disturb or damage existing vegetation or installed plant material.
The perimeter fencing or wall for a single subdivision or development shall be
of a uniform, approved style that meets the standards of this section in order
to provide visual interest in an orderly manner.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.09-04 Height Requirements For Fences and Walls.
   All fences and walls shall conform to the following standards. In all cases,
heights are measured from existing grade.
   (A)   Residential districts. In the residential districts, fences and walls
shall not exceed a height of six feet. If a fence is constructed on top of a
retaining or other wall, the combined height of the fence and wall shall not
exceed the maximum height that would apply to a fence or wall alone.
   (B)   Nonresidential districts. In the nonresidential districts, fences and
walls shall not be permitted in front setback areas. Fences and walls shall not
exceed eight feet in height in all other areas. If a fence is constructed on
top of a retaining or other wall, the combined height of the fence and wall
shall not exceed the maximum height that would apply to a fence or wall alone.
   (C)   Exemption for required screening. Fencing provided to meet the
standards of §
166.02-07, Screening, is exempted from the height standards of this subsection,
subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator, but in no case shall the
fencing exceed the maximum height limits of §
166.02-07, Screening.
   (D)   Exemption for recreational fencing. Customary fencing provided as a
part of a permitted tennis court, athletic field, or other recreational
facility shall be exempt from the height restrictions of this subsection,
subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Exemption for safety. Major utilities, government facilities, and
other public safety uses shall be exempted from these standards as needed for
public safety, subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.09-05 Perimeter Fences and Walls Abutting Public Rights-of-Way.
   Perimeter fences or walls abutting a public right-of-way shall:
   (A)   Be of a uniform style;
   (B)   Be located outside the right-of-way associated with a public street;
and
   (C)   Include breaks in the wall plane at least every 200 feet.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.09-06 Visibility Clearance.
   Fences, walls, and plantings shall be placed in accordance with the
standards in §
167.01-04(C)(6), Sight Triangles.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.09-07 Prohibited Fences.
   (A)   Chain link and metal-slat fencing. Fences and walls constructed of
chain link or metal slats are prohibited within the front yard in all
residential zoning districts.
   (B)   Barbed wire and above ground electrified fences prohibited. Except as
needed for major utilities, government facilities, and other public safety
uses, barbed wire fences and above ground electrified fences are prohibited in
all zoning districts. Underground electric fences designed for control of
domestic animals are permitted.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.09-08 Appearance of Fences and Walls.
   (A)   Customary materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of
customary materials, including solid wood, brick, masonry, stone, brick,
wrought iron, decorative metal materials, or products designed to resemble
these materials.
   (B)   Finished side to outside. Wherever a fence or wall is installed, if
one side of the fence or wall appears more "finished" than the other (i.e., one
side has visible support framing and the other does not), then the more
"finished" side of the fence shall face the perimeter or outside of the lot,
rather than facing the interior of the lot.
   (C)   Chain link fencing. Where allowed, chain link fencing shall be vinyl
coated and colored dark green or black.
   (D)   Landscape screening. Fences and walls that exceed two-and-one-half
feet in height and are located within 20 feet of a public right-of-way shall
meet the following landscaping standards:
      (1)   Shrubs required. One evergreen shrub shall be installed for each
five feet of frontage along the public right-of-way. Shrubs may be installed in
a staggered, clustered, grouped, or linear fashion, and all plantings shall be
installed on the side of the fence that faces the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Substitution of understory trees. One understory or ornamental tree
may be substituted for every three evergreen shrubs provided that the tree
meets the minimum size standards at the time of planting found in §
166.02-03(C), New Planting Standards.
      (3)   Integration with other required landscaping. Required landscape
screening for fences or walls may be integrated into the landscaping required
for streetscape landscaping, vehicular use area screening, or perimeter buffers
provided the standards in §
166.02, Landscaping Standards, are maintained. In no case shall fencing or
required walls be placed between the edge of the right-of-way and any required
streetscape landscaping.
   (E)   Maintenance required. All fences and walls shall be maintained by the
owner in good repair and in a safe and attractive condition, including but not
limited to replacement of missing, decayed, or broken structural and decorative
elements. All fences and walls shall receive regular structural maintenance to
prevent and address sagging and weathering of surfaces visible from the public
right-of-way. Any deteriorated, damaged or decayed fence materials shall be
promptly repaired, and any fence or wall post or section that leans more than
20 degrees from vertical shall be promptly repaired to correct that condition.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.10 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   § 166.10-01 Purpose.
   The purpose of this section is to control light spillage and glare so as not
to adversely affect motorists, pedestrians, natural areas, vistas, and land
uses of adjacent properties. More specifically, this section is intended to:
   (A)   Control lighting to assure that excessive light spillage and glare are
not directed at adjacent properties, neighboring areas, and motorists;
   (B)   Ensure that all site lighting is designed and installed to maintain
adequate lighting levels on site;
   (C)   Provide security for persons and land; and
   (D)   Avoid negative impacts to wildlife from exterior lighting.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 06-19, passed 4-9-19)
   § 166.10-02 Applicability.
   (A)   General. Unless exempted in accordance with §
166.10-03, Exemptions, the provisions of this section apply to all zoning
districts within the city.
   (B)   Time of compliance. A lighting plan shall be submitted with an
application for a site plan, §
162.03-06; preliminary subdivision plat, §
162.03-07(D); or zoning permit, §
162.03-13, whichever is appropriate.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.10-03 Exemptions.
   The standards of this section shall not apply to city-owned, operated, or
maintained street lights located within a street right-of-way or other easement
granted to the city.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.10-04 Design Standards For Exterior Lighting.
   All exterior lighting shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Maximum lighting height.
      (1)   Except for outdoor sports fields or performance areas, outdoor
lighting heights shall be no greater than:
         (a)   Eighteen feet above grade for pedestrian lighting; and
         (b)   Thirty feet above grade for vehicular lighting.
      (2)   Wherever possible, illumination of outdoor seating areas, building
entrances, and walkways shall be accomplished by use of ground-mounted fixtures
not more than four feet in height.
   (B)   Illumination direction.
      (1)   In all districts, lighting of nonresidential development shall be
directed downward. In addition, upwardly-directed lighting shall not be used to
illuminate structures, except for low-wattage architectural lighting.
      (2)   Outdoor lighting shall not shine directly into the yard or windows
of adjacent residential uses.
      (3)   Outdoor lighting on residential or commercial structures facing the
Folly River must be shielded so that light is directed downward and does not
shine directly onto the river.
   (C)   Location.  All lighting shall be located at least ten feet from side
lot lines, rear lot lines, or required perimeter buffers.
   (D)   Shielding.  
      (1)   Light fixtures in excess of 60 watts or 100 lumens shall use full
cut-off lenses or hoods to prevent glare or spillover from the project site
onto adjacent lands and streets.
      (2)   No interior light source shall be positioned, aimed, or configured
so as to result in the light source being visible from land occupied by
existing residential development.
      (3)   No light source in a canopy structure shall extend downward further
than the lowest edge of the canopy ceiling.
      (4)   Awnings or canopies used for building accents over doors, windows,
etc., shall not be internally illuminated (i.e., from underneath or behind the
awning).
   (E)   Maximum light levels. All outdoor lighting shall be designed and
located such that the maximum illumination measured in foot candles at the
property line shall not exceed one foot candle. The average intensity
illumination for outdoor lighting shall not exceed four foot candles in
intensity as measured at grade. Vehicular use area lighting shall not exceed a
maintained average of two-and-one-half foot candles.
   (F)   Uniformity ratios.  
      (1)   In order to maintain uniformity in light levels across a
development, and prevent or minimize dark areas, the ratio of maximum to
minimum lighting levels on a given site or parcel of land as measured in foot
candles at ground level, shall not exceed 15:1 in the residential districts or
10:1 in the nonresidential districts. Parking lots shall maintain the same
uniformity ratios as the principal use they serve. In the cases of mixed uses,
the uniformity ratios for nonresidential districts shall apply.
      (2)   The quantity of fixtures to be provided shall be based upon the
desired level of uniform illumination as established by the current standards
of the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA).
   (G)   Hue. All outdoor and parking lot lighting fixtures, including: metal
halide, mercury vapor, fluorescent, induction, white high-pressure sodium and
color-improved high-pressure sodium lamps used in non-cutoff fixtures shall be
coated with an internal white frosting inside the outer lamp envelope.
   (H)   Additional standards in beachfront areas. For purposes of protecting
nesting sea turtle habitat, the following standards shall apply to all uses on
lots adjacent to the beachfront;
      (1)   The source of illumination shall not be directly visible from the
beach.
      (2)   Exterior lighting within sight of the beach shall be a maximum of
50 watts and designed with recessed fixtures.
      (3)   Low-intensity lighting set on a base no higher than 48 inches off
of the ground shall be utilized in parking lots.
      (4)   Parking lots shall be sited so as to minimize headlight glare
directed on the beach, or shall incorporate ground-level barriers to mitigate
the effects of headlights on beach areas.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 06-19, passed 4-9-19)
   § 166.10-05 Wall-Mounted Lights.
   Wall-mounted lights shall be fully shielded luminaries (such as shoebox or
can style fixtures) to prevent the light source from being visible from any
adjacent residential property or public street right-of-way. Nothing in this
subsection shall prevent the use of sconces or other decorative lighting
fixtures provided that the source of illumination is not visible from adjacent
lands used or zoned for residential purposes, and provided that the maximum
illumination values comply with the standards in §
166.10-04(E), Maximum Light Levels.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.10-06 Floodlights and Spotlights.
   Floodlights and spotlights shall be selected, located, aimed, and shielded
so that direct illumination is focused exclusively on a portion of the building
facade or other intended site feature and away from adjoining lands or the
right-of-way. On-site lighting may be used to accent architectural elements but
shall not be used to illuminate entire portions of building(s). Such lighting
shall be installed in a fixture that is shielded so that no portion of the
light bulb extends below the bottom edge or above the top edge of the shield,
and the main beam from the light source is not visible from adjacent lands of
the adjacent right-of-way. Floodlights or other type of lighting attached to
light poles that illuminate the site or building(s) are prohibited.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.10-07 Wall Pack Lights.
   Wall packs on buildings may be used at entrances to a building to light
unsafe areas. They are not intended to draw attention to the building or
provide general building or site lighting. Wall packs on the exterior of the
building shall be fully shielded (true cut-off type bulb or light source not
visible from off-site) to direct the light downward and be of low wattage
(preferably 100 watts or lower). Other accent lighting projected onto buildings
may be allowed provided that it is approved through the development plan
process.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.10-08 Illumination of Outdoor Sports Fields and Performance Areas.
   All lighting fixtures serving outdoor sports fields and performance areas
shall be equipped with a glare control package (e.g., louvers, shields, or
similar devices), and the fixtures shall be aimed so that their beams are
directed and fall within the primary playing or performance area.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 166.10-09 Sign Lighting.
   Lighting fixtures illuminating signs shall comply with the standards of this
section, and such fixtures shall be aimed and shielded so that direct
illumination is focused exclusively on the sign face.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.11 AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
   (Reserved).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.12 PROTECTION OF HISTORIC SITES AND STRUCTURES.
   (Reserved).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 166.13 PEDESTRIAN IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The intent of these provisions is to promote the
construction of multi-use paths within the commercial districts to provide safe
routes for pedestrians and bicyclists.
   (B)   Applicability. The requirements of this section shall apply to all
properties in the Island Commercial District and Downtown Commercial District
for which City Council has approved a conceptual plan for multi-use paths
located in the right-of-way adjacent to the property.
   (C)   A separated 12-foot multi-use path shall be installed adjacent to all
parcels in an areas with an approved conceptual plan for multi-use paths upon
the construction of any new commercial or residential structure as well as upon
the substantial improvement of any existing commercial or residential
structure.
      (1)   The city shall be responsible for the final design, engineering,
and permitting along with associated costs for each section of the path.
      (2)   The construction costs shall be paid by the property owner. Upon
request, the city may assist with bidding for construction.
      (3)   The approved conceptual design may be altered by the city if
conflicts with trees, utilities, or other conditions exist that would render
the required width unfeasible.
(Ord. 015-22, passed 6-14-22)
CHAPTER 167: SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
Section
   
167.01   Subdivisions
      
167.01-01   Purpose and intent
      
167.01-02   Applicability
      
167.01-03   General requirements
      
167.01-04   Subdivision design standards
   
167.02   Conservation subdivision
      
167.02-01   Purpose and intent
      
167.02-02   Applicability
      
167.02-03   Procedure
      
167.02-04   Conservation subdivision standards
      
167.02-05   Open space set-aside and buffer standards
   
167.03   Performance agreements
      
167.03-01   General
      
167.03-02   Bonding prohibited
      
167.03-03   Performance guarantees
      
167.03-04   Forfeiture of security
§ 167.01 SUBDIVISIONS.
   § 167.01-01 Purpose and Intent.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the standards for the
subdivision of land within the city. These provisions are intended to:
   (A)   Provide for harmonious, orderly, and progressive land development to
promote the public health, safety, economy, good order, appearance, convenience
and general welfare of the citizens of the city;
   (B)   Encourage the development of an economically sound and stable
municipality;
   (C)   Assure, in general, the wise and timely development of new areas or
redevelopment of areas in harmony with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (D)   Assure the timely provisions of required streets, utilities and other
facilities and services to new land development; and
   (E)   Assure safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both
vehicular and pedestrian, in and through new land developments.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.01-02 Applicability.
   (A)   General. Unless exempted by §
162.03-07(A)(2), Exemptions, the standards in this section shall be minimum
standards that apply to all subdivisions of land in the city.
   (B)   Installation of required public improvements. All required public
improvements shall be installed prior to the approval of a final subdivision
plat (See §
162.03-07(D)(9)), in accordance with the standards in this section.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.01-03 General Requirements.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements and standards set forth in this section and other specifications
and policies of the city and the state.
   (B)   No construction or installation of improvements shall begin in a
proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved by the
Planning Commission and all applicable permits have been issued.
   (C)   All public agencies shall have access to the premises and structures
of a subdivision under this section during reasonable business hours to make
those inspections as deemed necessary by them to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Before beginning any work within the subdivision, the developer or
developer's contractors shall make arrangements with those public agencies
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter to provide for
adequate inspection of the improvements.
   (E)   Approval of the final plat for recording shall not be given by the
Planning Commission unless the developer has installed the required
improvements as herein specified and required.
   (F)   Field changes based on site conditions shall be approved by the city
prior to issuance of a final plat, but changes to lot lines or road alignments
shall require approval by the Planning Commission in accordance with §
162.03-07, Subdivision.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.01-04 Subdivision Design Standards.
   (A)   Markers. Markers shall be constructed of steel rods or iron pipes not
less than 5/8-inch in diameter and not less than 30 inches long and shall be
placed vertically in the ground at the following locations:
      (1)   All angles formed by intersection of lot lines; and
      (2)   All exterior corners of the subdivision.
   (B)   Lots. Lots in new subdivisions shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   All lots shall be accessible by streets built to the minimum county
standard.
      (2)   The lot size, width, shape, grade and orientation shall be in
relation to street and block design, existing and proposed topographical and
natural vegetative conditions, and the type of development and use
contemplated.
      (3)   Corner lots shall be of sufficient size and shape to permit
required building setback and orientation to both streets.
      (4)   When a residential subdivision is proposed that would abut an
arterial, it shall be designed to provide through lots along the arterial with
access from a frontage road or interior local road. Access rights of these lots
to the arterial shall be dedicated to the city and recorded with the deed.
      (5)   Any remnants of land not meeting all the requirements of this ZDO
for the required lot size shall be either incorporated in existing or proposed
lots or preserved as open space set-aside.
      (6)   Flag lots shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Flag lots shall not be permitted when their effect would be to
increase the number of properties requiring direct and individual access
connections to the state highway system or other major thoroughfares.
         (b)   Flag lots may be permitted for residential development, when
deemed necessary to achieve planning objectives, such as preserving natural or
historic resources under the following conditions:
             1.   Flag lot driveway shall be separated from other driveways by
at least the minimum lot width requirement of the zoning district.
            2.   The flag lot driveway shall have a minimum width of 21 feet.
            3.   In no instance shall flag lots constitute more than 10% of the
total number of building sites in a subdivision.
            4.   The lot area occupied by the flag lot driveway shall not be
counted as part of the required minimum lot area of that zoning district.
   (C)   Streets. Public streets shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Street design.
         (a)   All shoulders and slopes shall be prepared in compliance with
the State Department of Highways and Public Transportation, Standard
Specifications for Highway Construction, latest edition.
         (b)   Streets shall be designed in accordance with all state
requirements.
         (c)   All shoulders and slopes shall be protected from erosion.
         (d)   Subdivisions with frontage on the state highway system shall be
designed with shared access points to and from the highway.
         (e)   Normally a maximum of two accesses shall be allowed regardless
of the number of lots or businesses served.
         (f)   Direct access to individual one- and two-family dwellings shall
be prohibited on the state highways.
         (g)   Roadways built in coastal watersheds shall be designed and
located so as to prevent pollution of runoff water or interference with natural
drainage patterns.
         (h)   Major roadways within the coastal flood plain shall be located
parallel to land drainage flow (generally, perpendicular to the coast).
         (i)   Essential minor roadways shall be designed to facilitate the
flow of land drainage and coastal waters.
         (j)   Essential wetland, tideland and estuarine crossings shall be
built as elevated structures.
         (k)   Bridge structures shall be designed so as not to impede or
reduce the natural volume or rate of flow of water.
         (l)   Lots on Center Street shall be limited to one curb cut with a
maximum width of ten feet.
         (m)   Lots in the RSF and RTF districts shall be limited to two curb
cuts separated by at least ten feet.
      (2)   Street signs.
         (a)   Street name signs shall be installed at all intersections by the
subdivider. The design, construction, materials and placement of all street
name signs shall conform to the requirements of the city, or a comparable
street name and house numbering plan approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Stop signs shall be placed at all cross type and "r" type
intersections in conformance with the requirements contained in the State
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
      (3)   Street names.
         (a)   The preliminary plat as submitted shall not indicate any names
for proposed streets. The Planning Commission shall name all roads upon
recommendation of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall
consult the applicant and the local postmaster prior to rendering its
recommendation to the Planning Commission. Names shall be sufficiently
different in sound and spelling from other road names so as not to cause
confusion.
         (b)   A road which is or is planned as a continuation of an existing
road shall bear the same name.
      (4)   Street connectivity.
         (a)   The street system of a proposed subdivision shall be designed to
coordinate with existing, proposed, and planned streets outside of the
subdivision.
         (b)   Whenever a proposed development abuts unplatted land or a future
development phase of the same development, street stubs shall be provided as
deemed necessary by the Department of Public Works to provide access to
abutting properties or to logically extend the street system into the
surrounding area.
         (c)   All street stubs shall be provided with temporary turnarounds or
cul-de-sacs unless specifically exempted by the city, and the restoration and
extension of the street shall be the responsibility of any future developer of
the abutting land.
         (d)   Collector streets shall intersect with collector or arterial
streets at safe and convenient locations.
         (e)   Sub-collector and local residential access streets shall connect
with surrounding streets to permit the convenient movement of traffic between
residential neighborhoods or facilitate emergency access and evacuation, but
the connections shall not be permitted where the effect would be to encourage
the use of such streets by through traffic.
         (f)   Subdivisions on a single residential access street ending in a
cul-de-sac or dead end shall not exceed 25 lots or dwelling units, and the cul-
de-sac shall have a minimum cartway radius of 35 feet.
         (g)   Sight distance triangle.
            1.   No object or sign shall interfere with visibility within the
sight distance triangle of an intersection of public streets (assuming eye
level at three and one-half feet to six feet from a distance of 15 feet from
the edge of the pavement) (See Figure 167.1: Sight Distance Triangle.).
            2.   The length of the sight distance triangle shall be calculated
in accordance with
Table 167.01, Sight Distance Triangle Determination.
TABLE 167.01: SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE DETERMINATION
# OF LANES MINIMUM SIGHT DISTANCE
           (In feet per every 10 mph of street design speed)
TABLE 167.01: SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE DETERMINATION
# OF LANES MINIMUM SIGHT DISTANCE
           (In feet per every 10 mph of street design speed)
2          100
3          110
4          120
5          125
6          130
Example: A two-lane street with a design speed of 35 mph would require a
minimum sight distance of 350 feet from the edge of an intersection (100 x 35
= 350)
 
            3.   
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7023.jpg]
 
         (h)   Sight triangles. Wherever an alley, private drive, or driveway
intersects with a public street, the following standards apply:
            1.   Street/alley sight triangle. No visual obstruction over three
and one-half feet in height shall be permitted within the 25-foot sight
distance triangle created at the intersection of an alley and street. As
depicted in Figure 167.02, Sight Triangles, the triangle is measured from a
point where the curb line and the center line of the alley meet. The distance
from this point shall be 25 feet along the street curb line ("B") and 25 feet
along the alley center line ("A"). The third side of the triangle ("C")
connects these two sides, creating the sight distance triangle.
            2.   Garage entrance/alley sight triangle. No visual obstruction
over three and one-half feet in height shall be permitted within the six-foot
sight distance triangle created at the intersection of a garage entrance and
alley.
            3.   Driveway/street sight triangle. No visual obstruction over
three and one-half feet in height shall be permitted within the ten-foot sight
distance triangle created at the intersection of a driveway and street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed3a9274f9517143858c9b8db0b80baf95cb6430/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7025.jpg]
 
         (i)   Vertical curves. Minimum stopping sight distance shall be in
accordance with
Table 167.02, Minimum Sight Stopping Distance Standards:
 
TABLE 167.02: MINIMUM STOPPING DISTANCE STANDARDS
STREET TYPE                    REQUIRED MINIMUM SIGHT DESIGN SPEED (MPH)
                               STOPPING DISTANCE (FT)
Place, lane, sub-collector and 150                    25
lower order streets
Residential and major          225                    35
collector
Arterial                       As determined by SCDOT
 
   (D)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depth. Exceptions to this standard shall be permitted in blocks
adjacent to arterial streets, railroads, or waterways.
      (2)   No block shall be less than 600 feet in length. Where practicable,
blocks along highways and arterials and collector streets shall be not less
than 1,000 feet in length and no more than 1,400 feet in length.
      (3)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, shall
be required through the center of blocks more than 800 feet long where deemed
essential to provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds or other
community facilities.
   (E)   Sidewalks and pedestrian access.  
      (1)   Sidewalks may be required.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated right-of-way when
indicated by the Planning Commission. Multi-use paths may be substituted for
sidewalks on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least two feet
wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent roads.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may require, in order to facilitate
pedestrian access from the roads to parks, playgrounds or other nearby roads,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 20 feet in width.
   (F)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements shall be provided as required herein for this chapter for
road rights-of-way and as required for the installation and maintenance of all
utility systems.
      (2)   All easements shall be indicated on the preliminary and final
subdivision plat.
   (G)   Connectivity.  Street and sidewalk systems shall be configured to
encourage interconnectivity between new developments and existing developed
areas.
   (H)   Stormwater drainage.
      (1)   A drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider consistent with the design principals and standards in this ZDO and
adequate to provide proper drainage of the surface water of the subdivision,
the drainage area of which it is a part and the protection of downstream
property owners from any increased runoff due to development. The following
standards shall apply to all new subdivisions.
      (2)   Drainage easements shall be provided so that hazards to properties
within the proposed subdivision are minimized and neighboring properties will
not be adversely affected by the increased run-off after development.
      (3)   Where conditions make impractical the inclusion of drainage
facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual, unobstructed easements at
least 15 feet in width for drainage facilities shall be provided across the
property with satisfactory access to the road.
      (4)   Drainage easements shall extend from the road to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities, but in no case shall they drain to
the ocean or river.
      (5)   Where practicable, drainage easements shall center along or be
adjacent to a common property line.
      (6)   When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of the watercourse, and of
the width and construction as will be adequate for the purpose. Wherever
possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open channel
with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume of flow.
      (7)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods shall be preserved in their natural state as
drainage ways.
      (8)   Unless otherwise specified, the applicant shall be responsible for
general maintenance of easements. The city or utility companies with lines in
the easements shall have full right of access.
      (9)   All stumps, debris, trash and fallen trees within the easement
right-of-way shall be cleared and removed by the subdivider.
   (I)   Sanitary sewer. A sanitary sewage disposal system shall be designed
and constructed by the subdivider consistent with this ZDO and all other city
requirements.
   (J)   Water supply.
      (1)   A potable water system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider consistent with this ZDO and all other city requirements.
      (2)   Where a public water supply is reasonably accessible, the developer
shall indicate a connection with the water supply and a water connection for
each lot of a size, length, and material specified by the Public Works
Department.
      (3)   Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions connected to a
public water system.
      (4)   Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart and
within 500 feet of any structure and shall be approved by the Fire Department.
   (K)   Utilities. 
      (1)   Adequate areas of suitable size and location shall be allocated for
utility easements.
      (2)   The location and size of the easements shall be worked out with the
public and private utilities involved, shall center along or be adjacent to a
common property line where practicable, and shall be installed underground
except where unusual circumstances prohibit the practice.
      (3)   Each cul-de-sac or dead end street shall have provisions for a 15-
foot utility easement extending along the property line to prevent dead-end
utilities.
      (4)   Unless otherwise specified, the applicant shall be responsible for
general maintenance of easements. The city or utility companies with lines in
the easements shall have full right of access.
      (5)   All stumps, debris, trash and fallen trees within the easement
right-of-way shall be cleared and removed by the subdivider.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 167.02 CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION.
   § 167.02-01 Purpose and Intent.
   Conservation subdivisions are an alternative development pattern intended to
preserve and protect open space and significant natural resources by allowing a
developer to cluster home sites around critical areas. The conservation
subdivision option shall not be used to increase the net density of a
development. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for a
conservation subdivision.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.02-02 Applicability.
   Development utilizing the conservation subdivision option shall be limited
to new developments of three or more acres located within the RSF District.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.02-03 Procedure.
   Development utilizing the conservation subdivision option shall be approved
in accordance with §
162.03-07(D), Subdivision Preliminary Plat.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.02-04 Conservation Subdivision Standards.
   A conservation subdivision shall:
   (A)   Not exceed a density of four units per developable acre of land;
   (B)   Include lots no smaller than 6,000 square feet of developable area;
   (C)   Maintain minimum lot widths of 30 feet or more;
   (D)   Include an undisturbed buffer with a minimum width of 25 feet adjacent
to all SCDES critical areas;
   (E)   Provide a minimum front and rear yard setback of ten feet;
   (F)   Provide a minimum side yard setback of five feet; and
   (G)   Reserve at least 35% of the total site acreage as open space set-
aside.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
   § 167.02-05 Open Space Set-Aside and Buffer Standards.
   Open space set-aside areas and buffers in conservation subdivisions shall
comply with the following standards:
   (A)   Open space set-aside design standards. Open space set-asides shall
comply with the design standards in §
166.03-05, Design Standards for Open Space Set-Asides.
   (B)   Allowable uses. The following uses shall be permitted within open
space set-asides and buffers within conservation subdivisions:
      (1)   Passive recreational uses in accordance with §
166.03-04(G)(2), Passive Recreational Uses:
      (2)   Docks;
      (3)   Water supply and septic systems; and
      (4)   Required drainage or other utility easements.
   (C)   Tree canopy retention. Except as needed for streets, public utilities,
or water supply or septic systems, removal of existing tree canopy from open
space set-aside areas or buffers is prohibited.
   (D)   Ownership requirements.
      (1)   Ownership of open space set-aside areas. The open space set-aside
area shall comply with the ownership requirements in §
166.03-05, Ownership of Open Space Set-Asides.
      (2)   Ownership of buffers, common areas, and docks. The ownership of
buffers, common areas, and docks shall comply with the standards set forth in §
166.03-05, Ownership of Open Space Set-Asides.
   (E)   Maintenance of buffers, common areas, and docks. Maintenance of
buffers, common areas, and docks shall comply with the standards set forth in §
166.03-06, Maintenance of Open Space Set-Asides, and the following standards:
      (1)   Commons areas intended for stormwater management or recreation
shall be provided with permanent access via direct frontage on a right-of-way
or easement.
      (2)   Maintenance of buffers and common areas intended for conservation
shall be limited to removal of litter, dead tree and plant materials, and
brush.
      (3)   A community dock, where provided, shall be located adjacent to
common area on high ground. The common area shall be directly adjacent to a
right-of-way serving the community. Residents within the community shall be
able to directly access the community dock on foot.
      (4)   All buffers, common areas, and community docks shall be maintained
so that their use and value are not diminished or destroyed.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 167.03 PERFORMANCE AGREEMENTS.
   § 167.03-01 General.
   Improvement guarantees, posted in accordance with the requirements of this
subsection, shall be required for the replacement of trees and required
vegetation.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.03-02 Bonding Prohibited.
   No bonding of the installation of required public improvements shall be
accepted.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.03-03 Performance Guarantees.
   (A)   Form of performance guarantee. Where required, the owner/developer
shall furnish a performance guarantee in any of the following acceptable forms:
      (1)   Cash deposit with the city;
      (2)   Certified check from a South Carolina lender based upon a cash
deposit, in a form acceptable to the City Attorney;
      (3)   Irrevocable letter of credit from a South Carolina banking
institution in a form acceptable to the City Attorney; or
      (4)   Any other financial security found acceptable by the City Attorney.
Performance bonds will not be accepted.
   (B)   Amount of performance guarantees.
        (1)   Performance guarantees required for replacement vegetation shall
equal 125% of the cost of the materials and labor associated with installation.
      (2)   Whenever guarantees are renewed, the city may require the guarantee
be updated based on a standard engineering cost index to reflect increases in
construction costs over time.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 167.03-04 Forfeiture of Security.
   (A)   Notice of failure to install or complete improvements. If a person
fails to properly install, repair, and/or maintain all required vegetation
within the time-frames established by this section, the city shall give 30 days
written notice by certified mail, after which time the city may draw on the
security and use the funds to purchase and install required vegetation.
   (B)   City completion of improvements. After completing the required public
improvements, the city shall provide a complete accounting of the expenditures
to the person with an interest in the security and, as applicable, refund all
unused security deposited, without interest.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 168: NONCONFORMITIES
Section
   
168.01   General applicability
      
168.01-01   Purpose and scope
      
168.01-02   Authority to continue
      
168.01-03   Determination of nonconformity status
      
168.01-04   Minor repairs and normal maintenance
      
168.01-05   Change of tenancy or ownership
      
168.01-06   Exception due to variance permit or administrative adjustment
   
168.02   Nonconforming uses
      
168.02-01   Change of use
      
168.02-02   Discontinuance or abandonment
      
168.02-03   Repair
      
168.02-04   Damage or destruction
      
168.02-05   Reconstruction after casualty damage
      
168.02-06   Accessory uses
      
168.02-07   Substantial improvement
   
168.03   Nonconforming structures
      
168.03-01   Relationship with nonconforming uses
      
168.03-02   Continuation
      
168.03-03   Enlargement
      
168.03-04   Demolition and rebuilding
      
168.03-05   Reconstruction after damage
      
168.03-06   Relocation
   
168.04   Nonconforming lots of record
      
168.04-01   Lots residential and nonresidential districts
      
168.04-02   Change of nonconforming lot
   
168.05   Nonconforming signs
§ 168.01 GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   § 168.01-01 Purpose and Scope.
   (A)   Within the provisions established by this ZDO, there exist uses of
land, structures, lots and signs that were lawfully established before this ZDO
was adopted or amended, that now do not conform to the terms and requirements
of this ZDO. The purpose and intent of this chapter is to regulate and limit
the continued existence of those uses, standards, lots, and signs that do not
conform to the provisions of this ZDO or any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Except where otherwise specified, it is the intent of this ZDO to
permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival except under the limited circumstances established in
this chapter. The provisions of this chapter are designed to curtail
substantial improvement of nonconformities to preserve the integrity of this
ZDO.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter or code of ordinances shall be interpreted to
allow the creation of a new use or structure that is nonconforming with the
regulations contained herein unless such nonconformity is explicitly allowed.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 21-13, passed 1-14-14; Am. Ord. 035-21,
passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.01-02 Authority to Continue.
   Nonconformities are allowed to continue in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.01-03 Determination of Nonconformity Status.
   In all cases, the burden of establishing that a nonconformity lawfully
exists shall be on the owner of the land on which the purported nonconformity
is located.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.01-04 Minor Repairs and Normal Maintenance.
   Minor repairs and normal maintenance that are required to keep nonconforming
uses, structures, and signs in a safe condition are permitted, provided that
the minor repair or maintenance does not extend, expand, or enlarge a
nonconforming use, structure, or sign. For the purposes of this section, MINOR
REPAIR OR NORMAL MAINTENANCE shall mean:
   (A)   Maintenance of safe condition. Repairs that are necessary to maintain
a nonconforming use, structure, or sign in a safe condition;
   (B)   Correction of damage or deterioration. Repairs that are necessary to
correct any damage or deterioration to the structural soundness or interior
appearance of a building or structure without altering the building or
structure;
   (C)   Maintenance of land for safety. Maintenance of land areas to protect
against health hazards and promote the safety of surrounding land uses; and
   (D)   Limited sign repairs and maintenance. Repairs and maintenance of
nonconforming signs, such as repainting and electrical repairs, whose costs do
not exceed 50% of the replacement cost of the sign.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.01-05 Change of Tenancy or Ownership.
   Changes of tenancy, ownership, or management of an existing nonconformity
are permitted, and in such cases the nonconforming situation shall continue to
be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.01-06 Exception Due to Variance Permit or Administrative Adjustment.
   The requirements of this chapter do not apply, however, to any development
standard or feature that is the subject of an approved variance permit or
administrative adjustment. Where a variance permit or administrative adjustment
has been granted for a development standard or feature that does not otherwise
conform to the requirements of this ZDO, that development standard or feature
shall be deemed conforming.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 168.02 NONCONFORMING USES.
   § 168.02-01 Change of Use.
   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any other nonconforming use, but
may be converted to a conforming use.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.02-02 Discontinuance or Abandonment.
   Except as allowed by §
168.02-05, Reconstruction After Casualty Damage, a nonconforming use shall not
be re-established after vacancy, abandonment, or discontinuance for any 12
consecutive months.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.02-03 Repair.
   Ordinary repairs or replacement of non-load-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring,
or plumbing, is allowable provided the size or impact of the nonconforming use
is not increased, and providing a new nonconforming use is not created. Nothing
in this ZDO shall be construed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any building or part of a building declared to be unsafe by
any official charged with protecting the public safety.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.02-04 Damage or Destruction.
   Except as allowed by §
168.02-05, reconstruction after damage of any origin, any nonconforming use
that is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than 50% of
its pre-damaged market value, shall only be restored in a manner that conforms
with this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 21-13, passed 1-14-14; Am. Ord. 05-14,
passed 3-11-14; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.02-05 Reconstruction After Casualty Damage.
   (A)   In the event a structure housing a nonconforming use in the RMF, DC,
or IC Districts is damaged to an extent up to or greater than 50% of its
assessed value at the time of damage through an Act of God or other natural
catastrophic event, such use may be reconstructed to its state immediately
prior to the Act of God or other natural catastrophic event resulting in its
damage, provided that a new nonconforming use is not created. Reconstruction
shall be initiated within 12 months of the damage, and shall be in accordance
with all applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   In the event a structure housing a nonconforming multi-family use in
the RTF District is damaged to an extent up to or greater than 50% of its
assessed value at the time of damage through an Act of God or other natural
catastrophic event, such use may be reconstructed to its state immediately
prior to the Act of God or other catastrophic event resulting in its damage,
provided that a new nonconforming use is not created. Reconstruction shall be
initiated within 24 months of the damage, and shall be in accordance with all
applicable state and federal laws.
   (C)   In restoring such structures, changes are permitted that reduce the
degree or extent of the nonconforming use.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 007-22,
passed 6-14-22)
   § 168.02-06 Accessory Uses.
   Once a nonconforming principal use is discontinued, all associated accessory
uses shall cease operations within 30 days.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.02-07 Substantial Improvement.
   In the case of substantial improvement, a nonconforming use must be brought
into compliance with all current applicable zoning regulations. This section
shall not apply to structures housing a nonconforming use in the RMF, DC, or IC
Districts except those structures which do not meet current flood elevation.
   (A)   Substantial improvement is defined as any combination of repairs,
reconstruction, alteration or improvements to a building, taking place during a
ten-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the building prior to the first instance of repairs,
reconstruction, alteration or improvements.
   (B)   The market value of the building must be provided by an appraiser
certified by the state prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement.
For improvements being made after damage, the market value shall be the value
of the building prior to the damage occurring.
   (C)   The value of minor repairs and normal maintenance as defined in §
168.01-04, Minor Repairs and Normal Maintenance, shall not be used in a
determination of substantial improvement.
   (D)   The ten year period shall not be waived in the event repairs,
reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a building are required as an
act of God, natural disaster or other actions beyond the control of the
property owner.
(Ord. 21-13, passed 1-14-14; Am. Ord. 08-21, passed 5-11-21; Am. Ord. 035-21,
passed 12-14-21)
§ 168.03 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   § 168.03-01 Relationship with Nonconforming Uses.
   A nonconforming principal structure containing a conforming use may only
continue in accordance with the provision of this subsection. Nonconforming
structures housing nonconforming uses may only continue in accordance with the
standards in §
168.02, Nonconforming Uses.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10) ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.03-02 Continuation.
   Normal repair and maintenance may be performed to allow the continued use of
nonconforming structures provided the repairs and maintenance do not create a
new nonconformity.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.03-03 Enlargement.
   Any enlargement, alteration, or expansion of a nonconforming structure that
increases the degree of nonconformity or creates a new nonconformity is
prohibited. (For example, a structure that has a five-foot side setback where
the ZDO requires a ten-foot side setback cannot be enlarged so as to further
encroach into the side setback.)
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.03-04 Demolition and Rebuilding.
   A nonconforming structure shall not be re-established as a nonconforming
structure after demolition, damage, or destruction, except pursuant to §
168.03-05, Reconstruction After Damage.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
   § 168.03-05 Reconstruction after Damage.
   (A)   More than 50% of pre-damaged market value. In the event a
nonconforming structure is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of
50% of its market value prior to such destruction, such structure shall not be
restored unless in conformance with the standards for the zoning district in
which it is located except that structures legally permitted prior to March 1,
2019 which are situated 15 feet or less from the SCDES critical line shall be
allowed a ten-foot setback from the SCDES critical line. The footprint of any
structure restored under this exemption may not be enlarged in such a manner
that the area of the footprint within the 15-foot setback from the SCDES
critical line or the total square footage of the structure is larger than its
pre-damaged state. Structures located in RMF, DC, IC, and RFT Districts that
are damaged by an Act of God or other catastrophic event have a limited
exception to this provision as set forth in §
168.02-05.
   (B)   Less than 50% of pre-damaged market value. Except for homes exceeding
the maximum square footage in §
166.05-03, Single- and Two-Family Residential Design Standards, a nonconforming
structure that is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to an extent of less than
50% of its market value prior to such damage or destruction, it may be restored
to its pre-damaged state provided reconstruction is initiated within 24 months
and provided the reconstruction complies with all other city ordinances as well
as all state and federal laws and does not create any new nonconformities.
   (C)   Homes exceeding maximum square footage. An existing home exceeding the
maximum square footage in §
166.05-03, Single- and Two-Family Residential Design Standards, damaged to an
extent beyond 50% of its pre-damaged market value shall be reconstructed in
accordance with the size limitations in this ZDO. A special exception permit
(See §
163.03-03) shall be required to reconstruct the home to its original square
footage.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 05-14, passed 3-11-14; Am. Ord. 14-19,
passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 007-22, passed 6-14-
22; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
   § 168.03-06 Relocation.
   A nonconforming structure shall not be moved, in whole or in part, to
another location on or off the parcel of land on which it is located, unless
upon relocation it shall conform to the standards and requirements of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 168.04 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   § 168.04-01 Lots Residential and Nonresidential Districts.
   (A)   General. Development of a single-family dwelling on the lot of record
shall comply with the other standards in
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards, to the maximum extent practicable.
   (B)   Combination of lots. If two or more lots of record or combination of
lots of record and portions of contiguous lots of record are in single
ownership on or after March 1, 2019, or on the date one or more of the lots
become nonconforming, and if all or part of one or more of these lots do not
comply with the lot area standards in
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards; and if one or more of these lots are
adjacent to either the SCDES Critical Line or the SCDES Baseline, the lots
involved shall be considered to be an individual lot for the purposes of this
ZDO, and no portion of these lots shall be used or sold which do not comply
with the lot area standards in
Chapter 165: Dimensional Standards, nor shall any division of the lots be made
that leaves remaining any lot that fails to comply with the lot area standards.
Single ownership in this section shall be defined to include any ownership
where all equitable owners of the contiguous lots are the same, even if the
deeds for the lots are held in different names. This shall include equitable
owners such as: individually named owner(s), beneficiary(ies), trusts, member
(s) of an LLC, shareholder(s) in a corporation or any other arrangement where
the equitable owner(s) of the contiguous lots is(are) the same.
   (C)   Lots in the DC and IC Districts. In addition to the ability to
construct a single-family dwelling, lawfully established nonconforming lots of
record in the DC and IC Districts may be developed with any use allowed in the
district (See
Table 164.01, Table of Allowable Uses) following approval of a special
exception permit (See §
162.03-03) by the BZA.
   (D)   Lots with no frontage on an open, public street. No lot which is
adjacent to either the SCDES Critical Line or the SCDES Baseline and does not
have frontage on an open, public street as of March 1, 2019 shall be developed
without the provision of 20 feet of access to an open, public street. The
requirement for access may be satisfied by direct frontage or platted easement.
Once developed, a 20-foot access route, clear of obstruction, must be
maintained for emergency access. Development on islands that are not accessible
by open, public street shall be exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 14-19, passed 4-9-19; Am. Ord. 24-20,
passed 12-8-20; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 011-24, passed 6-11-
24; Am. Ord. 001-25, passed 2-11-25)
   § 168.04-02 Change of Nonconforming Lot.
   As a means of reducing the nonconformity, a nonconforming lot may be
increased in area, width, or both, in accordance with the standards for a minor
subdivision, §
162.03-07(C).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10 ; Am. Ord. 035-21, passed 12-14-21)
§ 168.05 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Except for off premise signs located in the marsh in place for more than 25
years and signs in the Commercial Districts, non-conforming signs shall be
removed or altered to conform with the requirements of this ZDO prior to
January 1, 2019. Nonconforming signs in the Commercial Districts that are
substantially damaged or voluntarily removed may be replaced subject to the
following:
   (A)   Nonconforming signs in the Commercial Districts that are substantially
damaged or voluntarily removed may be replaced provided the total number of
signs after replacement does not exceed the standards in Table 166.10.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs in the Commercial Districts that are substantially
damaged or voluntarily removed may be replaced with signs exceeding the maximum
area standards of Table 166.10. However, the cumulative area of all signs after
replacement may not be greater than 80 square feet or 75% of the cumulative
area of all signs on the property prior to damage or removal, whichever is
greater.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 9-25-18; Am. Ord. 035-21,
passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 002-22, passed 5-10-22; Am. Ord. 005-23, passed 5-9-
23)
CHAPTER 169: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
169.01   Purpose
   
169.02   Compliance required
   
169.03   Violations
      
169.03-01   Violations generally
      
169.03-02   Specific violations
   
169.04   Responsible persons
   
169.05   Enforcement generally
      
169.05-01   Responsibility for enforcement
      
169.05-02   Notice of violations
      
169.05-03   Complaints regarding violations
      
169.05-04   Inspections to ensure compliance
   
169.06   Remedies and penalties
      
169.06-01   Remedies and penalties available to city
      
169.06-02   Additional remedies available for sign violations
      
169.06-03   Remedies cumulative
§ 169.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter establishes procedures through which the city seeks to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this ZDO and obtain corrections for ZDO
violations. It also sets forth the remedies and penalties that apply to
violations of this ZDO. The provisions of this chapter are intended to
encourage the voluntary correction of violations, where possible.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 169.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Compliance with all the procedures, standards, and other provisions of this
ZDO is required by all persons owning, developing, managing, using, or
occupying land or structures in Folly Beach.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 169.03 VIOLATIONS.
   § 169.03-01 Violations Generally.
   (A)   Failure to comply with ordinance or term or condition of approval
constitutes ordinance violation. Any failure to comply with a standard,
requirement, prohibition, or limitation imposed by this ZDO, or the terms or
conditions of any permit or other permit approval or authorization granted in
accordance with this ZDO shall constitute a violation of this ZDO punishable as
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Permits or permit approvals only authorize development approved.
Permits or permit approvals issued on the basis of applications approved by the
City Council, Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA), Building
Official, or other officials, authorize only the use, arrangement, location,
design, density or intensity, and development set forth in such permits or
permit approvals, and no other use, arrangement, location, design, density or
intensity, and development.
   (C)   Violations run with the land. Violations of this ZDO shall run with
the land where the violation occurred, and shall not be voided by sale or
transfer.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 169.03-02 Specific Violations.
   It shall be a violation of this ZDO to do any of the following:
   (A)   Develop land or a structure without first obtaining the appropriate
permit or permit approval.
   (B)   Develop land or a structure without complying with the terms or
conditions of the permit or permit approval required to engage in development.
   (C)   Occupy or use land or a structure in violation of the terms or
conditions of the permit or permit approval.
   (D)   Subdivide land without first obtaining the appropriate permit or
permit approvals required to engage in subdivision.
   (E)   Subdivide land without complying with the terms or conditions of the
permit or permit approval required to engage in development.
   (F)   Excavate, grade, cut, clear, pave, cover, or undertake any land
disturbing activity without first obtaining all appropriate permits and permit
approvals, and complying with their terms and conditions.
   (G)   Remove existing trees, or prune any limb greater than 6 inches
diameter at the nearest juncture, without first obtaining appropriate permits
and permit approvals, and complying with their terms and conditions.
   (H)   Install, create, erect, alter, or maintain any sign without first
obtaining the appropriate permit or permit approval.
   (I)   Fail to remove any sign installed, created, erected, or maintained in
violation of this ZDO, or for which the sign permit, §
162.03-11, has lapsed.
   (J)   Create, expand, replace, or change any nonconformity except in
compliance with this ZDO.
   (K)   Reduce or diminish the requirements or development standards below the
minimum required by this ZDO.
   (L)   Increase the intensity or density of development, except in accordance
with the standards of this ZDO.
   (M)   Through any act or omission, fail to comply with any provisions,
procedures, or standards as required by this ZDO.
   (N)   Demolish a principal structure without appropriate permits.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 25-16, passed 1-10-17)
§ 169.04 RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   Any person who violates this ZDO shall be subject to the remedies and
penalties set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 169.05 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   § 169.05-01 Responsibility for Enforcement.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions
of this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 169.05-02 Notice of Violations.
   When the Zoning Administrator finds a violation of this ZDO, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify, in writing, the person violating this ZDO. Such
notification shall indicate the nature of the violation, order the necessary
action to abate the violation, and give a deadline for correcting the
violation. If a violation is not corrected within a reasonable period of time,
as provided in the notification, Zoning Administrator shall take appropriate
action, as provided in §
169.06-01, Remedies and Penalties Available to City, to correct and abate the
violation and to ensure compliance with this ZDO.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 169.05-03 Complaints Regarding Violations.
   Whenever a violation of this ZDO occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any
person may file a complaint. Such complaint shall state fully the alleged
violation and the basis for the alleged violation, and shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator, who shall maintain a record of the complaint. The
complaint shall be investigated promptly by the Zoning Administrator as
provided in §
169.05-04, Inspections to Ensure Compliance, and action taken to abate or
correct the violation.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 169.05-04 Inspections to Ensure Compliance.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Zoning Administrator may enter
upon land or inspect any structure to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this ZDO. These inspections shall be carried out during normal business hours
unless the Zoning Administrator determines there is an emergency necessitating
inspections at another time.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
§ 169.06 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   § 169.06-01 Remedies and Penalties Available to City.
   The city may use any combination of the following enforcement actions,
remedies, and penalties to correct, stop, abate or enjoin a violation of this
ZDO:
   (A)   Citation noting violation.  The Zoning Administrator may issue a
citation to the person responsible for violating this ZDO, requiring the person
to abate the violation.
   (B)   Stop order.  The Zoning Administrator or City Attorney may issue and
serve upon a person violating this ZDO a stop order requiring that the person
to stop all actions in violation of this ZDO.
   (C)   Permit revocation. Any permit, permit approval, or other form of
authorization required under this ZDO may be revoked if the Zoning
Administrator determines that:
      (1)   There is a failure to comply with the approved permit, permit
approval, plans, specifications, or terms or conditions required under the
permit or permit approval;
      (2)   The permit or permit approval was procured by false representation;
or
      (3)   The permit or permit approval was issued in error.
Written notice of revocation shall be served upon the landowner, the
landowner's agent, applicant, or other person to whom the permit or permit
approval was issued, and such notice may be posted in a prominent location at
the place of violation. No work or construction shall proceed after service of
the revocation notice.
   (D)   Removal or demolition of illegal structures. The Zoning Administrator
may order the removal of illegal buildings or structures, including additions,
alterations, or structural changes thereto which have been made in violation of
this ZDO.
   (E)   Civil remedies. In addition to all other remedies and penalties
outlined in this chapter, the Zoning Administrator or City Attorney may
institute an action or proceeding for injunction or mandamus or other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, abate, or correct a violation of
this ZDO or to prevent the occupancy of a structure or land that is in
violation of this ZDO. Each day a person violates this ZDO shall be considered
a separate offense.
   (F)   Criminal remedies.  Any person who violates this ZDO or fails to
comply with any of its requirements is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction, may be fined in the discretion of the court, or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 169.06-02 Additional Remedies Available for Sign Violations.
   In addition to the remedies and penalties provided in §
169.06-01, Remedies and Penalties Available to City, signs that are in
violation of the provisions of this ZDO shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   Notice of violation.  
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may send notice to the sign owner, stating
the nature of the violation and granting an appropriate period of time to
correct the violation.
      (2)   Notice may be provided to the sign owner, tenant or landowner by
regular mail addressed to the last known address, or by facsimile, or both, as
is reasonable under the circumstances.
   (B)   Impoundment. The Zoning Administrator may impound the sign and send
notice stating the sign has been impounded, the reason for the impoundment, and
the process for claiming the sign. An impounded sign shall be held for ten
calendar days from the date of the notice, during which time the sign owner may
recover the sign. If the sign is not claimed within the ten-day period, the
Zoning Administrator may dispose of the sign without compensation to the sign
owner.
   (C)   Posting of violation sticker. The Zoning Administrator may post the
sign with a "violation" sticker, which shall not be removed by anyone other
than the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Damage to street signs. When existing street signs are damaged during
construction or on-site activities, the owner/developer shall be required to
replace or repair the street sign.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
   § 169.06-03 Remedies Cumulative.
   The remedies provided for violations of this ZDO, whether civil or criminal,
shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, and
may be exercised in any order.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 3-23-10)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   EASEMENTS; RELOCATIONS
      
III.   EXPANSIONS; IMPROVEMENTS
      
IV.   DESIGNATED N-1 PROPERTIES
      
V.   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      9- -73      Original corporation
–      - -73       Long Island
–      3- -81      Mariners Cay
–      - -         Little Oak Island
–      - -         Highways 171 and Marsh
–      11- -82     Little Oak Villas
–      10- -85     Highway 171
–      7- -87      West Marsh
–      11- -88     Black Island
–      3- -99      Light House
12-99    4-13-99     Annexation of the Morris Island Lighthouse
–      8-9-05      Oak Island
–      8-9-05      Peas Island
–      8-9-05      Clam Farm
–      8-9-05      Bowens Island
–      8-9-05      Toll Booth
–      8-9-05      Folly Road Properties
–      8-9-05      Riverfront
 
TABLE II: EASEMENTS; RELOCATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Relocation of 20-foot public access easement located on
15-97    9-2-97      property on West Arctic, adjacent to the Holiday Inn, TMS
                     #328-14-001
 
TABLE III: EXPANSIONS; IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
08-98    5-19-98     Amendment; expansion of sewer system
 
TABLE IV: DESIGNATED N-1 PROPERTIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
05-01    - -         011715 East Ashley, TMS# 439 16 0 62, Lot 2206
                     1717 East Ashley, TMS# 439 16 0 63, Lot 2207
                     1655 East Ashley, TMS# 435 15 0 48, Lot 2365
 
TABLE V: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Development agreement between Rivers Edge and the city for
                     a planned development district for a certain parcel of
31-01    12-17-03    property containing 6.43 acres with 2.83 acres of high
                     ground, and 3.60 acres of marshland located on the Folly
                     River and known as the Rooke property, TMS# 328-10-00-153
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
08-04    4-27-04     Renewing the cable television franchise agreement between
                     the city and US Cable
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code of Laws
References to 1995 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE OF LAWS
S.C. Section Code Section
S.C. Section                Code Section
5-5-10 et seq.              30.01
                            118.04,
5-7-30                      134.50,
                            152.01
5-7-32                      72.18
5-7-32                      72.18
5-7-90                      32.07
5-7-110                     33.002
                            134.52,
5-7-140                     134.53,
                            153.06
5-7-140(B)                  134.54
5-7-190                     32.02
5-7-210                     31.04
5-7-220                     32.04
5-7-230                     32.05
5-7-240                     36.05
5-9-10 - 5-9-30             30.01
5-9-30                      32.01,
                            32.03
5-9-40                      32.03
5-11-40                     33.001
5-15-20                     30.01
5-15-40                     30.01
5-15-50                     31.42
5-15-60                     31.42
5-15-70                     31.42
5-31-10 et seq.             53.01
5-21-50                     36.04
6-1-410                     110.11,
                            110.16
6-1-730                     38.03,
                            113.05
6-4-10 et seq.              33.010,
                            33.090
Title 6, Article 7          39.01
                            36.71,
6-5-10                      36.73,
                            36.75
6-5-15                      36.76
6-6-30                      36.75
6-9-50                      150.004
6-29-310 et seq.            33.070
6-29-710 et seq.            160.02-01
6-29-770(E)                 160.04-04,
                            164.02-02
6-29-780 et seq.            33.020
6-29-825                    33.020
6-29-915                    33.050
6-29-1340                   33.004
6-29-1360                   33.004
6-31-10 et seq.             162.04
7-13-35                     31.42
11-1-60                     36.71,
                            36.75
12-21-2720(A)(1)            Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2720(A)(2)            Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2720(A)(3)            Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-270(B)                Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2728                  Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-2746                  Ch. 110, App. A
12-21-3920 et seq.          133.02
12-23-210                   Ch. 110, App. A
12-37-3150                  117.01
12-43-220                   117.01
12-45-180                   53.24
14-25-5 et seq.             34.01
14-25-15                    32.07
14-25-25                    34.03
14-25-65                    34.07
14-25-75                    115.05,
                            116.06
15-1-30                     10.05
15-1-40                     10.05
15-1-50                     10.05
16-3-1010                   134.01
16-11-510                   132.02
16-11-520                   132.02
16-11-590                   151.03
16-11-680                   132.05
16-11-760                   72.16
16-13-30                    132.07
16-15-90 et seq.            133.03
16-15-130                   133.01
16-17-470                   133.04
16-19-10 et seq.            133.02
16-23-460                   131.03
18-7-10                     152.42
23-6-150                    130.01
23-20-10 et seq.            134.52
27-32-10(8)                 117.01
27-32-10(9)                 117.01
27-32-250(1)                117.01
27-32-10(8)                 117.01
27-32-10(9)                 117.01
27-32-250(1)                117.01
27-50-250                   117.01
30-4-10 et seq.             36.26
30-4-70                     31.22
30-4-70(a)(1)               33.003
31-15-30                    150.100
31-15-50                    150.101
31-15-60                    150.102
31-15-70                    150.104
31-15-80                    150.105
31-15-90                    150.106
31-15-120                   150.110
34-11-90                    132.06
                            110.02,
Title 38, Ch. 7             110.11,
                            110.16,
                            Ch. 110, App. A
38-7-20                     110.02
                            110.02,
Title 38, Ch. 45            110.11,
                            110.16,
                            Ch. 110, App. A
40-22-10 et seq.            162.03-07
44-53-370                   134.02
44-53-391                   134.15
47-3-410 et seq.            95.31
47-3-710 et seq.            95.15,
                            95.46
47-5-10 et seq.             95.30
47-5-60                     95.30
48-10-20                    53.02,
                            53.30
48-18-70                    53.41
Title 48, Ch. 20            53.41
Title 50                    134.50
50-21-10(A)(1)              134.51
50-21-10(A)(10              134.51
50-21-10(2)                 134.51
50-21-10(15)                134.51
50-21-10(17)                134.51
50-21-10(18)                134.51
50-21-10(19)                134.51
50-21-10(26)                134.51
50-21-10(27)                134.51
50-21-10(29)                134.51
50-21-10(30)                134.51
50-21-30(A)                 134.51
50-21-30                    134.50
50-21-30(C)(2)              134.52
50-21-30(8)                 134.52
50-21-80                    134.50,
                            134.52
50-21-200 to 5-21-270       134.50
50-21-220 to 5-21-270       134.52
50-21-230                   134.52
50-21-240                   134.52
50-21-260                   134.52
50-21-270                   134.52
56-1-10(19)                 73.02
56-2-100(A)                 73.03
56-2-100(B)                 73.03
56-2-100(D)                 73.03
56-2-100(E)                 73.03
56-2-105(B)(1)              73.03
56-2-105(B)(3)              73.03
56-2-105(C)                 73.03
56-2-110                    73.03
56-2-120(A)                 73.02
56-3-30                     70.02
56-3-1960                   72.23
Title 56, Ch. 5             70.02
56-5-10(1)                  70.02
56-5-430                    70.01
56-5-460                    70.01
56-5-710                    70.02
56-5-715                    72.15
56-5-820(A)                 73.03
56-5-1560(a)                71.03
56-5-2530(A)                72.01
56-5-2530(B)                72.01
56-5-2560                   72.05
56-5-3822                   72.07
56-5-4450                   73.03
56-5-4470                   73.03
56-5-5850                   72.11
56-5-6150                   70.02,
                            70.99
56-7-80(G)                  72.16
58-9-2200                   Ch. 110, App. A
                            110.02,
Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20  110.11,
                            110.16
Title 61                    111.01
Title 61                    111.01
61-62.2(I)(B)               90.03
61-62.2(I)(C)               90.03
61-62.2(I)(E)               90.03
61-2-10 - 61-10-290         111.01
72-300 et seq.              53.01
72-301                      53.02,
                            53.30
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1995 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1-1-1             30.01
1-1-2             11.01
1-2-1             31.01
1-2-2             31.02
1-2-3             31.02
1-2-4             31.03
1-2-5             31.04
1-2-6             31.04
1-2-7             31.05
1-2-8             31.05
1-2-9             32.01
1-2-10            32.02
1-4-3             32.03
1-4-4             32.04
1-4-5             32.05
1-5-1             36.01
1-5-2             36.02
1-5-3             36.03
1-5-4             36.04
1-5-5             36.05
1-5-12            36.17
1-5-15            36.19
1-6-1             34.01
1-6-2             34.02
1-6-3             34.03
1-6-4             34.04
1-6-5             34.05
1-6-6             34.07
1-7-1             31.40
1-7-2             31.41
1-7-3             31.42
1-7-4             31.43
1-7-5             31.44
2-3-1             35.01
2-3-2             35.02
2-3-3             35.03
2-3-4             35.04
3-1-1             91.01
3-1-2             91.02
3-1-3             91.03
3-1-4             91.04
3-2-1             92.01
4-1-1             51.001
4-1-2             51.002
4-1-3             51.003
4-1-4             51.004
4-1-5             51.005
4-1-6             51.006
4-1-7             51.007
4-1-8             51.008
4-1-9             51.009
4-1-10            51.010
4-1-21            51.025
4-1-22            51.026
4-1-23            51.027
4-1-24            51.028
4-1-25            51.029
4-1-26            51.030
4-1-27            51.031
4-1-28            51.032
4-1-29            51.033
4-1-30            51.034
4-1-41            51.050
4-1-42            51.051
4-1-43            51.052
4-1-44            51.053
4-1-45            51.054
4-1-46            51.055
4-1-47            51.056
4-1-48            51.057
4-1-49            51.058
4-1-50            51.059
4-1-61            51.075
4-1-62            51.076
4-1-63            51.077
4-1-64            51.078
4-1-65            51.079
4-1-66            51.080
4-1-67            51.081
4-1-68            51.082
4-1-69            51.083
4-1-70            51.084
4-2-1             52.001
4-2-11            52.015
4-2-12            52.016
4-2-13            52.017
4-2-21            52.018
4-2-22            52.019
4-2-23            52.020
4-2-24            52.021
4-2-25            52.022
4-2-26            52.023
4-2-27            52.024
4-2-28            52.025
4-2-29            52.026
4-2-30            52.027
4-2-31            52.028
4-2-32            52.029
4-2-33            52.030
4-2-41            52.045
4-2-42            52.046
4-2-43            52.047
4-2-44            52.048
4-2-45            52.049
4-2-46            52.050
4-2-47            52.051
4-2-48            52.052
4-2-49            52.053
4-2-50            52.054
4-2-51            52.055
4-2-52            52.056
4-2-53            52.057
4-2-54            52.058
4-2-55            52.059
4-2-56            52.060
4-2-57            52.061
4-2-61            52.075
4-2-62            52.076
4-2-63            52.077
4-2-64            52.078
4-2-65            52.079
4-2-66            52.080
4-2-67            52.081
4-2-68            52.082
4-2-81            52.095
4-2-82            52.096
4-2-83            52.097
4-2-84            52.098
4-2-85            52.099
4-2-86            52.100
4-2-87            52.101
4-2-88            52.102
4-2-89            52.103
4-2-101           52.115
4-2-102           52.116
4-2-103           52.117
4-2-104           52.118
4-2-111           52.999
4-2-112           52.999
4-2-113           52.999
4-2-114           52.999
4-3-2             54.02
5-3-1             150.120
5-3-2             150.121
5-3-11            150.001
5-3-15            150.006
5-3-16            150.007
5-3-17            150.008
5-3-18            150.009
5-3-19            151.20
5-3-20            151.21
5-3-21            151.22
5-3-32            150.026
5-3-33            150.027
5-3-34            150.028
5-3-35            150.029
5-3-36            150.030
5-3-37            150.031
5-3-38            150.032
5-3-39            150.033
5-3-40            150.034
5-3-41            150.035
5-3-42            150.036
5-3-43            150.037
5-3-45            150.038
5-3-46            150.039
5-3-47            150.040
5-3-48            150.041
5-3-49            150.042
5-3-50            150.043
5-3-51            150.044
5-3-52            150.045
5-3-72            150.071
5-3-82            150.085
5-4-1             152.01
5-4-2             152.02
5-4-3             152.03
5-4-4             152.04
5-4-5             152.05
5-4-6             152.06
5-4-7             152.07
5-4-8             152.40
5-4-9             152.08
5-4-10            152.09
5-4-11            152.10
5-4-12            152.11
5-4-13            152.99
5-4-14            150.120
5-4-15            152.41
5-4-16            150.120
5-4-17            152.42
5-4-18            152.25
5-4-19            152.26
5-4-21            152.28
5-4-22            152.29
5-8-27            150.122
5-10-1            151.35
5-10-2            151.36
5-10-3            151.37
5-10-4            151.38
6-1-1             94.01
6-1-2             94.02
6-1-3             94.03
6-1-4             94.04
6-3-1             95.01
6-3-2             95.02
6-3-3             95.02
6-3-4             95.03
6-3-5             95.04
6-3-6             95.05
6-3-8             95.07
6-3-9             95.09
6-3-10            95.08
6-3-11            95.10
6-3-12            95.45
6-3-13            95.11
6-3-14            95.30
6-3-15            95.31
6-3-16            95.33
6-3-17            95.32
6-3-18            95.12
6-3-19            95.13
6-3-20            95.14
6-3-21            95.15
6-3-22            95.16
6-3-23            95.46
6-3-24            95.47
6-3-25            95.17
6-3-26            95.48
6-3-27            95.18
7-1-1             110.01
7-2-2             111.02
7-2-3             111.03
7-2-4             111.04
7-2-5             111.05
7-2-6             111.06
7-2-7             111.06
7-3-1             151.05
7-3-2             151.06
7-3-3             151.07
7-3-4             151.08
8-2-2             151.01
9-1-1             130.01
9-2-1             131.01
9-2-2             131.02
9-2-3             131.03
9-2-4             131.04
9-2-5             131.05
9-2-6             131.06
9-2-8             131.02
9-2-9             131.07
9-2-21            131.20
9-2-22            131.21
9-2-23            131.22
9-3-1             132.01
9-3-2             132.02
9-3-3             132.03
9-3-4             132.04
9-3-5             132.05
9-3-6             151.02
9-3-7             151.03
9-3-8             132.06
9-3-9             132.07
9-3-10            132.08
9-3-11            132.09
9-4-1             133.01
9-4-2             133.02
9-4-3             133.03
9-4-4             133.04
9-5-1             134.01
9-5-2             151.04
9-5-3             134.02
9-5-4             134.03
9-5-11            134.15
9-5-12            134.16
9-5-13            134.17
9-5-14            134.18
9-5-15            134.19
9-5-16            134.19
9-5-17            134.20
9-5-18            134.21
9-5-19            134.22
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.          Date Passed Code Section
–               - -         T.S.O. I
–               - -         T.S.O. I
–               - -73       T.S.O. I
–               9- -73      T.S.O. I
78-5              4-4-78      31.04
78-8              7-18-78     151.20
                              132.01,
–               11-2-79     133.01,
                              151.03
79-9              12-18-79    36.01
79-10             12-18-79    36.02
80-4              4-15-80     150.009
80-14             11-4-80     36.17,
                              36.19
–               3- -81      T.S.O. I
81-18             11-3-81     31.43
                              51.001 -
                              51.009,
                              51.025 -
82-1              1-5-82      51.034,
                              51.050 -
                              51.059,
                              51.075 -
                              51.084
82-5              5-4-82      134.15 -
                              134.22
82-7              5-18-82     132.06
82-12             7-27-82     131.20 -
                              131.22
–               11- -82     T.S.O. I
83-10             8-2-83      151.21 -
                              151.22
84-5              3-6-84      51.001,
                              51.058
84-16             8-8-84      31.44
84-13             10-16-84    52.077,
                              52.080
84-22             12-18-84    151.08
84-31             12-18-84    36.03
85-3              2-19-85     150.085
85-17             8-20-85     51.010
85-18             8-20-85     52.077
–               10- -85     T.S.O. I
85-28             10-15-85    150.071
85-29             10-15-85    51.010
85-24             12-3-85     150.121
86-6              3-4-86      52.060
86-7              3-4-86      52.082
86-12             3-18-86     134.03
86-19             6-17-86     52.061
86-37             11-18-86    36.17,
                              36.19
86-45             12-16-86    52.080
–               7- -87      T.S.O. I
88-6              3-1-88      52.077
–               11- -88     T.S.O. I
88-19             12-20-88    131.05
                              95.01 -
                              95.05,
                              95.07 -
89-2              11-17-89    95.17,
                              95.30 -
                              95.33,
                              95.45 -
                              95.48
89-18             12-19-89    31.44
8-92              4-21-92     151.45 -
                              151.49
5-93              6-1-93      95.18
2-95              4-4-95      151.05
11-95             11-21-95    151.11
12-96             8-6-96      51.011
21-96             12-3-96     150.001
23-96             - - 96      36.02
05-97             4-1-97      152.25
                              51.001,
10-97             7-1-97      51.005,
                              52.079
11-97             7-1-97      151.45 -
                              151.49
15-97             9-2-97      T.S.O. II
17-97             - - 97      150.007
18-97             - - 97      152.12
                              113.01 -
2-98              2-3-98      113.07,
                              113.99
20-97             2-3-98      152.05
03-98             2-17-98     151.07
04-98             - -98       31.02
06-98             3-17-98     31.02
08-98             5-19-98     T.S.O. III
15-98             7-7-98      37.01
19-98             9-1-98      52.081
28-98             - - 98      151.24
04-99             2-2-99      133.02
02-99             2-6-99      150.046
06-99             2-16-99     36.17,
                              36.19
                              95.01 -
                              95.05,
                              95.07 -
07-99             2-16-99     95.17,
                              95.30 -
                              95.33,
                              95.45 -
                              95.48
–               3- -99      T.S.O. I
09-99             3-9-99      36.17,
                              36.19
12-99             4-13-99     T.S.O. I
–               5-11-99     152.05
20-99             6- -99      111.06
21-99             6- -99      131.07
18-99             7-13-99     151.45 -
                              151.49
24-99             9-14-99     152.25
29-99             2-8-00      52.104
01-00             2-22-00     152.25
14-00             7-11-00     52.104
16-00             - - 00      52.079
17-00             - -00       51.059
18-00             - -         51.005
19-00             - - 00      52.081
20-00             9-26-00     52.001
21-00             9-26-00     51.001
22-00             11-28-00    52.079
23-00             - - 00      51.060
01-01             2-27-01     51.059
05-01             - -01       T.S.O. IV
19-01             9-18-01     52.001
24-01             1-8-02      Adopting Ordinance
02-02             3- -02      36.04
                              95.01,
                              95.07,
                              95.09 -
                              95.13,
03-02             3-26-02     95.17,
                              95.30 -
                              95.33,
                              95.45,
                              95.46,
                              95.48
05-02             6-25-02     52.081
06-02             5-28-02     132.10
                              36.15 -
12-02             8-27-02     36.20,
                              36.99
13-02             8-27-02     152.26
02-03             2-11-03     52.077, 54.08
06-03             4-22-03     52.104
                              38.01 -
08-03             5-27-03     38.04,
                              38.99
14-03             7-29-03     95.04
18-03             8-26-03     51.095 -
                              51.098
21-03             8-26-03     31.03
                              54.01 -
29-03             10-14-03    54.07,
                              54.99
30-03             10-14-03    51.054
31-03             12-17-03    T.S.O. V
07-04             4-20-04     133.05
08-04             4-27-04     T.S.O. VI
11-04             6-22-04     150.007
16-04             9-14-04     36.16 -
                              36.18
18-04             9-29-04     111.01,
                              111.03
19-04             9-28-04     38.03
26-04             10-26-04    152.04,
                              152.05
28-04             10-26-04    54.06
29-04             10-26-04    152.07
                              134.30 -
33-04             5-22-05     134.41,
                              134.99
01-05             1-25-05     150.007
05-05             2-8-05      150.001
06-05             3-8-05      150.007
14-05             6-28-05     51.011
44-05             7-26-05     151.12
–               8-9-05      T.S.O. I
52-05             9-27-05     150.001
53-05             8-23-05     155.001
05-06             1-24-06     151.25
09-06             3-14-06     31.42
28-06             7-25-06     150.007
30-06             7-25-06     151.11
                              110.01 -
                              110.03,
34-06             9-26-06     110.05 -
                              110.15,
                              110.18,
                              110.99
44-06             12-12-06    150.001
04-07             6-26-07     51.005
05-07             6-26-07     52.079
14-07             6-26-07     150.011
                              152.04,
15-07             6-26-07     152.05,
                              152.07,
                              152.10
16-07             6-26-07     36.06
                              53.01 -
21-07             9-25-07     53.12,
                              53.99
22-07             9-25-07     53.20 -
                              53.24
                              53.30 -
23-07             9-25-07     53.64,
                              53.99
04-08             3-11-08     150.007
05-08             3-11-08     36.07
08-08             8-26-08     151.05
12-08             6-24-08     38.03
14-08             7-22-08     151.04
19-08             7-22-08     111.03
24-08             8-26-08     151.13,
                              151.14
26-08             9-23-08     31.15 -
                              31.30
27-08             9-23-08     36.04
                              134.30 -
29-08             12-30-08    134.41,
                              134.99
31-08             12-30-08    151.46 -
                              151.49
01-09             2-24-09     111.06
                              93.01,
02-09             2-24-09     93.02,
                              93.99
04-09             2-24-09     36.16
                              115.01,
10-09             8-25-09     115.02,
                              115.05,
                              115.06
                              116.01,
12-09             8-25-09     116.02,
                              116.05 -
                              116.09
18-09             9-22-09     131.05
19-09             11-10-09    150.007
01-10, as amended 2-23-10     51.095
                              160.01 -
                              160.10,
                              161.01,
                              161.02,
                              162.01-
                              162.04,
                              163.01 -
                              163.05,
                              164.01 -
05-10             3-23-10     164.05,
                              165.01,
                              165.02,
                              166.01 -
                              166.12,
                              167.01 -
                              167.03,
                              168.01 -
                              168.05,
                              169.01 -
                              169.06
                              150.001 -
11-10             6-22-10     150.004,
                              150.039
19-10             9-28-10     116.01
20-10             9-28-10     166.02
                              93.01,
21-10             9-28-10     93.02,
                              93.99
                              32.04,
23-10, as amended 9-28-10     32.06,
                              32.07,
                              34.02
24-10, as amended 10-26-10    151.11
01-11             2-8-11      31.21
06-11             3-22-11     150.007
15-11             4-26-11     31.17
16-11             5-24-11     95.08
20-11             6-14-11     95.08
23-11             7-12-11     111.04,
                              151.08
25-11             9-27-11     94.03,
                              94.04
30-11             12-13-11    38.03
33-11             12-13-11    113.05
34-11             12-13-11    152.26
35-11             12-13-11    152.28,
                              162.03-07
36-11             12-13-11    152.26
38-11             12-13-11    152.05,
                              152.26
32-11             1-10-12     52.081
37-11             1-10-12     152.05
03-12             2-21-12     164.02-04
06-12             3-13-12     96.01 -
                              96.07
11-12             4-24-12     151.05
14-12, as amended 6-26-12     50.01 -
                              50.10
19-12             7-10-12     95.08
24-12             9-11-12     111.04
25-12             3-12-12     165.01-02
                              70.01 -
                              70.06,
                              70.99,
                              71.01 -
                              71.05,
27-12, as amended 10-23-12    72.01 -
                              72.16,
                              72.18 -
                              72.20,
                              72.22,
                              73.01 -
                              73.06
28-12             10-9-12     166.06-11
29-12             3-12-13     166.01
34-12             3-12-13     164.01-01,
                              164.03-03
01-13             3-12-13     166.06-11
                              164.01-01,
03-13, as amended 4-9-13      164.02-04,
                              164.03-03,
                              165.01-02
05-13             4-2-13      38.03
06-13             4-2-13      113.05
10-13             4-9-13      132.09
13-13, as amended 5-28-13     72.20,
                              72.22
18-13             7-23-13     150.007
19-13, as amended 12-10-13    166.01-03
20-13             8-13-13     150.002 ,
                              150.004
                              168.01-01 ,
21-13, as amended 1-14-14     168.02-04 ,
                              168.02-07
22-13, as amended 1-14-14     152.05
23-13             10-22-13    31.15 ,
                              31.16
25-13             12-10-13    31.42
                              153.01  -
26-13, as amended 2-25-14     153.09 ,
                              153.11  -
                              153.13
                              162.03-12 ,
27-13, as amended 2-25-14     164.05-02 ,
                              164.05-05 ,
                              164.05-06
03-14             2-11-14     52.104
04-14             3-11-14     163.05-02
05-14             3-11-14     168.02-04,
                              168.03-05
09-14             11-11-14    90.01 -
                              90.05
10-14             6-10-14     95.08
12-14             7-8-14      151.39
18-14             9-9-14      113.04,
                              113.05
19-14             9-9-14      38.03
20-14, as amended 11-11-14    153.06
23-14, as amended 11-11-14    166.06-11
24-14             11-11-14    36.08
25-14, as amended 1-13-15     73.01 -
                              73.04
27-14, as amended 1-13-15     31.17,
                              31.21
01-15             3-10-15     162.03-15
04-15             6-9-15      38.03
05-15             6-9-15      113.03,
                              113.05
07-15, as amended 7-14-15     131.30 -
                              131.35
11-15             7-14-15     51.005
12-15             7-14-15     52.079
13-15             7-14-15     51.059
15-15             8-11-15     111.04
                              72.01,
18-15             10-13-15    72.17,
                              72.23
                              51.029,
                              51.050 -
21-15             11-10-15    51.052,
                              51.054,
                              51.060
22-15             11-10-15    52.081
23-15             12-8-15     151.11,
                              151.14
29-15             1-12-16     153.06
02-16             2-9-16      110.08
                              151.04,
03-16             3-8-16      151.05,
                              151.07
04-16             3-8-16      31.02
07-16             5-10-16     166.06-02
10-16             5-10-16     31.03
17-16             7-12-16     153.06
                              110.01,
                              110.02,
18-16             7-12-16     110.14,
                              110.15,
                              110.18
19-16             7-12-16     53.20 -
                              53.24
20-16             7-12-16     150.002,
                              150.004
21-16             8-9-16      35.01 -
                              35.05
                              152.05,
                              152.25,
22-16             9-13-16     152.26,
                              152.41,
                              152.42
23-16             10-18-16    72.02
24-16             8-9-16      131.08
                              162.03-10,
25-16             1-10-17     166.01-02 -
                              166.01-05 
                              169.03-02
26-16             1-10-17     163.02-02,
                              163.03-02
27-16             5-9-17      164.04-04
28-16             9-13-16     52.081
                              112.01 -
29-16             9-13-16     112.05,
                              112.99
30-16             9-13-16     33.085 -
                              33.091
31-16             10-18-16    151.08
32-16             10-18-16    33.142
33-16             10-18-16    38.03
34-16             11-8-16     150.121
35-16             12-13-16    152.05,
                              152.26
37-16             1-10-17     150.120
                              72.01,
                              72.02,
38-16             2-14-17     72.08,
                              72.11,
                              72.12
01-17             2-14-17     33.170
02-17             4-11-17     163.05-02,
                              166.08-04
05-17             3-14-17     39.01
07-17             6-13-17     153.06
08-17             4-11-17     153.06
09-17             7-11-17     163.02-02,
                              163.03-02
10-17             6-13-17     72.08,
                              72.17
11-17             5-9-17      51.002
12-17             5-9-17      52.077
                              36.01 -
                              36.08,
                              36.15 -
14-17             5-9-17      36.27,
                              36.40,
                              36.50,
                              36.60,
                              36.99
                              38.01 -
20-17             7-11-17     38.04,
                              38.99
                              152.01,
                              152.05,
21-17             7-11-17     152.25,
                              152.26,
                              152.41
22-17             8-8-17      153.06
23-17             8-8-17      73.01 -
                              73.06
                              33.001 -
                              33.004,
                              33.010,
                              33.020,
                              33.030,
25-17             9-26-17     33.040,
                              33.050,
                              33.060,
                              33.070,
                              33.080,
                              33.090,
                              33.100
                              110.05,
                              110.14,
                              110.15,
                              117.01 -
                              117.03,
26-17             1-9-18      131.31,
                              163.02-02,
                              163.03-02,
                              164.01,
                              164.02-02,
                              164.02-04,
                              164.03-01
27-17             11-14-17    166.06-02
28-17             10-10-17    71.01 -
                              71.05
29-17             10-10-17    156.06
30-17             10-10-17    164.03-03
31-17             12-12-17    151.60 -
                              151.65
01-18             2-13-18     50.04
                              110.11,
02-18             3-13-18     110.14,
                              110.15
03-18             4-24-18     150.010
                              161.02,
                              162.03-11,
04-18             9-25-18     166.08-01 -
                              166.08-07,
                              168.05
09-18             7-10-18     40.01 -
                              40.05
                              115.02,
10-18             9-25-18     115.05,
                              115.06,
                              116.05
                              161.02,
11-18             11-13-18    163.03-01,
                              164.02-04
12-18             12-4-18     166.06-02
                              161.02,
13-18             12-4-18     164.02-04,
                              164.03-03
14-18             2-11-19     150.007
17-18             1-8-19      91.03
01-19             4-9-19      163.03-02,
                              164.01-01
                              163.02-02,
02-19             4-9-19   165.01-02,
                              166.04-03
03-19             4-9-19      165.01-02,
                              165.02-03
04-19             4-9-19      166.04-01
05-19             4-9-19      161.02,
                              166.04-03
06-19          4-9-19      166.10-01,
                              166.10-04
07-19             2-11-19     151.25
                              152.05,
08-19             2-11-19     152.25,
                              152.26
09-19             2-11-19     151.24
11-19          4-9-19      55.01 -
                              55.08
12-19             2-11-19     150.120
13-19             2-11-19     150.005,
                              150.007
                              168.03-05,
14-19             4-9-19      168.04,
                              168.04-01
15-19             6-11-19     73.01 -
                              73.06
16-19             4-9-19      165.01-02,
                              166.04-04
21-19             6-11-19     151.09
27-19             9-10-19     33.010,
                              33.030
28-19             9-10-19     161.02,
                              164.02-04
                              118.01 -
29-19             9-10-19     118.04,
                              118.99
30-19             10-8-19     111.04
32-19             11-12-19    117.02
                              150.100 -
35-19             1-14-20     150.110,
                              150.122
02-20             3-10-20     95.02
10-20             6-23-20     72.11,
                              72.17
                              150.005,
13-20             9-8-20      150.085,
                              150.086,
                              150.090
14-20             9-8-20      10.98
15-20             12-8-20     163.05-02
19-20             9-22-20     95.09
20-20             9-22-20     73.05,
                              73.06
                              134.50,
                              134.52,
22-20             10-13-20    134.54,
                              134.58,
                              134.99
23-20             11-10-20    95.09
24-20             12-8-20     168.04-01
                              152.05,
                              152.07,
25-20             12-8-20     152.26,
                              152.29,
                              152.41
26-20             12-8-20     73.06
27-20             1-12-21     95.07,
                              95.09
04-21             1-22-21     152.25
05-21             3-10-21     165.02-01
07-21             3-10-21     151.15
08-21             5-11-21     168.02-07
09-21             4-13-21     118.03
                              152.05,
10-21             5-11-21     152.25,
                              152.26,
                              152.29
                              161.02,
                              162.03-08,
                              163.03-02,
11-21             5-11-21     163.05-02,
                              164.03-01,
                              165.01-02,
                              165.02-03,
                              166.05-04
14-21             5-11-21     73.05
16-21             6-8-21      36.70 -
                              36.82
                              164.04-02,
022-21            9-14-21     164.05-06,
                              166.05-03 -
                              166.05-05
023-21            9-14-21     164.03-03
024-21            9-14-21     164.03-03
25-21             8-10-21     72.09
26-21             8-10-21     111.01 -
                              111.06
                              162.03-10,
029-21            12-14-21    166.01-01 -
                              166.01-04
030-21            11-9-21     72.20
031-21            10-19-21    72.17,
                              72.24
033-21            11-9-21     117.02
034-21            12-14-21    166.05-02 -
                              166.05-05
                              168.01-01 -
                              168.01-06,
                              168.02-01 -
                              168.02-07,
035-21            12-14-21    168.03-01 -
                              168.03-06,
                              168.04-01,
                              168.04-02,
                              168.05
                              110.01 -
                              110.19,
36-21             12-14-21    110.99,
                              Ch. 110, App. A,
                              Ch. 110, App. B
037-21            12-14-21    33.003
                              111.04,
001-22            2-8-22      153.04,
                              153.06 -
                              153.08
004-22            3-8-22      153.01 -
                              153.06
002-22            5-10-22     168.05
003-22            5-10-22     164.03-03
006-22            5-10-22     33.003
007-22            6-14-22     168.02-05,
                              168.03-05
009-22            6-14-22     165.01-02
012-22            6-14-22     163.05-01,
                              163.05-03
015-22            6-14-22     166.13
016-22            5-10-22     153.06
039-21            5-10-22     161.02,
                              166.05-03
024-22            8-9-22      72.24
011-22            9-13-22     164.01,
                              165.01-02
027-22            9-13-22     117.01 -
                              117.03
029-22            9-13-22     151.50
030-22            9-13-22     131.35
033-22            - -         117.01,
                              117.02
001-23            3-14-23     113.05
003-23            4-11-23     117.01,
                              117.02
004-23            4-11-23     110.14 -
                              110.16
005-23            5-9-23      168.05
                              153.03,
006-23            4-11-23     153.04,
                              153.06
007-23            4-11-23     151.45
002-23            5-9-23      163.05-03
012-23            6-13-23     31.42 -
                              31.44
013-23            6-13-23     36.06
018-23            9-12-23     36.03,
                              36.08
19-23             11-28-23    72.20
                              110.19,
020-23            11-28-23    Ch. 110, App. A,
                              Ch. 110, App. B
021-23            1-10-24     131.02
                              115.01,
022-23            1-10-24     115.02,
                              115.05,
                              115.06
001-24            2-20-24     117.01 -
                              117.03
002-24            3-12-24     131.33
                              134.50 -
005-24            3-12-24     134.54,
                              134.58,
                              134.99
006-24            3-12-24     34.07
003-24            4-9-24      165.01-02
004-24            4-9-24      165.01-02
011-24            6-11-24     168.04-01
013-24            6-11-24     163.01-01
014-24            6-11-24     162.03-04
                              112.02,
015-24            6-11-24     112.04,
                              112.05,
                              112.99
020-24            8-13-24     153.06
025-24            11-12-24    52.028
026-24            12-10-24    151.45, 145.46 -
                              151.49
027-24            12-10-24    51.002
028-24            - -24       131.33
030-24            - -24       117.01 -
                              117.04
007-24            1-14-25     166.01-03
023-24            1-14-25     166.04-03
024-24            1-14-25     164.04-02
                              51.095,
                              51.098,
                              55.03,
                              55.05 -
                              55.07,
                              151.24 -
                              151.25,
                              150.120,
                              152.25,
                              161.02,
001-25            2-11-25     162.03-07,
                              162.03-08,
                              163.05-02,
                              164.03-01,
                              165.01,
                              165.02-01,
                              166.04-03,
                              166.04-04,
                              167.02-04,
                              168.03-05,
                              168.04-01
                              161.02,
029-24            3-11-25     166.05-03,
                              166.06-11
003-25            5-13-25     151.23
005-25            5-13-25     117.02,
                              117.03
                              72.16,
006-25            6-10-25     72.18,
                              72.19
007-25            6-10-25     72.02
                              134.50 -
011-25            8-12-25     134.54,
                              134.58,
                              134.99
012-25            9-9-25      36.16
013-25            9-9-25      118.02-
                              118.04
014-25            9-8-25      72.16
                             
 
