GOOSE CREEK, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-21 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-006, passed 2-11-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Gregory S. Habib
Mayor
Debra Green-Fletcher
Mayor Pro Tem
City Council
Hannah Cox
Melissa Enos
Christopher Harmon
Gayla S.L. McSwain
Jerry Tekac
Natalie Zeigler
City Administrator
Kelly J. Lovette, MMC
City Clerk
Tim Domin
City Attorney
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ADOPTING ORDINANCE 09-005
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE CITY OF GOOSE CREEK,
SOUTH CAROLINA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
THEREIN; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE
MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE
SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL:
Section 1.   The Code entitled "Code of Ordinances, City of Goose Creek, South
Carolina," published by American Legal Publishing Corporation, consisting of
chapters 10 through 151, which shall supersede all general and permanent
ordinances of the City passed on or before the adoption of this ordinance, to
the extent provided in Section 2 hereof.
Section 2.   All provisions of the Code shall be in full force and effect from
and after the effective date of this ordinance, and all ordinances of a general
and permanent nature enacted on final passage on or before the effective date
of this ordinance and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in
force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the effective
date of the Code.
Section 3.   The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed
to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4.   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance or
resolution, rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30
days. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall
occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this
section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the
amendment of any Code section, whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the
amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the City may
pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and
revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 5.   Any and all additions or amendments to the Code when passed in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Mayor and Councilmembers to make
the same a part of the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so
that reference to the Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6.   In case of the amendment of any section of the Code for which a
penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in Section 4 of this
ordinance and in Section 1-6 of such Code shall apply to the section as
amended, or in case the amendment contains provisions for which a penalty,
other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section
in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in the other section shall be held
to relate to the section so amended, unless the penalty is specifically
repealed therein.
Section 7.   Any ordinance adopted after the effective date of this ordinance
which amends or refers to ordinances which have been codified in such Code,
shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of such Code.
Section 9.   This ordinance shall become effective August 11, 2009.
INTRODUCED the 14th day of July, 2009.
Done the 11th day of August, 2009.
                            /s/
                           Mayor Michael J. Heitzler, Ed.D.
Attest: /s/
    Kelly J. Lovette, CMC, City Clerk
/s/           /s/
Mayor Pro Tem James (Kimo) R. Esarey      Councilmember Marguerite H. Brown
/s/           /s/
Councilmember Sal Gandolfo               Councilmember John B. McCants
/s/           /s/
Councilmember Mark A. Phillips            Councilmember Jerry Tekac
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation and citation
   
10.02   Continuation of existing ordinances
   
10.03   Definitions
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Catchlines
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Effect of repeal or expiration
   
10.08   Amendments
   
10.09   Altering the code
   
10.10   Liability for violations
   
10.11   Prosecution for different penalties
   
10.12   Municipal uniform ordinance summons
   
10.13   Recording, filing, publication of ordinances
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Supplementation of code
   
10.16   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION AND CITATION.
   The ordinances embraced in this and following chapters and sections
constitute and are designated as “The Code of Ordinances of Goose Creek, South
Carolina”, and may be so cited. They may be cited also as the “Goose Creek City
Code” or “The City Code of Goose Creek”.
§ 10.02 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND or OR. The word AND may be read as OR, and the word OR may be read as
AND where the sense requires it.
   BOND. When BOND is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
   CITY. The City of Goose Creek, Berkeley County, South Carolina.
   CLERK. The Municipal City Clerk. The title may be used interchangeably with
“Clerk”, “City Clerk” or “Clerk-Treasurer”, if one person holds both positions.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, computed by
excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last day be Sunday
or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded. The day the act, event or default
after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included.
The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a
Saturday, Sunday or a state or federal holiday, in which event the period runs
until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday nor the
holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. A half holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
holiday.
   CORPORATE LIMITS, CORPORATION LIMITS. Whenever the words CORPORATE LIMITS,
CORPORATION LIMITS or words of similar import are used, they shall mean the
legal boundary of the City of Goose Creek.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, as defined in S.C. Code § 5-
11-20.
   COUNTY. The County of Berkeley, State of South Carolina.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears in this code requiring
the manager of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be constructed to authorize the manager of the
department or other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates
to perform the required act or make the required inspection, unless the terms
of the provision or section designate otherwise.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire and Police Departments, ambulances
and/or emergency vehicles or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the South Carolina Department of Highways and Transportation, or
by the City Council.
   GENDER. See §
10.04(B).
   IN THE CITY. Any territory, jurisdiction of which, for the exercise of the
city’s regulatory power, has been conferred on it by public or local law.
   INTERPRETATION. In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restriction upon the
subject matter than another more general provision imposed by the code, the
provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving joint authority to three or more persons
or offices shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
   KEEPER, PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and
partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or
employee.
   MAY. The act shall be permissive.
   MINOR. All references to minors in this code shall be deemed to mean persons
under the age of 18 years, except as otherwise provided in laws relating to the
sale of alcoholic beverages.
   MONTH. A calendar month, unless defined otherwise.
   MUNICIPALITY. May be used interchangeably with “city” and shall mean the
entire area within the corporate limits.
   NAME OF OFFICIAL, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to an
official, board, commission, department and the like, by title only, it shall
be construed as though the words “of the City of Goose Creek” were added.
   NONTECHNICAL and TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to the meaning.
   NUMBER. See §
10.04(A).
   OATH or SWEAR. SWORN shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in
such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be the equivalent to words AFFIRM
and AFFIRMED and vice versa.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part
of the building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group as a unit, as well as an individual or individuals.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property, as
defined in this section.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. The next before and the next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. Place or places.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto,
and any river or other waterway.
   REAL PROPERTY and REAL ESTATE. Lands, tenements and the hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as the person’s place of
habitation, and to which, whenever the person is absent, the person has the
intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another,
the place where the person sleeps shall be deemed the person’s residence.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. Territory contiguous to, and including a street not
comprising a business district when the property on the street for a distance
of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with dwellings or dwellings and
buildings in use with residences.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SEAL. The city or corporate seal.
   SHALL. The act shall be mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
lines of a roadway where there is no curb and the adjacent property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. A mark, when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STATUTE REFERENCES. Whenever reference is made, for example, to S.C. Code §
44-1-160, it shall be constructed to refer to the code of Laws of South
Carolina, § 44-1-160, as amended, or whatever section is to be cited. Whenever
reference is made, for example, to Acts 1944, p.1301, it shall be constructed
to refer to page 1301 of the Acts of South Carolina 1944, or whatever page and
year is to be cited.
   STREET. Streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
bridges and all other public thoroughfares, and shall mean the entire width
thereof between abutting property lines. It shall be construed to include a
sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless the
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or part of a building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TENSE. Words used in the past and present tense shall include the future as
well as the past and present.
   WEEK. Seven days.
   WRITING. The words “writing” or “written” shall include printing and any
other mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise defined.
(1985 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural, and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
   (B)   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females also,
and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
   (C)   All words importing the present tense shall apply to the future also.
§ 10.05 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code, printed in capital
letters, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate or emphasize the contents
of the sections, not as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so
provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the
catchlines, are ended or reenacted.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council, that if any
section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall be declared
unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code since the same
would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code of any
unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, division or section.
§ 10.07 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to the adoption of this code, which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, shall be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. In the
case of repealed chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof by
subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following, but not necessarily the exact, language:
“that §               (number to be inserted) of the City Code of The City of
Goose Creek is hereby amended as follows:                              .”
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “that the Goose Creek City Code,
is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered §                (number
to be inserted), which section shall read as follows:              .” The new
section shall then be set out in full as enacted, and the sections of this code
may be renumbered to accomplish the intention.
   (D)   All divisions, sections, chapters or provisions to be repealed shall
be specifically repealed by division, section or chapter number, as the case
may be.
§ 10.09 ALTERING THE CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the laws of the municipality to be misrepresented thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.10 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation, unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment,
shall, in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation, unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation, unincorporated association or
organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where the
violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order
of any person.
§ 10.11 PROSECUTION FOR DIFFERENT PENALTIES.
   In all cases where the same offense may be created by different clauses or
sections of the ordinances of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense.
§ 10.12 MUNICIPAL UNIFORM ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the code, or any code
adopted pursuant thereto, within the corporate limits of the city, may be
issued a uniform ordinance summons. Issuance of the uniform ordinance summons
shall vest jurisdiction in the Municipal Court to hear and dispose of the
charge for which the uniform ordinance summons was issued and served. The
uniform ordinance summons may be issued by any city law enforcement officer or
any other city employees designated by the Council as code enforcement
officers. The bond amount for violations shall be prescribed by the Chief
Municipal Court Judge. City law enforcement or code enforcement officers are
prohibited from accepting bonds. Bonds are to be posted in the manner
prescribed in the uniform ordinance summons. The uniform ordinance summons
shall not be used to perform a custodial arrest.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any ordinance which regulates the use
of motor vehicles on the public roads.
§ 10.13 RECORDING, FILING, PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Council shall be recorded by the Municipal
Clerk in proper books with indexes. The originals shall be filed in the Clerk's
office and due proof of the publication of all ordinances requiring
publication, by the certificate of the publisher or printer, shall be procured
by the Clerk, and attached thereto, or written and attested upon the face of
the record of the ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Proof of ordinance of municipality, see S.C. Code § 19-3-10
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall take effect upon their publication, unless an ordinance
shall otherwise specify the time when it shall go into effect.
(1985 Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.15 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the Council or adopted by initiative and
referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into the
unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this article”, “this division” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections             to              “ (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(1985 Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.16 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code, or the ordinance adopting this code, shall
affect any ordinance:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's
indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the city;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the City Council not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise and establishing any rates
therefor;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like, any street or public way in the city;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes, not inconsistent with this code;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades of streets in the city;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city, or
prescribing subdivision regulations;
      (10)   Adopting, extending or contracting the boundaries of the city;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any city
officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith;
      (12)   Prescribing zoning regulations or re-zoning particular property;
      (13)   The ordinance contained in this section, adopting the Mayor-
Council form of government;
      (14)   Any ordinance adopted after April 9, 1985; and
      (15)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
   (B)   All ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and
effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. The ordinances
are on file in the City Clerk's office.
(1985 Code, § 1-11)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation or order promulgated by any agency or officer thereof under
authority duly vested in him, her or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required, where no specific penalty is provided for the violation thereof,
the violation of any provisions of this code, ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation or order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 plus
assessments required by the State of South Carolina or by imprisonment for a
period not exceeding 30 days, or both. No penalty shall exceed the penalty
provided by state law for similar offenses. Each day any violation of this code
or any ordinance, rule or regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance or resolution of the
city, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever in the code, ordinance or resolution, the doing of any act
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any ordinance, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 plus
assessments required by the State of South Carolina or imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 30 days. Each day any violation of any provision of this code or
of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty herein above provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
code, or any such ordinance or resolution, shall be deemed a public nuisance
and may be, by the city, abated as provided by law, and each day that the
condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 1-6) (Ord. 93-005A, passed 8-30-1993)
Statutory references:
   Authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Limitation on fine and term of imprisonment, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Maximum penalties that Municipal Judge may impose, see S.C. Code § 14-25-65
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   CITY OFFICERS
      
33.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
35.   CIVIL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
      
36.   COURT AND CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
      
37.   ELECTIONS
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Administrative regulations
   
30.02   Administrative directives
   
30.03   City Seal
   
30.04   Uniform ordinance summons
§ 30.01 ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS.
   Administrative regulations shall be issued by the City Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.02 ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTIVES.
   Administrative directives shall be issued by the City Administrator and
department managers.
(1985 Code, § 2-2)
§ 30.03 CITY SEAL.
   The city shall have a common seal, which shall be affixed to all ordinances
passed by the City Council, to all deeds of real estate executed on behalf of
the city and to all notes, bonds and other evidences of indebtedness executed
in behalf of the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.04 UNIFORM ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   A uniform ordinance summons is hereby adopted pursuant to S.C. Code § 56-7-
80, as amended, with the following stipulations:
   (A)   The City Administrator shall have responsibility for the ordinance
summons, and shall insure that a complete audit of the ordinance summons shall
be completed on an annual basis by the city's independent auditor;
   (B)   The Finance Director shall be responsible for having the ordinance
summons printed, issuing the same and keeping a record of the ordinance summons
issued to city code enforcement officials;
   (C)   All code enforcement officials issuing ordinance summons shall be
responsible for forwarding the copy of the ordinance summons labeled “Court
Copy”, to the Municipal Court within 24 hours of issuing the ordinance summons.
It shall also be the code enforcement official’s responsibility to retain the
copy of the ordinance summons labeled “Officer Copy” until the designated
hearing time, and after all action concerning the ordinance summons has been
concluded, the code enforcement official shall deliver the “Officer Copy” to
the Finance Director within 24 hours for the proper accounting of the same;
   (D)   The form of the ordinance summons shall be substantially the same
(sequentially numbered, in triplicate) as the form which is attached hereto,
and incorporated herein by reference. The ordinance summons shall clearly
indicate by printing that such is an ordinance summons of the City of Goose
Creek, South Carolina; and
   (E)   The City Administrator may promulgate additional administrative
regulations for the proper handling of the ordinance summons.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 11-10-1992)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Composition of Council
   
31.002   Eligibility for Mayor and Council members
   
31.003   Tenure
   
31.004   Oath of office
   
31.005   Compensation frequency of Mayor and Council members
Mayor
   
31.020   Chief Executive Officer
   
31.021   Investigation of city books, papers and records
   
31.022   Devolution of powers and duties; generally
   
31.023   Suppression of riots and preservation of good order
Powers and Duties
   
31.035   Legislative power; determination of policy
   
31.036   Enactment of ordinances
   
31.037   Police power
   
31.038   Establishment of offices
   
31.039   General health and welfare
   
31.040   Adoption of the budget
   
31.041   Authorization of issuance of bonds
   
31.042   To secure an independent audit
   
31.043   Power to investigate; subpoena witness
   
31.044   Power to hold in contempt; disruptive actions
   
31.045   Appeal from administrative rules and regulations
Meetings and Procedure
   
31.060   Place, day and time of regular meeting; meetings open
   
31.061   Special meetings
   
31.062   Executive sessions
   
31.063   Minutes
   
31.064   Duty to attend; penalty for failure; electronic attendance
   
31.065   Quorum, lack thereof; tie vote
   
31.066   Presiding officer; duties generally
   
31.067   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
31.068   Order of proceedings
   
31.069   Speaking by member; addressing Chair; respect
   
31.070   Recognition of speaker
   
31.071   Frequency
   
31.072   Voting; members required to vote
   
31.073   Explanation of vote; reasons may be recorded
   
31.074   Interested member not to vote
   
31.075   Reducing motions, resolutions and propositions to writing
   
31.076   Citizens’ request to meet with Council
   
31.077   Committees
   
31.078   Committee reports generally; required; signing
   
31.079   Approval or disapproval of proposals and recommendations
   
31.080   Acts required to be done by ordinance
   
31.081   Passage of ordinances; duty of Council; enforcement
   
31.082   Form
   
31.083   Introduction; readings
   
31.084   Signing
   
31.085   Effective date of ordinances
   
31.086   Entering ordinances in book; indexing; proof of publication
   
31.087   Notation in ordinance book of amending and repealing
   
31.088   Tampering with ordinance books or minute books
   
31.089   Appearance of citizens; public participation
   
31.090   Agenda
   
31.091   Meetings and public participation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL.
   The governing body of the city shall consist of a Mayor and six Council
members and shall be known as the City Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-20)
§ 31.002 ELIGIBILITY FOR MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   To be eligible for the position of Mayor or Council member of the city, a
person shall be a duly qualified elector of the city under the constitution and
statutes of the state.
(1985 Code, § 2-21)
§ 31.003 TENURE.
   The Mayor and Council members shall hold office for the period of four years
and until their successors shall be duly elected and have qualified. The terms
of Council shall be staggered so that not more than one half of the Council and
Mayor shall be elected in the same general election.
(1985 Code, § 2-22)
§ 31.004 OATH OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor and Council members, before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, shall take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to the Constitution of this state,
to exercise the duties of the office to which I have been elected, and that I
will, to the best of my ability, discharge the duties thereof, and preserve,
protect and defend the Constitution of the state and of the United States. As
Mayor (or Council member) of the City of Goose Creek, I will equally, fairly
and impartially to the best of my ability and skill, exercise the trust reposed
in me and will use my best endeavor to preserve the peace and carry into
effect, according to law, the purpose for which I have been elected. So help me
God”.
(1985 Code, § 2-23)
§ 31.005 COMPENSATION FREQUENCY OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and Council members shall be paid an annual salary, payable bi-
weekly (every other week), in accordance with the amounts set forth in the
annual appropriations ordinance, in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 2021-002, passed 1-12-2021)
MAYOR
§ 31.020 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the city and shall
exercise all powers and authority vested in the officer by the ordinances of
the city and the laws of the state. In addition to the powers and duties
exercised and required by law or ordinance, it shall be the Mayor's duty to be
vigilant and active at all times in causing the ordinances and laws of the city
to be duly executed and put into force, to inspect the conduct of all
subordinate officers in the government or management of their respective
offices and, as far as it is in the Mayor's power, to cause all negligence,
carelessness and positive violation of duty to be duly prosecuted and punished.
(1985 Code, § 2-30)
§ 31.021 INVESTIGATION OF CITY BOOKS, PAPERS AND RECORDS.
   The Mayor shall have full power to investigate the books, papers and records
of the officers of the city, whenever, in the Mayor's opinion, it may be
necessary, or appoint others to do so.
(1985 Code, § 2-31)
§ 31.022 DEVOLUTION OF POWERS AND DUTIES; GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor, at the first meeting after the officer's
inauguration, to call an election at which one of the Council members may be
elected Mayor Pro Tem, whose duty it shall be to act as Mayor in the absence of
the Mayor from the city, or when the Mayor may be incapacitated from
discharging the duties of the office. In the absence or inability of both the
Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem, the duties of the Mayor shall devolve on and be
performed by the Council member as the Council shall name.
(1985 Code, § 2-32)
§ 31.023 SUPPRESSION OF RIOTS AND PRESERVATION OF GOOD ORDER.
   It is the special duty of the Mayor to take prompt measures for the
suppression of rows and riots and the preservation of good order in the city,
for which purpose the Mayor is authorized to require all the city officers and,
if necessary, the citizens, to aid and assist the officer.
(1985 Code, § 2-33)
POWERS AND DUTIES
§ 31.035 LEGISLATIVE POWER; DETERMINATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   All legislative powers of the city and the determination of all
matters of policy shall be vested in the City Council.
   (B)   Each Council member, including the Mayor, shall have one vote.
(1985 Code, § 2-40)
§ 31.036 ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   The City Council shall enact ordinances of every nature and kind, not
prohibited by the law or constitution of the state or of the nation.
(1985 Code, § 2-41)
Statutory references:
   Acts required to be done by ordinance, see S.C. Code § 5-7-260
   Form and procedure for introducing and passing ordinances, see S.C. Code §
5-7-270
§ 31.037 POLICE POWER.
   The City Council shall have the power and authority to make, ordain and
establish all the rules, bylaws, regulations and ordinances not inconsistent
with the laws of the state or nation respecting the roads, streets, markets,
police, health and order of the city or respecting any subject as shall appear
to the Council necessary and proper for the security, welfare and convenience
of the city, or for preserving the health, peace, order and good government
within the city. The City Council may fix fines and penalties for the violation
thereof not exceeding $500 fine or 30 days imprisonment.
(1985 Code, § 2-42)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 31.038 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICES.
   The City Council shall have the power to establish the subordinate offices
as it deems necessary, and assign to the offices appropriate duties and powers.
(1985 Code, § 2-43)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and the like, of departments, see S.C. Code § 5-9-40
§ 31.039 GENERAL HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the City Council to provide for the
general health and welfare of the city in accordance with the law of the state
with reference to the general police powers now granted to municipalities.
(1985 Code, § 2-44)
§ 31.040 ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET.
   The City Council shall annually adopt a budget for the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-45)
§ 31.041 AUTHORIZATION OF ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
   The City Council shall authorize the issuance of bonds by a bond ordinance
subject to the restrictions and limitations as may be prescribed by law.
(1985 Code, § 2-46)
§ 31.042 TO SECURE AN INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   (A)   The Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all
financial records and transactions of the municipality and of any agency funded
in whole or in part by municipal funds, and may provide for more frequent
audits as it deems necessary. The audits shall be made by a certified public
accountant or firm of the accountants who have no personal interest direct or
indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the municipal government or any of its
officers
   (B)   The Council may, without requiring competitive bids, designate the
accountant or firm annually or for a period not exceeding four years, provided,
that the designation for any particular fiscal year shall be made no later than
30 days after the beginning of the fiscal year. The reports of the audit shall
be made available for public inspection. The Council may, in its discretion,
accept independent audits of municipal agencies and departments and include the
audit of the municipality.
(1985 Code, § 2-47)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 5-7-240
§ 31.043 POWER TO INVESTIGATE; SUBPOENA WITNESS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to appoint committees to
investigate any department of the city government and any office thereof, and
the committees of Council shall have the same power which a magistrate has to
compel the attendance of witnesses and to require them to give evidence under
oath in the same manner as in the courts of the state.
(1985 Code, § 2-48)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-100
§ 31.044 POWER TO HOLD IN CONTEMPT; DISRUPTIVE ACTIONS.
   (A)   Any person refusing to obey a subpoena and give the evidence as is
required thereunder shall be held in contempt of Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or interfere with any
session or meeting of the Council by any means or any manner, or to use
profane, obscene or disrespectful language, gestures or signs, to or in the
presence thereof, or to commit any offense which is by the laws of the state,
deemed a contempt.
(1985 Code, § 2-49) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.045 APPEAL FROM ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every citizen who shall be held to be in violation of any rule,
regulation or directive to the city through its normal governmental operations
shall have recourse by appeal to the City Council except for those violations
normally handled by the court.
   (B)   To perfect this appeal, the petitioner must reduce it to writing by
citing the violation, date and time, and all the facts bearing thereon as the
petitioner sees them, and present it to Council or to the City Clerk for
transmittal to the Council at its next session.
   (C)   The Council shall have the right to deny the petition or to alter,
amend or rescind the rule, regulation or directive, as its investigation shall
indicate.
(1985 Code, § 2-50)
MEETINGS AND PROCEDURE
§ 31.060 PLACE, DAY AND TIME OF REGULAR MEETING; MEETINGS OPEN.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held in the City
Hall, or by telephonic or other electronic means, on the second Tuesday of each
month. In the event the regular meeting falls on a municipal General Election
date, the meeting shall be held the second Thursday of that month. The time
shall be 6:00 p.m. unless another hour is specified.
   (B)   All meetings shall be open to the public, except as otherwise
specifically provided for by the state “Freedom of Information Act”.
(1985 Code, § 2-60) (Ord. 20-020, passed 9-8-2020; Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-
2021; Ord. 2023-005, passed 1-10-2023)
Statutory reference:
   For the Act, see S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 et seq.
§ 31.061 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   A special meeting may be called by the Mayor in case of an emergency or
when, in the Mayor's judgement, the good of the city requires it. The Mayor
shall call extra or special meetings when requested by a majority of the
Council members. Notice of a special meeting shall be given immediately to all
members and the news media by the City Clerk.
(1985 Code, § 2-61)
§ 31.062 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   The City Council may be called into executive session as permitted by the
state “Freedom of Information Act”.
(1985 Code, § 2-62)
Statutory reference:
   For the Act, see S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 et seq.
§ 31.063 MINUTES.
   The minutes of all meetings of the Council, except during executive session,
shall be kept by the City Clerk and shall be recorded in a book designated as
“The Minutes of City Council of Goose Creek”.
(1985 Code, § 2-63)
§ 31.064 DUTY TO ATTEND; PENALTY FOR FAILURE; ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Council members to attend the regular
meetings of the Council and, when notified, to attend all extra or special
meetings called by the Mayor. The Mayor or Council member failing or refusing
to attend these meetings without sufficient excuse, shall pay the fine as the
Council may impose.
   (B)   Council members may attend any regular, special, or emergency meetings
of Council by telephonic or other electronic means, and shall be considered
present for all purposes, if the meeting has been properly noticed, and all
Council members and members of the public can reasonably hear the public
proceedings and be heard, if and as applicable. Any number of Council members,
including all, may attend telephonically or by other electronic means.
(1985 Code, § 2-64) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 31.065 QUORUM, LACK THEREOF; TIE VOTE.
   (A)   A simple majority of the total membership of Council shall constitute
a quorum for the conduct of any business at a meeting. A Council member present
but disqualified from voting on a question by state law due to a conflict of
interest shall not be counted for the purpose of a quorum. If a quorum fails to
appear within 15 minutes after the hour appointed for a Council meeting, no
member shall be required to attend longer.
   (B)   If, in the vote the Council shall be equally divided, the question
shall be decided in the negative.
(1985 Code, § 2-65) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see S.C. Code § 5-7-160
§ 31.066 PRESIDING OFFICER; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Council. In the
absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside and in the absence of the
Mayor Pro Tem, the Council shall proceed to elect, if a quorum is found to be
present, by a majority vote of those present, a Chairperson on the meeting to
preside until the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem appears.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall preserve decorum and shall decide all
questions of order, subject to appeal to the Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-66)
§ 31.067 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Except as may be otherwise provided, the proceedings of the City
Council shall be controlled by the Robert’s Rules of Order, Modern Edition.
   (B)   The City Administrator and/or officer designated by City Council shall
act as parliamentarian.
   (C)   To the extent Robert's Rules require a physical presence of the
Council for purposes of constituting a quorum, such requirement is waived so
long as the Council maintains a quorum under §
31.065. Further, to the extent Robert's Rules or any other procedural rules,
procedures or regulations conflict with any other provision of this code, the
provisions of the code shall be controlling in all instances.
(1985 Code, § 2-67) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 31.068 ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Immediately at the hour appointed for the meeting of the Council, the Mayor
shall call the same to order, and if a quorum is present, business shall be
proceeded within the following order:
   (A)   Approval of the minutes of the preceding meeting;
   (B)   Ordinances already in possession of Council shall be considered;
   (C)   Petitions received and disposed with;
   (D)   Reports or communications from city officers;
   (E)   Reports from special committees;
   (F)   Miscellaneous business not included in any of the preceding
categories; and
   (G)   Adjournment.
(1985 Code, § 2-68)
§ 31.069 SPEAKING BY MEMBER; ADDRESSING CHAIR; RESPECT.
   Every member of the Council when about to speak shall address the presiding
officer, and in speaking shall avoid all disrespect to the Council and all
personalities, and shall confine the speaking to the subject under
consideration.
(1985 Code, § 2-69)
§ 31.070 RECOGNITION OF SPEAKER.
   The presiding officer, when addressed by a member who rises in order, shall
name the member using no official title. The member who shall rise first in
order, shall be first heard. If several members rise about the same time, the
presiding officer shall decide who shall speak first.
(1985 Code, § 2-70)
§ 31.071 FREQUENCY.
   No member shall speak more than twice on the same question without leave of
the Council, except to explain.
(1985 Code, § 2-71)
§ 31.072 VOTING; MEMBERS REQUIRED TO VOTE.
   (A)   Council members in attendance by telephonic or other electronic means
shall have all rights, including, but not limited to, the right to make
motions, second motions, and discuss and vote on all matters under
consideration by Council.
   (B)   Roll call voting shall be used when requested by any member, and for
any meeting of Council where one or more members of Council are participating
electronically. When the question has been stated, the roll shall be called by
the Clerk, and after the first response has been made to the call, all debate
shall cease and no member shall say more than “yea” or “nay”. During the roll
call, no member shall leave the Council chamber and every member present shall,
when the member's name is called, give the member's vote unless excused by a
majority of members present. Should the vote of all present result in a tie,
the question shall be decided in the negative.
(1985 Code, § 2-72) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 31.073 EXPLANATION OF VOTE; REASONS MAY BE RECORDED.
   (A)   Any member of the Council may, if the member desires, have time in
which to explain the member's vote if permitted by a majority of the Council.
The member may be allowed not more than five minutes in which to do so.
   (B)   A member may, if the member desires, have the member's reasons for
voting for or against any measure recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
(1985 Code, § 2-73)
§ 31.074 INTERESTED MEMBER NOT TO VOTE.
   No member of Council or the Mayor shall vote on any question of a private
nature, in the event of which the person is personally interested. A member
present but disqualified from voting on a question by state law due to a
conflict of interest shall not be counted for purpose of a quorum.
(1985 Code, § 2-74) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Conflicts of interests, see S.C. Code § 5-7-130
§ 31.075 REDUCING MOTIONS, RESOLUTIONS AND PROPOSITIONS TO WRITING.
   All motions, resolutions or propositions shall be reduced to writing, if
required by any member of the Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-75)
§ 31.076 CITIZENS’ REQUEST TO MEET WITH COUNCIL.
   All persons desiring to meet and engage in a business session with the
Council shall first submit a written request to the Mayor, requesting an
appointment, stating time and place for the meeting and shall stipulate the
nature of business to be discussed or transacted, this notice to be given at
least ten days prior to the meeting or at a time within the discretion of the
Mayor.
(1985 Code, § 2-76)
§ 31.077 COMMITTEES.
   The City Council may provide for special committee, whose members shall be
appointed by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex-officio member of all the
committees.
(1985 Code, § 2-77)
§ 31.078 COMMITTEE REPORTS GENERALLY; REQUIRED; SIGNING.
   All committees of the Council shall regularly report to the Council all
their acts and plans for matters within their jurisdiction. Committee reports
shall be signed by a majority of the members to whom the subject was referred.
(1985 Code, § 2-78)
§ 31.079 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF PROPOSALS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The City Council shall be the final authority for the approval or
disapproval of any committee proposals or recommendations.
(1985 Code, § 2-79)
§ 31.080 ACTS REQUIRED TO BE DONE BY ORDINANCE.
   The City Council shall act by ordinance in all matters required by law to be
done by ordinance, including:
   (A)   The adoption or amending of an administrative code or the
establishment, alteration or abolition of a municipal department, office or
agency;
   (B)   The establishment of a fine or other penalty or the establishment of
any rule or regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for
violations;
   (C)   The adoption of budgets or the levy of taxes, except as otherwise
provided, with respect to the property tax levied by the adoption of a budget,
pursuant to public notice;
   (D)   The granting, renewal or extension of franchises;
   (E)   The authorization to borrow money;
   (F)   The selling, leasing or contracting to sell or lease any lands of the
municipality; and
   (G)   The amending or repealing of any ordinance listed above.
(1985 Code, § 2-80)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 5-7-260
§ 31.081 PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES; DUTY OF COUNCIL; ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of City Council to pass, from time to time, the
ordinances as to its judgement shall best promote the interest of the citizens
and property holders of the city, and to diligently and actively ensure the
enforcement of these and all ordinances of the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-81)
§ 31.082 FORM.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be in writing and in the form required for
final adoption which shall include:
   (A)   A title briefly describing the content;
   (B)   Findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired and
appropriate;
   (C)   An enacting clause;
   (D)   Citation of any ordinance repealed;
   (E)   The provisions of the ordinance, which may include code section
numbers if the ordinance is to be codified or amends an existing codified
ordinance;
   (F)   The effective date of the ordinance;
   (G)   The assignment of an ordinance number; and
   (H)   Space for the signatures of the Mayor, members of Council and the City
Clerk.
(1985 Code, § 2-82) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Introducing and passing ordinances, see S.C. Code § 5-7-270
§ 31.083 INTRODUCTION; READINGS.
   Every proposed ordinance must be introduced in writing and in the form
required for final adoption. No ordinance may have the force of law until it
has been read at least two times and on two separate days, with at least six
days between each reading.
(1985 Code, § 2-83)
Statutory reference:
   Required readings, see S.C. Code § 5-7-270
§ 31.084 SIGNING.
   Every ordinance passed by the City Council shall be signed by at least three
members of Council, the Mayor and the City Clerk before it shall be in force.
(1985 Code, § 2-84)
§ 31.085 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall take effect upon their publication, unless an ordinance
shall otherwise specify the time when it shall go into effect.
(1985 Code, § 2-85)
§ 31.086 ENTERING ORDINANCES IN BOOK; INDEXING; PROOF OF PUBLICATION.
   The City Clerk shall enter the original ordinance in the ordinance book of
the city as passed by the Council. The ordinance book shall be indexed. Due
proof of the publication of all ordinances requiring publication by the
certificate of the publisher or printer shall be procured by the City Clerk.
(1985 Code, § 2-86)
§ 31.087 NOTATION IN ORDINANCE BOOK OF AMENDING AND REPEALING.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall write on the indexes pages of each ordinance
book, if any part therein has been amended or repealed, as the case may be, the
words “amended” or “repealed” with a reference to the ordinance number where
the amending or repealing ordinance can be found.
   (B)   When the amending or repealing ordinance shall change the subject
matter, the notation shall be made in the index at the appropriate places.
(1985 Code, § 2-87)
§ 31.088 TAMPERING WITH ORDINANCE BOOKS OR MINUTE BOOKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without authority from the City
Council, to make any alterations, erasures, changes or interlineations in the
ordinance books or minute books of the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.089 APPEARANCE OF CITIZENS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the terms of the applicable agenda for any meeting, any
citizen of the city shall be entitled to make an appearance (either in person
or via electronic means) before Council at any meeting concerning any city
matter, with the exception of personnel matters. Persons desiring to speak must
notify the City Clerk prior to the beginning of the meeting.
   (B)   Except as provided below, public comment periods and public hearings
shall be conducted in accordance with rules and procedures of Council. Notices
of public hearings shall include instructions regarding the manner in which the
public hearing shall be held.
   (C)   With respect to any electronic or virtual meetings of Council and
subject to the terms of the applicable agenda for such meeting, members of the
public may also participate electronically, as follows:
      (1)   Public comments for electronic meetings. Individuals wishing to
provide written comments for any public comment period may submit written
comments to the City Clerk no later than one hour prior to any meeting of
Council, and the Mayor (or other presiding official) may read such comments
aloud during the applicable public comment period. Nothing herein shall require
such comments to be read aloud. Individuals wishing to speak during the public
comment period may sign up with the City Clerk no later than one hour prior to
the scheduled time for the public hearing. The City Clerk shall contact those
who wish to speak at the public comment period by phone, in the order the
requests were received, to admit them to the public comment period.
      (2)   Public hearings for electronic meetings. Individuals wishing to
provide written comments for any public hearing held during an electronic
meeting may email comments to the City Clerk no later than one hour prior to
the scheduled time for such public hearing, and the Mayor (or other presiding
official) shall read such comments aloud during the public hearing. Individuals
wishing to speak at the public hearing shall sign up with the City Clerk no
later than one hour prior to the scheduled time for the public hearing. The
City Clerk shall contact those who wish to speak at the public hearing by
phone, in the order the requests were received, to admit them to the public
hearing.
(Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 31.090 AGENDA.
   Absent exigent circumstances, matters to be considered at any meeting of
Council shall be placed on a written agenda prepared by the Mayor or his or her
assigns and publicly and timely posted by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 31.091 MEETINGS AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   A quorum of any city board or commission shall mean a simple majority
of the total membership of each board or commission.
   (B)   Members of any city board or commission may attend any regular,
special, or emergency meeting by telephonic or other electronic means, and
shall be considered present for all purposes, if the meeting has been properly
noticed, and all members and members of the public can hear the public
proceedings and be heard. Any number of members, including all, may attend
telephonically or by other electronic means. Members in attendance by
telephonic or other electronic means shall have all rights, including, but not
limited to, the right to make motions, second motions, and discuss and vote on
all matters under consideration by such board or commission.
   (C)   Any public participation required by any city board or commission may
be held electronically under the procedures applicable to Council in §
31.089, mutatis mutandis.
   (D)   To the extent permitted by law, all procedural rules of any city board
or commission shall be revised or shall be deemed revised by the terms hereof.
(Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICERS
Section
City Administrator
   
32.01   Appointment; term; bond; removal
   
32.02   Communications with Council
   
32.03   Job description
   
32.04   General duties; delegation of authority
City Clerk
   
32.20   Appointment; term; salary as fixed
   
32.21   Bond
   
32.22   Subject to orders, directions and the like
   
32.23   General duties
   
32.24   Signing and attesting ordinances and other documents
   
32.25   Keeping the ordinance book
   
32.26   Removal of papers or documents from Clerk’s custody
   
32.27   Custodian of Seal
City Attorney
   
32.45   Appointment
   
32.46   Qualifications
   
32.47   Term
   
32.48   General duties
   
32.49   Duty to attend Council meetings
   
32.50   Duty to advise and assist Mayor, Council and city officers
   
32.51   Prosecution and defense of actions; appearance in legal proceedings
   
32.52   Drafting ordinances and instruments; legal correspondence
   
32.53   Salary as fixed
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENT; TERM; BOND; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor and the City Council shall appoint a City
Administrator and fix the Administrator's compensation. The City Administrator
shall be named solely on the basis of the person's executive and administrative
qualifications.
   (B)   Term. The City Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor
and City Council for an indefinite term.
   (C)   Bond. The City Administrator shall enter into an approved bond in the
sum as prescribed by the City Council, conditioned for the faithful and honest
performance of the duties of the office. The cost of the bond shall be paid by
the city.
   (D)   Removal. The City Administrator may be removed from office by a
majority vote of all members of the City Council. Those members voting for
removal shall state their reasons for the vote. The action of the City Council
in removing the City Administrator shall be final. In all cases the City
Administrator shall receive 90 days notice of removal, or severance pay for 90
days if the removal is effective immediately; or for a greater amount as
dictated by a contract between the city and the City Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 2-100)
§ 32.02 COMMUNICATIONS WITH COUNCIL.
   The City Administrator shall relate to and communicate with the Mayor and
the City Council as a whole, any problems, situations and conditions which
arise concerning any department or activity of the city which, in the opinion
of the City Administrator, is of significance. Except for the purpose of
inquiry, the members of the Council shall communicate directly to the City
Administrator in all matters concerning any department or activity of the city.
No member of City Council shall give orders to anyone subordinate to the City
Administrator except in a case of an emergency.
(1985 Code, § 2-101)
§ 32.03 JOB DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Function. Plans, directs and coordinates administrative and
operational activities of the city, appoints and supervises all appointed
department managers, performs duties involving formulation of broad policies
and long-term programs, including decision making which establishes guides and
general directives for the organization as a whole.
   (B)   Examples of work performed.
      (1)   Approves preparation of and submits annual budget to Mayor and City
Council;
      (2)   Recommends organizational changes and assists in formulation of
internal plans, policies and programs;
      (3)   Maintains operational control and supervision of all appointed
department managers and their departments;
      (4)   Plans, directs and coordinates activities of all departments funded
by the Council;
      (5)   Coordinates the activities of city government with all other
agencies within the city, county and with state and federal agencies, develops
and establishes policies and procedures for the operation of administrative
functions and operational activities of the city, including fire, police,
street and public works and the like; and
      (6)   Performs related duties as required.
   (C)   Required knowledge, skills and abilities.
      (1)   Thorough knowledge of principals and practices of public and
private business administration;
      (2)   Extensive knowledge of public works activities and practice; and
      (3)   Extensive knowledge of modern planning and capital budgeting.
   (D)   Minimum training and experience. A master's degree in public
administration and three years experience in local government administration,
or a bachelor's degree and six years related experience.
(1985 Code, § 2-102)
§ 32.04 GENERAL DUTIES; DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and to the
City Council for the proper administration of the policies and affairs of the
city, and to that end shall have the power and authority and be required to:
      (1)   Assist the Mayor in carrying out the duties of the Mayor's office;
      (2)   Direct, supervise and coordinate administrative activities and
operations;
      (3)   Appoint department managers with approval of the Mayor and Council;
      (4)   Appoint other city employees;
      (5)   Suspend or dismiss department managers with approval of the Mayor
and Council;
      (6)   Suspend or dismiss other city employees;
      (7)   Prepare a proposed annual operating budget and submit the proposed
budget to the Mayor and Council for review and consideration;
      (8)   Have responsibility for administration of annual operating budget
after adoption;
      (9)   Prepare an annually updated five year capital program and budget;
      (10)   Recommend and administer personnel policies, classification,
compensation and evaluation policies for all city employees;
      (11)   Monitor the financial condition of the city, estimate present and
future financial means;
      (12)   Prepare monthly reports on financial activities;
      (13)   Prepare monthly reports on administrative activities;
      (14)   Combine or consolidate job positions within departments as
necessary or prudent to maximize manpower utilization and efficiency;
      (15)   Recommend and administer policies governing purchasing procedures
and inventory control;
      (16)   Authorize the purchase of services, material and equipment which
do not require the taking of bids, provided that the items are appropriated in
the annual operating budget, capital improvements budget or revenue sharing
budget;
      (17)   Authorize shifts in departmental budget line items provided
overall departmental appropriations do not change;
      (18)   Investigate complaints concerning administrative matters and
personnel performance;
      (19)   Prepare and submit to the Mayor and City Council at the end of
each fiscal year a complete annual report on the finances and administrative
activities of the city; and
      (20)   Provide the Mayor and City Council with information, data and
leadership in matters of policy determination. In this area, the Administrator
shall take an active role in the pursuance of grants and other monies for
municipal use.
   (B)   Delegate to other administrative officers subject to the
Administrator's direction and supervision, the authority to exercise specific
duties and responsibilities as may be considered appropriate.
(1985 Code, § 2-103)
CITY CLERK
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; TERM; SALARY AS FIXED.
   A City Clerk shall be appointed by the City Council, and, shall hold office
indefinitely or until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. The Clerk
shall receive the amount of salary as is prescribed by the annual budget
ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 2-110)
§ 32.21 BOND.
   The City Clerk, prior to entering upon the performance of the duties of the
office, shall enter into a bond with good and sufficient surety, conditioned
for the faithful and honest performance of the duties of the office. The cost
of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-111)
§ 32.22 SUBJECT TO ORDERS, DIRECTIONS AND THE LIKE.
   The City Clerk shall be subject to the orders and directions of the City
Council and the City Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 2-112)
§ 32.23 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of City Council (either physically or by
telephonic or other electronic means);
   (B)   Take minutes thereof, and record the same in a suitable book, and keep
an index book in connection therewith, in which shall be indexed the subject
matter of important matters in the proceedings of Council, with a reference to
the page of the record book where the matters appear;
   (C)   Lay before the Council all communications and other papers addressed
to it through the Clerk;
   (D)   Have the proceedings of Council promptly published in a local
newspaper when so required by Council;
   (E)   Have charge of and be responsible for the preservation of all papers,
records and documents of every description pertaining to the city;
   (F)   So arrange and file all the papers in packages or cases as will
facilitate access to them, arranging and filing same according to their subject
matter and numbering the packages or cases numerically;
   (G)   Keep an index book, in which shall be entered alphabetically the names
or subject matter of the papers and documents, and the number of the package or
case in which the same are to be found;
   (H)   Issue all notices, personal and general, which the interest,
convenience, laws and orders of the city require in the administration of its
government; and
   (I)   Communicate to the Council all information the officer may acquire
which may contribute to the efficiency of the government and the welfare of the
people.
(1985 Code, § 2-113) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 32.24 SIGNING AND ATTESTING ORDINANCES AND OTHER DOCUMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall sign and attest all ordinances, deeds, contracts and
other documents.
(1985 Code, § 2-114)
§ 32.25 KEEPING THE ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The City Clerk shall keep an ordinance book as a permanent record and shall
enter therein a copy of all ordinances enacted by the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-115)
§ 32.26 REMOVAL OF PAPERS OR DOCUMENTS FROM CLERK’S CUSTODY.
   No original paper or document of the city shall be taken out of the custody
of the City Clerk, except upon order of the Mayor or City Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 2-116)
§ 32.27 CUSTODIAN OF SEAL.
   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the City Seal.
(1985 Code, § 2-117)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 32.45 APPOINTMENT.
   A City Attorney shall be appointed by the City Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-130)
§ 32.46 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Attorney shall possess the qualifications of and be a practicing
attorney duly licensed in the state.
(1985 Code, § 2-131)
§ 32.47 TERM.
   The City Attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council or until a
successor has been duly appointed and shall have qualified.
(1985 Code, § 2-132)
§ 32.48 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Attorney shall discharge all duties prescribed by the laws of the
state and shall exercise diligence that the City Council and the officers of
the city government do not fall into errors of law in the management of the
corporate affairs of the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-133)
§ 32.49 DUTY TO ATTEND COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The City Attorney shall attend meetings (either physically or by telephonic
or other electronic means) of City Council when notified.
(1985 Code, § 2-134) (Ord. 2021-024, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 32.50 DUTY TO ADVISE AND ASSIST MAYOR, COUNCIL AND CITY OFFICERS.
   When requested, the City Attorney shall give advice, direction and
assistance to the Mayor, City Council, standing committees and special
committees and all other officers duly charged with the administration of the
city government. The City Attorney shall likewise advise and assist the police
officers in the performance of their duties.
(1985 Code, § 2-135)
§ 32.51 PROSECUTION AND DEFENSE OF ACTIONS; APPEARANCE IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
   The City Attorney shall prosecute and defend all civil actions in which the
city may be a party and shall prosecute on behalf of the city, all criminal
cases in the Municipal Court whenever requested to do so by the Mayor or
Council. The City Attorney shall appear on behalf of the city and its officers
in all legal proceedings to which any have an interest as an official of the
city.
(1985 Code, § 2-136)
§ 32.52 DRAFTING ORDINANCES AND INSTRUMENTS; LEGAL CORRESPONDENCE.
   The City Attorney, when directed by the Council, shall prepare the draft of
any ordinance or instrument in writing which the Mayor or Council may desire,
and shall conduct the correspondence of the city on all legal subjects.
(1985 Code, § 2-137)
§ 32.53 SALARY AS FIXED.
   The salary of the City Attorney shall be provided by the City Council in the
annual appropriation ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 2-138)
CHAPTER 33: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Administration Department
   
33.001   Composition
   
33.002   Compensation
   
33.003   Finance Director; appointment
   
33.004   Duties and powers
   
33.005   Chain-of-command
   
33.006   Property of Department
Police Department
   
33.020   Composition
   
33.021   Appointment
   
33.022   Term of office
   
33.023   Compensation as filed
   
33.024   Removal or suspension
   
33.025   Uniforms and equipment
   
33.026   Powers generally
   
33.027   Power to arrest
   
33.028   Authority of Chief of Police over Department; generally
   
33.029   Duties and responsibilities of the Chief of Police
   
33.030   Sale of abandoned or stolen property
   
33.031   Chain-of-command
   
33.032   Orders and communications
   
33.033   Obedience to Chief
   
33.034   Supervision by Chief
   
33.035   Duties of police officers
   
33.036   Personal appearance
   
33.037   Drinking on duty
   
33.038   General demeanor
   
33.039   Off-duty conduct
Fire Department
   
33.055   Composition
   
33.056   Appointment of Fire Chief
   
33.057   Duties and powers of the Fire Chief; generally
   
33.058   Duties of Assistant Chief; chain-of-command
   
33.059   Reserved
   
33.060   Reserved
   
33.061   Uniforms and equipment of Fire Department personnel
   
33.062   Compensation as fixed
   
33.063   Firefighter’s Insurance and Inspection Fund; acceptance of benefits
   
33.064   Trustees
   
33.065   Report to State Insurance Commissioner
   
33.066   Membership in State Firefighter’s Association
   
33.067   Receipt and disbursement of funds
Department of Public Works
   
33.080   Composition
   
33.081   Compensation as fixed
   
33.082   Director of Public Works; appointment
   
33.083   Duties and powers
   
33.084   Chain-of-command
   
33.085   Property of Department
Cultural Arts Commission
   
33.100   Purpose
   
33.101   Responsibilities
   
33.102   Composition and functions
Accommodations Tax Committee
   
33.120   Purpose
   
33.121   Definitions
   
33.122   Composition and functions
ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT
§ 33.001 COMPOSITION.
   There shall be an Administration Department of the city which is responsible
for the proper collection, accounting and distribution of the funds of the city
as well as all administrative functions as assigned by City Council from time
to time. The Administration Department shall consist of one director and other
personnel as, from time to time, may be deemed necessary to ensure the proper
custody of the city funds as well as to collect taxes, business licenses,
permits, fees and the like, and administer the same for the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-150)
§ 33.002 COMPENSATION.
   The Finance Director and other Department personnel shall be compensated in
accordance with the city and Compensation Plan as determined by annual
budgetary appropriations.
(1985 Code, § 2-151)
§ 33.003 FINANCE DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   The Finance Director shall be appointed by the City Administrator with the
advice and consent of the Mayor and City Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-152)
§ 33.004 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall be personally responsible for the
collection, accounting and distribution of all city funds. The Finance Director
shall promptly execute all orders and observe all regulations prescribed by the
city and shall be responsible for ensuring that all orders and regulations are
obeyed and carried out. The Finance Director shall be directly responsible and
accountable to the City Administrator for the organization, direction,
efficiency, training, discipline and morale of the Administration Department.
   (B)   The Finance Director shall assume the duties of Inspector for the
Department unless the Director shall appoint a competent employee of the
Department to act as Inspector.
   (C)   The Finance Director shall ensure that all books, records and reports
are maintained according to current applicable federal, state and municipal
laws.
   (D)   The Finance Director shall report annually, in writing, to the City
Administrator, setting forth the conditions and activities of the Department.
The Director shall periodically report to the City Administrator on the matters
as the City Administrator may deem necessary.
   (E)   The Finance Director shall submit to the City Administrator an annual
estimate of budgetary and other fiscal requirements of the Department.
(1985 Code, § 2-153)
§ 33.005 CHAIN-OF-COMMAND.
   The chain-of-command of the Administration Department shall be as follows:
   (A)   City council (the whole Council);
   (B)   The Mayor (Chief Executive Officer);
   (C)   The City Administrator (Chief Administrative Officer);
   (D)   The Finance Director;
   (E)   Supervisory personnel; and
   (F)   General employees.
(1985 Code, § 2-154)
§ 33.006 PROPERTY OF DEPARTMENT.
   All property acquired by the Administration Department and issued to any
personnel of the Department shall remain the property of the city, and shall be
returned to the city whenever its return is requested by the Director or the
City Administrator. It shall be unlawful to refuse to return the property when
duly requested. Refusal to return the property when duly requested shall be
deemed a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99 upon conviction.
(1985 Code, § 2-155) Penalty, see §
10.99
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.020 COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department shall consist of one Chief and other personnel as,
from time to time, may be deemed necessary for the safety and good order of the
city.
(1985 Code, § 2-170)
§ 33.021 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Chief. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the City
Administrator with the advice and consent of the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   Other police officers. The other police officers of the Department
shall be appointed by the City Administrator upon the recommendation of the
Chief of Police.
(1985 Code, § 2-171)
§ 33.022 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Each police officer appointed by the city shall serve and continue to serve
for so long a period as the officer shall perform, the duties of the office and
shall not violate any rule, regulation or policy of the Department or of the
city.
(1985 Code, § 2-172)
§ 33.023 COMPENSATION AS FILED.
   The compensation for the services of each Police Department employee shall
be set in accordance with the city pay and Compensation Plan, within the
limitations of the annual appropriations for the Police Department.
(1985 Code, § 2-173)
§ 33.024 REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION.
   All Police Department employees are subject to removal or suspension in
accordance with the City Personnel Policy and Procedures Manual.
(1985 Code, § 2-174)
§ 33.025 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police and all police officers
shall each be initially outfitted with a complete set of uniforms and
equipment. Any replacements will be furnished at the city's expense as deemed
necessary.
   (B)   All property issued to the Chief of Police, the Assistant Chief of
Police and police officers shall remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the city whenever it is requested by the City Council. Refusal to
return the property when duly requested shall be a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 2-175)
§ 33.026 POWERS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Each police officer shall be sworn in and thereupon shall be invested
with all the powers of police officers as established by S.C. Code § 5-7-110,
as amended, within the corporate limits of the city and its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Each police officer shall also have the power to carry out all duties
assigned to the officer by statute, ordinance, resolution, directive, rule or
regulation as is necessary, specifically or by implication.
(1985 Code, § 2-176)
§ 33.027 POWER TO ARREST.
   Every police officer, when required by state statute or ordinance of the
city, shall have the power and the duty to arrest any person, who, within the
corporate limits of the city and its police jurisdiction, shall be guilty of,
or shall be engaged in, any conduct which is in violation of any state law or
municipal ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 2-177)
§ 33.028 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE OVER DEPARTMENT; GENERALLY.
   Subject to pertinent laws and regulations, the Chief of Police shall have
authority over all units of the city Police Department and over all of its
members and employees. The Chief of Police may also promulgate to the
Department the orders or instructions, written or oral, which are not
inconsistent with state laws or municipal ordinances.
(1985 Code, § 2-178)
§ 33.029 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be personally responsible to the City
Administrator for the execution of the police mission. The Chief shall promptly
execute an order and observe all regulations prescribed by the City
Administrator and shall be responsible that all orders and regulations are
obeyed and carried out.
   (B)   The Chief shall be directly and personally responsible to the City
Administrator for the organization, efficiency, training, discipline and morale
of the Police Department.
   (C)   The Chief shall keep the officer's office open and operating during
the time prescribed by the City Administrator.
   (D)   The Chief shall ascertain that the operation of the Police Department
and any special units under the Chief’s direct control mutually support one
another in all matters requiring support and that a high degree of lateral
cooperation and exchange of information is maintained.
   (E)   The Chief shall ascertain that all books and records are kept in
accordance with current applicable federal, state and municipal laws as
required for the proper performance of the Police Department.
   (F)   The Chief shall report annually in writing to the City Administrator,
setting forth the conditions and activities of the Police Department. The Chief
shall periodically report to the City Administrator on the matters as the City
Administrator may deem necessary. The Chief shall submit to the City
Administrator an annual estimate of budgetary and other fiscal requirements of
the Police Department.
(1985 Code, § 2-179)
§ 33.030 SALE OF ABANDONED OR STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may sell at public auction any recovered stolen
property. The true owner of which cannot be ascertained after reasonable
effort, and may also sell at public auction the property as may have been
abandoned within the city where the true owner cannot be ascertained after
reasonable effort. The Chief of Police shall make a diligent effort to
ascertain the true owner of any abandoned or recovered stolen property and
shall advertise the property with the full description thereof in a newspaper
having general circulation in the city at least two times prior to the sale.
   (B)   At any time after 60 days shall have elapsed after the insertion of
the first advertisement, the Chief may sell at public auction the abandoned or
recovered stolen property in question. The Chief shall turn over all proceeds
to the City Treasurer.
   (C)   At any time within one year after the sale of any abandoned or
recovered stolen property, the true owner may apply to the Chief of Police, and
after proper identification and proof of claim, recover the net sum received
from the sale, after the necessary expenses are deducted. The property itself
may be recovered after proper identification and proof of claim if the claim is
made prior to the sale. After the lapse of one year after the sale, the net sum
received from the abandoned property shall be placed in the general fund of the
city.
(1985 Code, § 2-180)
§ 33.031 CHAIN-OF-COMMAND.
   The chain-of-command and lines of authority shall be explicit as follows:
   (A)   The whole Council;
   (B)   The Mayor (Chief Executive Officer);
   (C)   The City Administrator (Chief Administrative Officer);
   (D)   The Chief of Police;
   (E)   The Assistant Chief of Police;
   (F)   Command officers (lieutenant and above);
   (G)   Supervisory officers (corporals and sergeants); and
   (H)   Patrol personnel.
(1985 Code, § 2-181)
§ 33.032 ORDERS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   All orders, directions and communications shall be in accordance with
the chain-of-command and shall not be contravened by anyone.
   (B)   No police officer shall be given an order except by the officer's
immediate superiors unless there is a recognized emergency and the supervisory
officers are absent or unavailable.
(1985 Code, § 2-182)
§ 33.033 OBEDIENCE TO CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police at all times shall be recognized and respected by
each member of the Department as the member's commander and superior officer.
   (B)   All disregard, inattention or disobedience of the proper general or
special orders of the Chief shall be reported to the Chief of Police for the
Chief's action as determined by this subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 2-183)
§ 33.034 SUPERVISION BY CHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to properly distribute to
the members of the Department over the city in such manner as to obtain the
best results and most efficient service.
   (B)   The Chief shall initiate the programs as will provide the Chief with
information and reports, and the Chief shall maintain regular contact with the
police personnel.
(1985 Code, § 2-184)
§ 33.035 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of each police officer to arrest and/or report any
person for violating in any manner the laws or ordinances of the city, and
failure or neglect to do so shall make the officer liable to suspension or
discharge.
(1985 Code, § 2-185)
§ 33.036 PERSONAL APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Each police officer on duty shall maintain an appearance of neatness,
cleanliness and dignity. The officer's hair shall be trimmed neatly, face
shaved, body clean and nails pared.
   (B)   Each police officer shall be in uniform as the officer's duties shall
dictate and in keeping with the provisions of the Department, the officer shall
keep the uniform clean, pressed and in good repair, metal and shoes cleaned and
polished, and arms and equipment clean and in good working order.
(1985 Code, § 2-186)
§ 33.037 DRINKING ON DUTY.
   No member of the Department on duty shall partake of any drink of any kind
which shall contain alcohol or other intoxicating liquor, except as may be
required in the line of duty.
(1985 Code, § 2-187)
§ 33.038 GENERAL DEMEANOR.
   Each member of the Police Department at all times shall conduct the person's
self in a quiet and orderly manner and with a deliberate and efficient
determination of enforcing the laws and ordinances of the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-188)
§ 33.039 OFF-DUTY CONDUCT.
   Each police officer while off-duty shall conduct the person's self in the
manner as to command the respect of the city. The officer shall wear no uniform
or part thereof while off duty unless the officer obtains permission in writing
from the Chief of Police.
(1985 Code, § 2-189)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.055 COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of one Chief and the other personnel as,
from time to time, may be deemed necessary for the safety and good order of the
city.
(1985 Code, § 2-200)
Statutory reference:
   Fire Department, see S.C. Code §§ 5-25-20 et seq.
§ 33.056 APPOINTMENT OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the City Administrator with the advice
and consent of the Mayor and City Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Chief, see S.C. Code § 5-25-110
§ 33.057 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FIRE CHIEF; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be personally responsible for the execution of
the fire safety mission of the city, and shall promptly execute all orders and
observe all regulations prescribed by the city and shall be responsible for
ensuring that all the orders and regulations are obeyed and carried out. The
Fire Chief shall be directly responsible and accountable to the City
Administrator for the organization, direction, efficiency, training, discipline
and morale of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have complete control of operations and
activities at the scene of a fire, and control of the investigation of the
cause, origin and circumstances of fires.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall assume the duties of Fire Inspector unless the
Chief shall appoint a competent employee of the Fire Department to act as Fire
Inspector.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall ensure that all books, records and reports are
maintained according to current applicable federal, state and municipal laws.
   (E)   The Fire Chief shall report annually, in writing, to the City
Administrator, setting forth the conditions and activities of the Fire
Department. The Fire Chief shall periodically report to the City Administrator
on the matters as the City Administrator may deem necessary.
   (F)   The Fire Chief shall submit to the City Administrator an annual
estimate of budgetary and other fiscal requirements of the Fire Department.
(1985 Code, § 2-202)
§ 33.058 DUTIES OF ASSISTANT CHIEF; CHAIN-OF-COMMAND.
   (A)   In the absence of the Chief, it shall be the duty of the Assistant
Chief to take command and assume control of the operations of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The chain-of-command of the Fire Department shall be as follows:
      (1)   The Council assembled;
      (2)   The Mayor (Chief Executive Officer);
      (3)   The City Administrator (Chief Administrative Officer);
      (4)   The Fire Chief;
      (5)   Assistant Fire Chief;
      (6)   Command officers (captains, lieutenants and above);
      (7)   Supervisory personnel (engineers); and
      (8)   Firefighters.
(1985 Code, § 2-203)
§ 33.059 RESERVED.
§ 33.060 RESERVED.
§ 33.061 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT OF FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief and regular firefighters shall
each be furnished, during their term of office, with uniforms of the type and
color as may be prescribed from time to time.
   (B)   All property issued by the city to any firefighters shall remain the
property of the city and shall be returned to the city whenever its return is
requested by the Fire Chief or the City Administrator. It shall be unlawful to
refuse to return the property when duly requested. Refusal to return the
property when duly requested shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 2-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.062 COMPENSATION AS FIXED.
   The Fire Chief and other regular Fire Department personnel shall be
compensated in accordance with the city pay and Compensation Plan as determined
by annual budgetary appropriations.
(1985 Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 2025-005, passed 1-14-2025)
§ 33.063 FIREFIGHTER’S INSURANCE AND INSPECTION FUND; ACCEPTANCE OF BENEFITS.
   The city hereby accepts the benefits of S.C. Code §§ 38-57-10 through 38-57-
210, as amended, relative to disposition of funds arising from insurance
companies doing business in the state.
(1985 Code, § 2-208)
§ 33.064 TRUSTEES.
   The Mayor, the City Administrator and the Chief of the Fire Department are
to be appointed trustees of the Firefighter's Insurance and Inspection Fund,
and they shall have control thereof and direct its disbursement under the rules
and regulations as may be adopted by them in accordance with state law. All
trustees shall serve without compensation.
(1985 Code, § 2-209)
Statutory reference:
   Trustees, see S.C. Code §§ 38-57-10 et seq.
§ 33.065 REPORT TO STATE INSURANCE COMMISSIONER.
   The City Clerk shall file with the State Insurance Commissioner on or before
October 31 of each year on a form furnished by the Commissioner, a certificate
that the city has an organized Fire Department and also a list of the equipment
and other facts that may be required. Failure to submit the certificate by the
required date in any year will constitute a waiver of rights in the fund for
that year.
(1985 Code, § 2-210)
§ 33.066 MEMBERSHIP IN STATE FIREFIGHTER’S ASSOCIATION.
   The city shall be a member of the State Firefighter’s Association as
required for participation in the Firefighter’s Insurance and Inspection Fund.
The city shall pay to the treasurer of the State Firefighter's Association, 5%
of the gross proceeds received annually from the 1% tax on fire insurance
allocated to the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-211)
§ 33.067 RECEIPT AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   General. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to receive the
benefits of the Firefighter's Insurance and Inspection Fund from the County
Treasurer via the State Treasurer. All money so collected shall be set apart
and shall be paid out only upon the orders of the Board of Trustees under the
rules and regulations adopted by it.
   (B)   Disbursements over $100. Before any disbursements exceeding $100 of
the fund shall be made by the Finance Director of the city, the Finance
Director shall first submit to the supervising trustees of the State
Firefighter's Association, a statement of how the funds are to be expended and
shall receive from the trustees their written approval of the manner and method
by which the funds are to be disbursed. If a proposed disbursement is to be
expended legally and in accordance with the law, it shall be mandatory upon the
supervising trustees to give their approval. Failure on the part of the Finance
Director to comply with the foregoing shall make the Finance Director liable on
the officer's official bond.
   (C)   Use of funds. No funds of the Firefighter's Insurance and Inspection
Fund shall be divided among Fire Department personnel in cash. When the Fire
Department, by a majority, shall provide for the expenditure of any funds for
the collective benefit and enjoyment of the entire Department, it shall be
mandatory for the local trustees and the state trustees of the State
Firefighter's Association to approve the expenditure. None of the funds shall
be expended in any manner for any purpose for which the city may be legally
liable.
(1985 Code, § 2-212)
Statutory reference:
   Disbursements, see S.C. Code § 38-57-210
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 33.080 COMPOSITION.
   The Department of Public Works shall consist of a Director and other
personnel as from time to time may be deemed necessary to ensure a water supply
system for domestic and fire suppression purposes, provide for the collection
and removal of household refuse, the maintenance of storm water structures,
streets and sidewalks of the city and all other functions as assigned by City
Council from time to time, within the city.
(1985 Code, § 2-220) (Ord. 94-006, passed 10-11-1994)
§ 33.081 COMPENSATION AS FIXED.
   The Director of Public Works and other Department personnel shall be
compensated in accordance with the city pay and Compensation Plan as determined
by annual budgetary appropriations.
(1985 Code, § 2-221)
§ 33.082 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the City Administrator
with the advice and consent of the Mayor and City Council.
(1985 Code, § 2-222)
§ 33.083 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works shall be personally responsible for the
installation, operation, maintenance and good order of the water system of the
city, the collection and removal of household refuse, the maintenance of storm
water structures, streets and sidewalks of the city and all other functions as
are assigned from time to time. The Director shall promptly execute all orders
and observe all regulations prescribed by the city and shall be responsible for
ensuring that all orders and regulations are obeyed and carried out. The
Director shall be directly responsible and accountable to the City
Administrator for the organization, direction, efficiency, training, discipline
and morale of the Department of Public Works.
   (B)   The Director shall assume the duties of Inspector for the Department
unless the Director shall appoint a competent employee of the Department to act
as Inspector.
   (C)   The Director shall ensure that all books, records and reports are
maintained according to current, applicable federal, state and municipal laws.
   (D)   The Director shall report annually, in writing, to the City
Administrator, setting forth the conditions and activities of the Department.
The Director shall periodically report to the City Administrator on the matters
as the City Administrator may deem necessary.
   (E)   The Director shall submit to the City Administrator an annual estimate
of budgetary and other fiscal requirements of the Department of Public Works.
(1985 Code, § 2-223) (Ord. 94-006, passed 10-11-1994)
§ 33.084 CHAIN-OF-COMMAND.
   The chain-of-command of the Department of Public Works shall be as follows:
   (A)   City Council (the whole Council);
   (B)   The Mayor (Chief Executive Officer);
   (C)   The City Administrator (Chief Administrative Officer);
   (D)   The Director of Public Works;
   (E)   Supervisory personnel; and
   (F)   General employees.
(1985 Code, § 2-224)
§ 33.085 PROPERTY OF DEPARTMENT.
   All property acquired by the Department of Public Works and issued to any
personnel of the Department shall remain the property of the city, and shall be
returned to the city whenever its return is requested by the Director or the
City Administrator. It shall be unlawful to refuse to return the property when
duly requested. Refusal to return the property when duly requested shall be
deemed a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 2-225) Penalty, see §
10.99
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION
§ 33.100 PURPOSE.
   To enrich the lives of citizens and to attract visitors and catalyze tourism
and economic development by advising and assisting the city regarding the
provision of artistic and cultural events, projects or initiatives.
(Ord. 18-031, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 33.101 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The duties of the Commission may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Researching, creating and recommending cultural and artistic events,
projects or initiatives for both individuals and groups in the Goose Creek
community;
   (B)   Assisting city staff in the preparation and execution of cultural and
artistic events, projects or initiatives designed to showcase the cultural and
artistic diversity of the city and its residents;
   (C)   Advising city staff on matters of artistic interpretation and
evaluation; and
   (D)   Serving as ambassadors for the city within the cultural arts community
in order to recruit art and artists to participate in city events, projects or
initiatives.
(Ord. 18-031, passed 12-11-2018)
§ 33.102 COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS.
   The Cultural Arts Commission shall consist of seven members, of which five
shall be citizens of the city and two may be citizens of the Goose Creek
Recreation Special Purpose Tax District or owners of a business located within
the city limits of Goose Creek, and who shall be appointed by City Council to
serve two-year terms at the pleasure of City Council. The terms commence on the
day of the appointment and continue for two years or until City Council
appoints a replacement.
(Ord. 18-031, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-022, passed 8-10-2021)
ACCOMMODATIONS TAX COMMITTEE
§ 33.120 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A municipality receiving more than $50,000 in revenue from the
accommodations tax in county areas collecting more than $50,000 shall appoint
an advisory committee to make recommendations on the expenditure of revenue
generated from the accommodations tax.
   (B)   The Goose Creek Accommodations Tax Committee shall submit written
recommendations to the city at least once annually. The recommendations must be
considered by the city in conjunction with the Act.
(Ord. 2024-015, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 33.121 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context shall clearly indicate some other meaning, the terms
defined in this section shall, for all purposes of this subchapter herein or
therein mentioned, have the meanings herein specified, with the definitions to
be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of any of the terms
herein defined and vice versa.
   ACT. S.C. Code § 6-4-25, 1976 (being the Allocation of Accommodations Tax
Revenues Law), as amended from time to time.
   CITY. City of Goose Creek, South Carolina.
(Ord. 2024-015, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 33.122 COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The Accommodations Tax Committee shall consist of seven members with a
majority being selected from the hospitality industry of the city. At least two
of the hospitality industry members must be from the lodging industry where
applicable. One member shall represent the cultural organizations of the city.
The members shall be appointed by City Council to serve four-year terms at the
pleasure of City Council. The terms commence on the day of the appointment and
continue for four years or longer until City Council appoints a replacement.
   (B)   The city shall annually submit to the South Carolina Accommodations
Tax Oversight Committee:
      (1)   City’s end-of-the-year report detailing advisory committee
accommodations tax recommendations;
      (2)   City’s action following the recommendations;
      (3)   List of how funds from the accommodations tax are spent, except for
the first $25,000 and 5% of the balance in S.C. Code § 6-4-10(2) of the Act
allocated to the general fund. The list is due before October 1 and must
include funds received and dispersed during the previous year; and
      (4)   List of advisory committee members noting the chairperson, business
address if applicable, and representation of the hospitality industry including
the lodging industry and cultural interest.
   (C)   The regional tourism agencies in S.C. Code § 6-4-20 of the Act
annually shall submit reports on their budgets and annual expenditure of
accommodations tax funds pursuant to this subchapter to the Accommodations Tax
Oversight Committee.
(Ord. 2024-015, passed 10-8-2024)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Fiscal year; budget and taxation
   
34.02   Ad valorem tax homestead exemption
   
34.03   Travel expense; policy statement
   
34.04   Methods of payment
   
34.05   Recovery of collection costs as a part of delinquent debts collected
pursuant to the Setoff Debt Collection Act
   
34.06   Master Fee Schedule
Purchasing Policies and Procedures
   
34.20   Definitions
   
34.21   Purpose
   
34.22   Exemptions
   
34.23   Duties of purchasing agent
   
34.24   Procedural regulations
   
34.25   Emergency purchases
   
34.26   Requisitions and estimates of future requirements
   
34.27   Contracts, purchases and sales
   
34.28   Open market purchases and sales
   
34.29   Local preference policy
   
34.30   Request for qualifications
   
34.31   Request for proposals
   
34.32   Purchases of patented or proprietary articles
   
34.33   Project delivery methods
   
34.34   Availability of funds
   
34.35   Splitting requirements; illegal purchases
   
34.36   Gratuities
   
34.37   Debarment of irresponsible bidders
   
34.38   Inspection
   
34.39   Surplus, obsolete and waste commodities
   
34.40   Approval by City Council of contracts over $25,000; exemptions and
prior approvals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET AND TAXATION.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on January 1 of each year and shall
end on December 31 in each year. Prior to the commencement of the fiscal year,
City Council shall adopt an annual operating budget, by ordinance, which
provides for the collection of revenues and payment of expenses for the
operation and debt retirement of the city. The budget ordinance shall set the
annual ad valorem tax rate and provide for the procedure for the collection of
the ad valorem taxes. The city may contract for the collection of ad valorem
taxes and adopt the procedures for collection, delinquencies and penalties of
the collecting agency, by reference, in the budget ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 86-21, passed 8-12-1986)
§ 34.02 AD VALOREM TAX HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION.
   Those persons eligible for homestead exemption in accordance with S.C. Code
§ 12-37-250, as amended, and not in amounts exceeding those provided in that
section, shall be eligible for a homestead exemption from municipal ad valorem
taxes on real property in the city.
(1985 Code, § 9-2)
Editor's note:
   City ad valorem taxes are assessed and collected by the county, as provided
by state law
§ 34.03 TRAVEL EXPENSE; POLICY STATEMENT.
   The Mayor and City Council recognize that travel and attendance at
conferences and meetings is necessary and desirable in the proper and official
pursuit of city business. In furtherance of this policy statement, the
following constitutes the travel policy of the city.
   (A)   Approval of travel and attendance at conferences and meetings. Travel
and attendance at conferences and meetings relating to official city business
by the Mayor and members of City Council shall have the prior approval of the
Mayor and City Council. Travel and attendance at conferences relating to
official city business by city employees shall have the prior approval of the
City Administrator, consistent with budgetary allocations for travel.
   (B)   Payment of expenses for travel and attendance at conferences and
meetings. The city will make payment for actual expenses incurred by City
Council and city employees for travel and attendance at conferences and
meetings. Expenses of spouses and family members attending the conferences and
meetings shall be the responsibility of the individual city official or
employee. The city will not pay for expenses incurred by spouses or family
members attending the conferences or meetings.
   (C)   Travel expenses eligible for payment.
      (1)   The city will pay for actual air or rail transportation, cab fares
to and from airports, hotel or motel room costs, conference registration fees,
meals and incidentals relating to approved travel.
      (2)   The use of city vehicles for travel is authorized if it is less
expensive to use a city vehicle than travel by air or rail service, provided
time constraints are not a factor in the travel.
      (3)   The use of a personal vehicle, at a reimbursement rate provided by
I.R.S. regulation, is authorized if the use is less expensive than the use of a
city vehicle, or a city vehicle is not available, or the use is less expensive
than air or rail service, provided time constraints are not a factor in travel.
(1985 Code, § 9-3)
§ 34.04 METHODS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Advances for travel. The City Administrator may issue advance funds
for travel upon the presentation of an estimated itemized expense sheet by a
city official or employee prior to receiving any advance funds for approved
travel. Upon completion of the approved travel, the city official or employee
shall submit an itemized expense sheet of actual costs, with receipts, to the
City Administrator and return any unused funds to the city.
   (B)   Use of city credit card. When it is possible, city officials and
employees shall use city credit cards for payment of actual costs associated
with approved travel. All receipts arising from the use of a city credit card
shall be submitted to the City Administrator immediately upon returning from
approved travel.
   (C)   Reimbursement. City officials and employees may be reimbursed for
actual costs incurred for approved travel upon submitting a detailed and
itemized expense sheet, supported by proper receipts, to the City
Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 9-4)
§ 34.05 RECOVERY OF COLLECTION COSTS AS A PART OF DELINQUENT DEBTS COLLECTED
PURSUANT TO THE SETOFF DEBT COLLECTION ACT.
   (A)   The City of Goose Creek may impose a collection cost of up to $25 to
defray its internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that are
sought to be collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt Collection
Act, S.C. Code Ann. §§ 12-56-10 et seq. This cost is hereby declared to be a
collection cost that arises by operation of law and shall be added to the
delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
   (B)   The City of Goose Creek hereby declares that the administrative fee
charged by the Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection
cost to the city, which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and
recovered from the debtor.
   (C)   All ordinances in conflict with this section are hereby repealed.
   (D)   This section shall be effective on the date of final reading, provided
however, that this section is declared to be consistent with prior law and
practice and shall not be construed to mean that any fees previously charged to
debtors as costs of collection under the Act were not properly authorized or
properly charged to the debtor.
(Ord. 18-026, 11-13-2018)
§ 34.06 MASTER FEE SCHEDULE.
   All current fees and charges as they relate to the Master Fee Schedule shall
be on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-026, passed 11-9-2021)
PURCHASING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 34.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY, USING AGENCY. Any of the departments, offices or other
organizational units of the city government.
   BIDDERS LIST. A current file of sources of supply for articles repetitively
purchased for city use.
   CONSTRUCTION MANAGER-AT-RISK SERVICES. A project delivery method in which
the city awards separate contracts, one for design services to design a project
and the second to a construction manager at-risk for both construction of the
project according to the design and construction management services, which
include but are not limited to those professional services associated with
contract administration, project management, and other services provided in
connection with the administration of a construction project.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. Any telephone, electric light and power services,
towels, window washing and cleaning services, the rental of equipment and
machinery and other types of agreements under which the contractor provides
services which are required by the city government, but not furnished by city
employees. CONTRACTUAL SERVICES do not include legal advertising, and purchases
of space for legal advertising shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   DEFINITE QUANTITY CONTRACTS. A contract whereby a contractor agrees to
furnish a specified quantity of supplies, materials or equipment at a specified
time.
   DESIGN-BUILD SERVICES. A method of construction or construction contract
management in which a single entity (or group of associated entities) provides
to the city all or substantially all of the services necessary to both design
and construct a project.
   INDEFINITE QUANTITY CONTRACTS. A contract whereby the city agrees to obtain
from a contractor all its requirements for specified supplies, materials or
equipment in an estimated, but undetermined, amount during a prescribed period
of time at a definite unit price or at a specified discount from list or posted
price.
   IRRESPONSIBLE BIDDER. A bidder who fails to furnish, upon written request,
proof of responsibility, who has, as a vendor or contractor with the city,
repeatedly made slow or unsatisfactory deliveries, or who has violated, or
attempted to violate, the provisions of this chapter.
   PRICE AGREEMENTS. An agreement whereby a contractor agrees to supply the
city requirements for items, such as replacement parts for different makes of
mechanical or automotive equipment during a prescribed period of time at a
definite unit price, or at a specified discount from list or posted price.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. The services of attorneys, physicians, architects,
engineers, consultants or other individuals or organizations possessing a high
degree of technical skill and offering the services on a fee basis.
   PURCHASING AGENT. The City Administrator or other duly designated officer or
employee.
   RESPONSIBLE BIDDER. A bidder who has furnished, when requested, information
and data to prove that the bidder's financial resources, production or services
facilities, service reputation and experience are adequate to make satisfactory
delivery of supplies, materials, equipment or contractual service on which the
bidder bids and who has not violated, nor attempted to violate, any provision
of this chapter.
   SUPPLIES, MATERIAL, EQUIPMENT. Any articles or things which shall be
furnished to or used by any department, including any printing, binding or
publication of stationery, forms, laws, journals and reports.
(1985 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to secure for the city taxpayers the
advantages and economies which will result from centralized control over the
expenditure of city funds for supplies, materials, equipment and contractual
services via the application of modern, business-like methods.
(1985 Code, § 9-21) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   Certain items are exempt from certain purchasing requirements and the city
may exempt specific supplies or services from the purchasing procedures herein
required or withdraw any exemptions provided for in this section:
   (A)   Advertising, including but not limited to advertising time or space in
newspapers, on radio or television.
   (B)   Medical and/or psychological services.
   (C)   Policy, legal and utility services to include but not be limited to
attorneys, bond rating services, consultants, advisors, engineers and other
professional services.
   (D)   Staff development to include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Training provided by consultants, certified teachers/trainers;
      (2)   Training materials;
      (3)   Workshops, conferences, seminar registrations, etc.; or
      (4)   Travel.
   (E)   Utilities and energy expenses to include but not be limited to: fuel,
propane, electricity, telephone, cell phones, water/sewer.
   (F)   Financial advisors and fiduciary services.
   (G)   Emergency repairs.
   (H)   Mail and delivery services.
   (I)   Contracts for the wholesale purchase of electric service with contract
terms for less than two years.
   (J)   Contracts that are specifically approved by a city ordinance.
   (K)   Contracts that relate to regularly purchased supplies, equipment,
chemicals, or services to be used in or for the direct benefit of the city's
utilities, as they now exist or may exist in the future.
(Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 20-007, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 2021-015,
passed 6-8-2021)
§ 34.23 DUTIES OF PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The purchasing agent purchases all supplies, materials, equipment and
contractual services required by the city.
   (B)   The purchasing agent submits to the City Council for award, and
thereafter executes contracts for all purchases of supplies, materials,
equipment and contractual services in amounts or estimated amounts as
designated by City Council.
   (C)   The purchasing agent negotiates contracts for personal services and
submits them for approval and award as provided in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   The purchasing agent uses standard specifications whenever they are
applicable for purchase orders and contracts and ensures compliance with the
specifications through adequate inspection of deliveries.
   (E)   The purchasing agent may transfer between departments, supplies,
materials and equipment no longer needed by a holding department, but which can
be used by a receiving department.
   (F)   The purchasing agent exchanges, trades in or sells those supplies,
materials and equipment which are surplus, obsolete or unused and are found by
the City Council not to be required for public use.
   (G)   The purchasing agent develops, with the approval of the City Attorney
as to legal sufficiency, standard forms and conditions of invitations to bid,
purchase orders and contracts.
   (H)   The purchasing agent prescribes the use by the departments of other
forms required to carry out the provisions of this chapter, and amends or
eliminates any such forms.
   (I)   Upon request of the City Council, and subject to its approval of each
transaction, the purchasing agent performs all delegable functions in
connection with the acquisition and disposal of real property.
   (J)   The purchasing agent reduces, to the maximum extent possible, the
number of purchase transactions by combining into bulk orders and contracts the
requirements of departments for common use items repetitively purchased.
(1985 Code, § 9-22) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.24 PROCEDURAL REGULATIONS.
   The purchasing agent is hereby authorized to prepare procedural regulations
to amplify the provisions of this chapter; to submit the regulations and
amendments to the City Council for approval; and to promulgate and enforce
compliance with the regulations including, but not limited to:
   (A)   The procedure for handling bids including their custody and
safeguarding, opening and tabulation, rejection and re-advertising and the
procedure for determining the lowest responsible bidder;
   (B)   The procedure for securing from bidders the data necessary to
determine whether they are responsible;
   (C)   The procedure for inspection of deliveries of supplies, materials,
equipment and contractual services;
   (D)   The procedure for submitting requisitions for supplies, materials,
equipment and contractual services;
   (E)   The procedure for control and safeguarding of supplies, materials and
equipment in storerooms or at storage points including the maintenance of a
perpetual inventory system showing the quantitative amounts and monetary values
of the inventories; and
   (F)   The matters as may be necessary to give effect to provisions of this
chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-23) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.25 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   An emergency shall be deemed to exist when a breakdown in machinery or
in an essential service occurs, or when unforeseen circumstances arise,
including natural disasters, delays by contractors, transportation and an
unanticipated volume of work.
   (B)   If an emergency occurs during regular business hours, the department
head shall immediately notify the City Administrator who shall determine the
authorization of the necessary purchases. If the City Administrator is
unavailable, the department head shall notify the Finance Director before
making any emergency purchase. If an emergency occurs at any time other than
regular business hours, the department head may purchase directly the
commodities required, provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   When the estimated cost of the emergency purchase exceeds $999, the
department head shall, whenever possible, secure competitive telephone bids and
order delivery to be made by the lowest responsible bidder; and
      (2)   On every emergency purchase made, the department head shall, within
24 hours, submit to the City Administrator, a requisition, a tabulation of bids
received, a delivery receipt and a written explanation of the circumstances of
the emergency.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall have the authority to make emergency
purchases of up to $5,000 without securing bids. The City Administrator shall
have the authority to make emergency purchases over $5,000 without securing
bids with the approval of the Mayor. While not required in the event of an
emergency, the City Administrator shall secure bids if it is practical.
(1985 Code, § 9-24) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.26 REQUISITIONS AND ESTIMATES OF FUTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All department managers shall submit to the purchasing agent
requisitions for supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services
required for departmental operations within the limits of funds appropriated
therefor. The purchasing agent may require department managers to justify the
quantity or quality of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services
requisitioned.
   (B)   All department heads shall file with the City Administrator estimates
of their requirements for supplies, materials, equipment and contractual
services in the form, at the time and for the future periods as the City
Administrator shall prescribe.
(1985 Code, § 9-25) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.27 CONTRACTS, PURCHASES AND SALES.
   (A)   All purchases of, and contracts for, supplies, materials, equipment
and contractual services and all sales of personal property found by the City
Council not to be required for public use, shall be based, whenever possible,
on competitive bids. If the amount of the expenditure for a contractual service
or for a commodity normally obtained from the same source of supply, or for a
sale of personal property found by the City Council not to be required for
public use, is estimated to exceed $25,000, contract bids shall be solicited by
public notice and written contracts shall be awarded, except when the services
of central state purchasing are utilized. If newspaper advertisements are
employed as public notice, the notice shall include a general description of
the commodities or services to be purchased or the commodities to be sold,
shall state where contract bids and specifications may be secured, and shall
specify the time and place for opening of bids.
   (B)   The purchasing agent may, in addition, solicit bids from prospective
bidders, as listed on the bidders list, by sending them copies of the newspaper
notice or other notice as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase or
sale. All pending purchases or sales shall also, in all cases, be advertised by
posting a copy of the contract bid form on a public bulletin board in or
adjacent to the City Hall.
   (C)   (1)   All bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent on
the official contract bid form and, in an envelope which shall have indicated
thereon the class of commodities to be purchased and the established time for
opening of bids. A tabulation of all bids received, whether accepted or
rejected, shall be open for public inspection during regular business hours for
a period of not less than 30 calendar days after the bid opening.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall submit a copy of the tabulation and all
bids received to the City Council, together with the Administrator's award. The
purchasing agent may reject any or all bids for any or all commodities or
contractual services included in the bid form and may re-advertise for bids
when the public interest will be served thereby, but will report the action and
the reasons therefor to the City Council. If all bids received are for the same
total amount or unit price, and if the public interest will not permit the
delay of re-advertising for bids, the City Council may authorize the City
Administrator or purchasing agent to award the contract to one of the tie
bidders by drawing of lots in public, or to purchase the commodities or
contractual services in the open market, provided the price paid in the open
market shall not exceed the lowest contract bid price submitted for the same
commodity or contractual service. In all other cases, the contract shall be
awarded by the City Council to the lowest responsible bidder for purchases and
the highest responsible bidder for sales. In determining the lowest or highest
responsible bidder, the City Council and the purchasing agent shall take into
consideration the quality offered and its conformity with the specifications,
the delivery and discount terms and conditions of the bid, the service
reputation of the bidder and other information and data required to prove the
bidder's responsibility.
   (D)   Contracts for personal property sales shall be awarded by the City
Council to the highest responsible bidder and shall be subject to all other
applicable requirements of this section.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the purchasing agent to discourage uniform
bidding by every possible means, and to endeavor to obtain full and open
competition on all purchases and sales. Accordingly, the purchasing agent shall
require each bidder to accompany the bidder's bid with a statement made under
oath that the bidder has not been a party with other bidders to an agreement to
bid a fixed or uniform price. Violation of the statement shall render void the
bid of the bidders. Any disclosure to, or acquisition by, a competitive bidder,
in advance of the opening of the bids of the terms or conditions of the bid
submitted by another competitor shall render the proceedings void and shall
require re-advertising for bids.
   (F)   All contract forms shall be approved by the City Attorney as to
legality. All contracts shall be signed on behalf of the city by the purchasing
agent. A copy of each signed contract shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (G)   No city real property shall be sold except by ordinance of the City
Council and after the publication of the notice of sale in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale. The
notice shall contain a property description, the name of the purchaser and the
terms of and consideration for the sale.
(1985 Code, § 9-26) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.28 OPEN MARKET PURCHASES AND SALES.
   (A)   If the amount of the expenditure for a contractual service or a class
of commodities normally obtained from the same source of supply, or for a sale
of personal property found by the City Council not to be required for public
use, is estimated to be less than $25,000, it shall be an open market
transaction and shall not be subject to the requirements of § 34.27. However,
all open market transactions shall, whenever possible, be based on at least
three competitive bids.
   (B)   The purchasing agent shall solicit bids by direct mail requests to
prospective bidders for the class of commodities being purchased or sold as
listed on the bidders list, and by posting a copy of the invitation to bid on a
public bulletin board in or adjacent to the City Hall. However, bids may be
solicited by telephone for open market purchases or sales of less than $5,000.
   (C)   Written bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent in an
envelope indicating the class of commodities being purchased or sold, and the
established time for opening of the bids. All written bids shall be opened at
the time and place stated in the invitation. The purchasing agent shall make a
tabulation of all written and telephone bids, and the records shall be open to
public inspection for at least 30 days after the date of the bid opening or
telephone transaction.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if the purchase
of supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services is less than $1,000,
the City Administrator, at the Administrator's discretion only, may waive the
competitive bidding requirements of this section and may make the purchases
without calling for bids. The City Administrator shall not delegate to any
other city officer or employee the discretion of determining whether a purchase
involving an expenditure of less than $1,000 shall be based on competitive
bids. However, price and quality being equal preference shall be given to
responsible local bidders.
(1985 Code, § 9-27) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.29 LOCAL PREFERENCE POLICY.
   (A)   The city seeks to encourage the participation of local businesses to
provide goods and/or services to the city, resulting in increased economic
activity through more local jobs, tax revenues and to entice businesses to
locate in the city.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a LOCAL BUSINESS shall be defined as
follows:
      (1)   The business has established and maintained a physical presence
within the city limits via the ownership or lease of a building or portion of a
building, for a period of not less than 12 consecutive months;
      (2)   The business employs a minimum of two full time employees at the
physical location inside the city limits;
      (3)   The business has maintained a valid business license for the past
12 months;
      (4)   The business is not delinquent to the city in any payments; and
      (5)   There are no active code enforcement or planning/zoning actions
against the business.
   (C)   Local preference exemptions:
      (1)   Purchases greater than $25,000;
      (2)   The local preference policy is not applicable to contracts required
by state or federal statutes or regulations to be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder; and
      (3)   Purchases funded by outside agencies that prohibit the use of
preferences; examples include but are not limited to state or federal funding.
   (D)   A local business shall indicate on the quote or bid submission that
the business qualifies as a "local business" under this policy. The city is not
responsible for investigating whether a business qualifies as a local bidder if
the indication is not included on the submitted quote or bid.
   (E)   The preferential discount of 5% may be applied to the low bid of
"local business" when determining the lowest responsible bid. This policy
applies to the purchase of goods and services that are purchased with a total
cost of less than $25,000.
   (F)   In instances where a local business and a non-local business submit
equivalent lowest responsible bids or tie bids, the purchasing agent has the
option to give preference to the local business.
   (G)   The purchasing agent may provide the local business bidder, who is
within 5% of the lowest responsible bidder, with a notice and an opportunity to
reduce its bid to match the lowest non-local bid. Notice may be given by
telephone, in writing, or electronic mail. The local business shall have three
business days after the date of such notice to match the lowest bid in writing.
Should the local business match, it may be deemed the lowest responsible
bidder.
   (H)   No contract awarded under this section shall be assigned or
subcontracted in any manner that permits more than 50% of the dollar value of
the contract to be performed by an entity that is not a local business.
   (I)   The city shall not make any preference to local businesses that may
result in burdensome or unreasonable costs to the taxpayers nor should it
restrict the city from rejecting inferior products or services.
   (J)   The city reserves the right to waive or amend this policy when deemed
appropriate and the City Administrator has the sole and final authority to
resolve any disputes that may arise over this policy.
(Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 34.30 REQUESTS FOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   Prior to soliciting bids, the purchasing agent may issue a request for
qualifications from prospective bidders. Such request shall contain at minimum,
a description of the goods or services to be solicited by the request for
qualifications, the general scope of the work, the deadline for submission of
the information, and how the prospective bidders may apply for consideration.
The request shall require information concerning the prospective bidders'
product specifications, qualification, experience, and ability to perform the
requirements of the contract. After receipt of the responses to the request for
qualification from prospective bidders, the prospective bidders shall be ranked
from most qualified to least qualified based on the information provided by the
purchasing agent. The purchasing agent may then request formal bids from one or
more of the top ranked bidders. The failure of a prospective bidder to be
selected to receive the invitation for bids shall not be grounds for protest.
(Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 34.31 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Proposals are typically requested for goods or services that are
highly technical or complex in nature. Examples include but are not limited to
the following: professional services, legal services, architectural services,
engineering services. The use of proposals shall be determined by the
purchasing agent. The ranking of proposals shall be performed by the purchasing
agent and/or City Council. Rankings shall be based on whose proposal is the
most advantageous to the city. Price does not need to be an evaluation factor
in the determination of acceptability of the proposal; however, evaluation
factors should be stated in the request for proposals.
   (B)   Prior to soliciting proposals, and at the discretion of the purchasing
agent, a request for qualifications may be requested from prospective bidders.
(Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 34.32 PURCHASES OF PATENTED OR PROPRIETARY ARTICLES.
   (A)   When the city requires supplies, materials or equipment produced by
only one manufacturer, the purchasing agent shall specify the manufacturer's
make or brand in the invitation to bid and shall obtain competitive bids from
authorized dealers or distributors of the manufacturer. If the manufacturer is
the only bidder and only source of supply, the purchasing agent is authorized
to negotiate an open market purchase on contract with the manufacturer at
prices and on terms most advantageous to the city.
   (B)   When the city requires supplies, materials or equipment which is
patented or proprietary and which is obtainable in two or more equally
satisfactory and competitive makes, brands or types, the purchasing agent shall
list the acceptable and competitive makes, brands or types in the invitation to
bid. The lists shall also include the phrase "or equal" to permit bidders to
bid on alternate or additional makes, brands or types. It shall be incumbent on
each bidder to prove to the satisfaction of the purchasing agent that the
alternate or additional make, brand or type offered is equal in quality or
performance to those listed in the invitation to bid.
(1985 Code, § 9-28) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.33 PROJECT DELIVERY METHODS.
   (A)   The city may use a design-build contract as alternative project
delivery methods in appropriate circumstances. The City Administrator may
determine in his or her discretion the appropriate procedure is a design-build
method The purchasing agent shall advertise and seek appropriate proposals.
Because the nature of a design-build involve sometimes competing considerations
of the best design, price, and qualifications of the applicant, such delivery
methods shall not require the use of a sealed bid process and shall be based on
the total merit of the applicant's proposal. Because the nature of design build
contracts often involve permanent improvements, the purchasing agent shall
provide a summary the merits of each proposal for City Council to select the
most qualified proposal or to reject all proposals.
   (B)   The city may use the construction manager at-risk method as an
alternative delivery method in appropriate circumstances. The City
Administrator may determine in his or her sole discretion the appropriate
procedure is a construction manager at-risk method. The purchasing agent shall
advertise and seek appropriate proposals for the construction manager at-risk
method. Because the construction manager at-risk method involves competing
consideration of price and skills for a project where the design has already
been determined or will be determined by separate selection, the purchasing
agent shall determine the most qualified applicant taking into consideration
price and quality.
(Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 34.34 AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
   Except in emergencies as provided for in §
34.25, no notice of award of contract shall be issued, no contract shall be
signed and no open market purchase order shall be issued until the Finance
Director shall have certified that the unexpended balance in the budget
appropriation or appropriations concerned is sufficient to defray the amount of
the contract or purchase order.
(1985 Code, § 9-29) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.35 SPLITTING REQUIREMENTS; ILLEGAL PURCHASES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any department of the city government to
split its requirements for supplies, materials, equipment and contractual
services into estimated amounts of less than $25,000 in order to evade the
provisions of §
34.27.
   (B)   If any department of city government purchases or contracts for any
supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the purchase or contract shall be void and of no
effect. The employee making the purchase or contract shall be personally liable
for the amount of the purchase or contract, and if already paid for out of city
funds, the amount therefor may be recovered in the name of the city in an
appropriate legal action.
(1985 Code, § 9-30) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.36 GRATUITIES.
   (A)   The acceptance of any gratuity in the form of cash, merchandise or any
other thing, except those items or things of nominal value, by an official or
employee of the city from any vendor or contractor, shall be deemed a violation
of this chapter and shall be cause for removal or other disciplinary action.
   (B)   The offer of any gratuity to any official or employee of the city by
any vendor or contractor, or prospective vendor or contractor, shall be cause
for declaring the individual or firm an irresponsible bidder and debarring them
from bidding as provided by §
34.37.
(1985 Code, § 9-31) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.37 DEBARMENT OF IRRESPONSIBLE BIDDERS.
   The City Administrator may determine and declare a bidder to be
irresponsible for the reasons cited in the definition thereof in §§
34.35 and
34.36. If a bidder is determined to be irresponsible, the City Administrator
may remove the bidder from the bidder's list and may debar the bidder from
bidding for a reasonable period, but not less than one year. The debarred
bidder shall be furnished with a statement of the reason for the action.
(1985 Code, § 9-32) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.38 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The receiving department shall inspect deliveries of supplies,
materials and equipment, or the furnishing of contractual services to insure
their conformance with the specifications set forth in the purchase order or
contract.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall have the authority to require chemical
and physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries to
the extent necessary to determine their quality and conformance to the
specifications.
(1985 Code, § 9-33) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.39 SURPLUS, OBSOLETE AND WASTE COMMODITIES.
   (A)   All departments shall submit to the City Administrator, at times and
in the form as the City Administrator shall prescribe, reports showing stocks
of all supplies, materials and equipment no longer used or which have become
obsolete, worn out or scrapped. The City Administrator shall have authority to
transfer any commodities which are unusable to another department in lieu of
filling requisitions for the purchase of new or additional stock of the same or
similar articles.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall have the authority to sell all the
supplies, materials and equipment which cannot be used by any department and
has been found by the City Council not to be required for public use, or to
exchange or trade in the articles in part or full payment for new supplies,
materials or equipment of a similar nature. Any sale, exchange or trade shall
be made in accordance with §§
34.27 and
34.28, whichever is applicable.
(1985 Code, § 9-34) (Ord. 18-032, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 34.40 APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL OF CONTRACTS OVER $25,000; EXEMPTIONS AND
PRIOR APPROVALS.
   (A)   City Council shall approve all contracts over $25,000, except:
      (1)   Contracts and items as listed in §
34.22 Exemptions;
      (2)   Contracts for goods and/or services approved by City Council by an
identifiable line item in the current budget year;
      (3)   Contracts for good and/or services that (i) are a part of a larger
transaction that has already been approved by City Council; and (ii) do not
exceed the amount budgeted for such part in the original approval;
      (4)   Contracts for goods and/or services that are to be paid with
proceeds of a debt issue if the project is identified in the ordinance
authorizing the bond issue; and
      (5)   Contracts which do not exceed by more than 10%, up to a $25,000
maximum, the amount previously authorized by City Council via the methods set
forth in (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section.
   (B)   All contracts authorized by city staff, pursuant to this section,
shall be subject to all foregoing sections of this subchapter. The City
Administrator shall make a report of all such contracts to City Council at its
regular public meeting and at other meetings, as appropriate.
(Ord. 2021-015, passed 6-8-2021)
CHAPTER 35: CIVIL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
35.01   Definition
   
35.02   Power to issue public proclamation and impose curfew
   
35.03   Limitations on, and exemptions from, curfew
   
35.04   Call of Council
   
35.05   Conditions during state of emergency
   
35.06   End of state of emergency and curfew
   
35.07   Penalty for violation of provisions of proclamation
   
35.08   Transfer of law enforcement officers to another municipality; procedure
   
35.09   Rights, powers and duties of the officers
§ 35.01 DEFINITION.
   A STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great crisis, disaster, rioting, civil disturbance, catastrophe or for any
other reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to maintain pubic
order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health, welfare or
property.
(1985 Code, § 6-1)
§ 35.02 POWER TO ISSUE PUBLIC PROCLAMATION AND IMPOSE CURFEW.
   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the lives,
safety, health and welfare of the people within the city or threatening damage
to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to
issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such a
state of emergency, and in order to more effectively protect the lives, safety
and property of the city, to define and impose a curfew applicable to all
persons within the jurisdiction of the city.
(1985 Code, § 6-2)
§ 35.03 LIMITATIONS ON, AND EXEMPTIONS FROM, CURFEW.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application of a
curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
jurisdiction of the city and to specific hours of the day and night, and to
exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses and the
others as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the needs of the people within the city.
(1985 Code, § 6-3)
Statutory references:
   Emergency preparedness, see S.C. Code § 25-1-450
   Power to provide for security and the like, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 35.04 CALL OF COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall be called into session within 24 hours after a state
of emergency has been proclaimed by the Mayor.
(1985 Code, § 6-4)
§ 35.05 CONDITIONS DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   During any state of emergency when a curfew has been defined and imposed, it
shall be unlawful for any person subject to curfew:
   (A)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon
public property unless it is necessary to obtain medical assistance;
   (B)   To possess, off one's own premises, buy, sell, give away or otherwise
transfer or dispose of any explosive, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapon
of any kind;
   (C)   To sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind, or to
possess or consume the same off one's own premises; and/or
   (D)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products or any other
combustible or inflammable substances except as expressly authorized by the
provisions of the curfew imposed.
(1985 Code, § 6-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.06 END OF STATE OF EMERGENCY AND CURFEW.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency and curfew as
soon as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the City Council.
(1985 Code, § 6-6)
§ 35.07 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF PROVISIONS OF PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly violate the provisions of
any part of this chapter dealing with the state of emergency.
(1985 Code, § 6-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.08 TRANSFER OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY;
PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor or Council may, upon the request of the governing body or Mayor of
any other municipality of the state, send any law enforcement officers to
assist the law enforcement officers of the requesting municipality in the
performance of their duties in case of emergency. A complete record of the
request together with the names of the officers sent shall be recorded in the
minutes of the next regular meeting of the Council. The assistance shall be
rendered only in emergencies, and the emergency shall be declared by the Mayor
of the requesting municipality, or, in the Mayor's absence, the person normally
acting in the Mayor's stead.
(1985 Code, § 6-8)
§ 35.09 RIGHTS, POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE OFFICERS.
   Law enforcement officers sent to another municipality pursuant to this
chapter shall retain the jurisdiction, authority, rights, privileges and
immunities, including coverage under worker's compensation laws, which they
had, and these shall be extended to and include the area in which like benefits
and authorities are or could be afforded, and the area between the two
municipalities when acting within the scope of the authority to make arrests
and to execute criminal process as is vested by law in the law enforcement
officers of the requesting municipality and of no other.
(1985 Code, § 6-9)
CHAPTER 36: COURT AND CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Municipal Judge; appointment
   
36.02   Associate judges; appointment
   
36.03   Filling vacancy in office of judge
   
36.04   Filling vacancy in office of associate judge
   
36.05   Judges not to plead in cases heard by them; limitation on practice in
criminal causes
   
36.06   Appointment and duties of Clerk of Court
   
36.07   Attendance of police officer in court required
   
36.08   Jurisdiction
   
36.09   Powers and duties of judge
   
36.10   Authority of judge to impose fine or imprisonment
Administrative Procedure
   
36.25   When court to be held
   
36.26   Authority of judges to issue rules for conduct of business
   
36.27   Disposition of fines and forfeitures
   
36.28   Forfeiture of bond by person not appearing
   
36.29   Commencement of proceedings upon information
   
36.30   Subpoena of witnesses
   
36.31   Tampering with witnesses
   
36.32   Enforcement of observance of decorum; punishment for insults and
disturbances
   
36.33   Motions for new trial; right of appeal
   
36.34   Reasons for granting new trial
   
36.35   Appeals to court of general sessions by person convicted and sentenced
   
36.36   Bail while appeal pending
   
36.37   Effect, upon appeal, of transcript of reporter’s notes of testimony
Jury
   
36.55   Empaneling of jury upon timely demand
   
36.56   Drawing and composing juries; single trials, trial terms; peremptory
challenges
   
36.57   Qualifications of jurors
   
36.58   Neglect or refusal of juror to appear in obedience to venire
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; APPOINTMENT.
   The Municipal Judge shall be appointed by the Council to serve for a term
set by the Council not to exceed four years and until a successor is appointed
and qualified. The compensation of the Municipal Judge shall be fixed by the
Council. Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of the office, the
judge shall take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by Article VI, §
5, of the state Constitution.
(1985 Code, § 7-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-15
§ 36.02 ASSOCIATE JUDGES; APPOINTMENT.
   In addition to the Judge of the Municipal Court, the Council may also
appoint associate judges of the Municipal Court to serve for a term not to
exceed four years. The salary of the associate judges shall be determined by
the Council. The associate judges shall assist the judge of the Municipal Court
and shall perform the duties and preside over the sessions of the Municipal
Court, as shall be prescribed by the Mayor. The associate judges may be members
of the city's legal staff, temporarily appointed in that capacity or may be
another person trained and possessing experience in Municipal Court procedures.
When performing the duties, the associate judges shall have all of the powers
and responsibilities and be subject to the limitations as provided for the
judge of the Municipal Court under the provisions of this code, except that the
associate judge shall not regulate the practices of the Municipal Court as
described in §§
36.25 and
36.26.
(1985 Code, § 7-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-25
§ 36.03 FILLING VACANCY IN OFFICE OF JUDGE.
   Whenever the office of judge of the Municipal Court shall become vacant, a
judge shall be appointed by the Council in the manner of original appointment
for the unexpired term.
(1985 Code, § 7-3)
Statutory reference:
   Filling vacancy, see S.C. Code § 14-25-25
§ 36.04 FILLING VACANCY IN OFFICE OF ASSOCIATE JUDGE.
   Whenever the office of associate judge of the Municipal Court shall become
vacant, an associate judge may be appointed by the Council by ballot, in the
manner of original appointment for the unexpired term.
(1985 Code, § 7-4)
§ 36.05 JUDGES NOT TO PLEAD IN CASES HEARD BY THEM; LIMITATION ON PRACTICE IN
CRIMINAL CAUSES.
   No judge shall be permitted to plead in a superior court in any case which
has been argued before or adjudged by the judge in the Municipal Court. No
Municipal Judge who is admitted to practice in the courts of the state shall
practice law in the Municipal Court.
(1985 Code, § 7-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.06 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF CLERK OF COURT.
   A municipal employee shall be employed to serve as Clerk of the Court. The
Clerk of the Court shall keep the records and make the reports as may be
determined by the State Court Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 7-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-35
§ 36.07 ATTENDANCE OF POLICE OFFICER IN COURT REQUIRED.
   One of the officers of the police force shall be in constant attendance in
the Municipal Court and shall take proper measures for the safekeeping of the
prisoners and for carrying into effect the orders of the court. The Chief of
Police and police officers shall also be invested with the same powers and
duties as are provided for magistrates and constables.
(1985 Code, § 7-7)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Chief of Police and police officers, see S.C. Code §
14-25-55
§ 36.08 JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall have the following jurisdiction:
   (A)   Jurisdiction of all offenses committed within the corporate limits of
the city, which may be subject to the penalties of fines or forfeiture not
exceeding $500 plus assessments required by the State of South Carolina, or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, and of all offenses which are now or may
hereafter be within the jurisdiction of magistrates.
   (B)   Jurisdiction of all criminal cases made under state law and conferred
upon magistrates, occurring within the corporate limits of the city.
(1985 Code, § 7-8)
Statutory reference:
   Similar previous, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-45 and 14-25-65
§ 36.09 POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUDGE.
   The judge of the Municipal Court, or any duly authorized officer holding the
court, shall have the power to hear and determine motions for new trials and
arrest of judgment, to issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and
warrants for the arrest of defendants, to swear witnesses, to punish for
contempt and to issue all other usual processes according to the known and
approved rules of the common law and statutes, in the discharge of official
duties.
(1985 Code, § 7-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar statutory law, see S.C. Code § 14-25-45
§ 36.10 AUTHORITY OF JUDGE TO IMPOSE FINE OR IMPRISONMENT.
   When any person is found guilty of any offense, the judge may sentence the
person to pay a fine not exceeding $500 plus assessments required by the State
of South Carolina or serve a term not exceeding 30 days in jail.
(1985 Code, § 7-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-65
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
§ 36.25 WHEN COURT TO BE HELD.
   The Municipal Court shall be held weekly at the Municipal Court room, within
the discretion of the judge, at the hours as the judge may fix.
(1985 Code, § 7-20)
§ 36.26 AUTHORITY OF JUDGES TO ISSUE RULES FOR CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The judges of the Municipal Court shall have the power to make the
rules and regulations not inconsistent with the laws of the land for conducting
the business of the Municipal Court as may be necessary for the dispatch of the
business, the preservation of order and the furtherance of public justice.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with the rules and regulations so made.
(1985 Code, § 7-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.27 DISPOSITION OF FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   All fines and forfeitures recovered and collected in the Municipal Court for
any offense whatever, shall belong to the city and be paid into the Treasury
thereof.
(1985 Code, § 7-22)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-85
§ 36.28 FORFEITURE OF BOND BY PERSON NOT APPEARING.
   In the Municipal Court, upon any charge made against any person released on
bond and not appearing when called, the judges of the Municipal Court may order
the bond forfeited.
(1985 Code, § 7-24)
§ 36.29 COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS UPON INFORMATION.
   (A)   All proceedings before the Municipal Court shall be commenced on
information under oath, plainly and substantially setting forth the offense
charged upon which, and only upon which, shall a warrant of arrest issue.
   (B)   The information may be amended at any time before trial.
(1985 Code, § 7-25)
§ 36.30 SUBPOENA OF WITNESSES.
   The judges of the Municipal Court, on the application of any party to a
cause pending before the judges, shall issue a subpoena citing any person whose
testimony may be required in the cause to appear before the judge at a certain
time and place, to give evidence. The subpoena shall be served personally at
least one day before the attendance is required. If the person shall neglect or
refuse to attend, the judge may order the witness to be brought before the
court or, if any witness attending shall refuse to give evidence, without good
cause shown, the judge may commit the witness to jail for not longer than 24
hours.
(1985 Code, § 7-26)
§ 36.31 TAMPERING WITH WITNESSES.
   Any person who shall, by any means whatsoever, bribe, persuade or induce any
witness to be absent from the Municipal Court or to fail to appear and testify,
when notified to do so, or who bribes, persuades or induces any person to swear
falsely on any trial, or who attempts to bribe, persuade or induce any witness
to be absent from court when properly notified to be present, or to swear
falsely on any trial, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 7-27)
§ 36.32 ENFORCEMENT OF OBSERVANCE OF DECORUM; PUNISHMENT FOR INSULTS AND
DISTURBANCES.
   The judges of the Municipal Court shall have the power to enforce the
observance of decorum in Municipal Court while holding court, and for that
purpose may punish any person who shall, in the presence of the court, offer an
insult to the judges or a juror or who shall be wilfully guilty of an undue
disturbance of the proceedings before the court while sitting officially, as
for a contempt, by fine and imprisonment, either or both, not exceeding $500
plus assessments required by the State of South Carolina or 30 days
imprisonment.
(1985 Code, § 7-28)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to punish for contempt, see S.C. Code § 14-25-45
§ 36.33 MOTIONS FOR NEW TRIAL; RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   No motion for a new trial in the Municipal Court shall be heard unless made
within ten days from the rendering of the judgment. A timely motion for a new
trial shall stay the time for appeal until that motion os denied.
(1985 Code, § 7-29)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals, see S.C. Code § 14-25-95
§ 36.34 REASONS FOR GRANTING NEW TRIAL.
   The judge of the Municipal Court may grant a new trial in any case tried in
the Municipal Court for reasons for which new trials have usually been granted
in the courts of law of the state.
(1985 Code, § 7-30)
§ 36.35 APPEALS TO COURT OF GENERAL SESSIONS BY PERSON CONVICTED AND SENTENCED.
   (A)   Every person convicted in the Municipal Court of any offense whatever
and sentenced may appeal from the sentence to the next term of court of general
sessions for the county. The appellant shall, within ten days after sentence,
serve written notice of appeal upon the judge who tried the case, stating the
grounds upon which the appeal is founded.
   (B)   Within 20 days after the service, the judge shall file the notice in
the office of the Clerk of the Court of general sessions, together with a
statement of all proceedings in the case. If the testimony was taken in
writing, a transcript of it shall be filed upon its completion, but in no case
later than 45 days after sentencing.
(1985 Code, § 7-31)
Statutory reference:
   Return in event of appeal, see S.C. Code § 14-25-105
§ 36.36 BAIL WHILE APPEAL PENDING.
   Upon service of the notice provided in §
36.35, the judges shall, on demand of the defendant, admit the defendant to
bail in the reasonable sum, and with adequate surety as the judges may require,
with conditions:
   (A)   To appear at the court appealed to and at any subsequent term to which
the case nay be continued, if not previously surrendered, and so from term to
term until the final decree, sentence or order of the court thereon;
   (B)   To abide the final sentence, order or decree and not depart without
leave; and
   (C)   In the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behavior.
(1985 Code, § 7-32)
§ 36.37 EFFECT, UPON APPEAL, OF TRANSCRIPT OF REPORTER’S NOTES OF TESTIMONY.
   In the taking of testimony and preparation of the record in cases of appeal
from the Municipal Court, the transcript of the notes of the testimony taken on
the trial by a sworn reporter, shall be held to be equivalent to testimony
signed by the witness.
(1985 Code, § 7-33)
JURY
§ 36.55 EMPANELING OF JURY UPON TIMELY DEMAND.
   In the trial of any case in the Municipal Court, upon the timely demand for
a jury, a jury shall be summoned and empaneled.
(1985 Code, § 7-40)
Statutory reference:
   Demand for jury, see S.C. Code § 14-25-125
§ 36.56 DRAWING AND COMPOSING JURIES; SINGLE TRIALS, TRIAL TERMS; PEREMPTORY
CHALLENGES.
   (A)   The drawing and composing of juries for single trials or terms of
court shall be conducted, mutatis mutandi, according to the statutes relating
to the drawing and composing of juries in magistrates’ courts, except as
otherwise specifically provided by this chapter. A person appointed by the
Municipal Judge who is not connected with the trial of the case for either
party shall draw out of compartment “A” of the jury box 30 names and the list
of names so drawn shall be delivered to each party or to the attorney for each
party.
   (B)   In addition to the procedure for drawing a jury list as provided for
in division (A) above, in those courts which schedule terms for jury trials,
the judge may select a jury list in the manner provided by this section. Not
less than ten nor more than 20 days prior to a scheduled term of jury trials, a
person selected by the presiding judge shall draw at least 40 jurors.
   (C)   The names drawn pursuant to either divisions (A) or (B) above shall be
placed in a box or hat and individual names randomly drawn out one at a time
until six jurors and four alternates are selected. Each party shall have a
maximum of six peremptory challenges as to primary jurors and four peremptory
challenges as to alternate jurors and the other challenges for cause as the
court may permit. If for any reason it is impossible to select sufficient
jurors and alternates from the names drawn, names shall be randomly drawn from
compartment “A” until sufficient jurors and alternates are selected.
   (D)   Where a jury is drawn and composed for a single trial, as provided in
division (A) above, the parties shall exercise peremptory challenges in advance
of the trial date, and only persons selected to serve and alternates shall be
summoned for the trial.
(1985 Code, § 7-42)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-165
§ 36.57 QUALIFICATIONS OF JURORS.
   All persons possessing the qualifications prescribed for jurors by the laws
of the state, and who have resided in the city for four months before being
sworn shall be liable to serve as jurors in the Municipal Court, saving and
reserving to all persons all lawful excuses and exemptions as in other courts.
(1985 Code, § 7-43)
§ 36.58 NEGLECT OR REFUSAL OF JUROR TO APPEAR IN OBEDIENCE TO VENIRE.
   If any juror duly summoned shall neglect or refuse to appear in obedience to
any venire issued by the Municipal Court, and shall not, within 48 hours,
render to the judge holding the court and issuing the venire a sufficient
reason for the delinquency, the juror shall be punished as for contempt. A
failure to pay forthwith the fine so assessed shall constitute a contempt of
court and be punished accordingly.
(1985 Code, § 7-44)
Statutory reference:
   Similar law, see S.C. Code § 14-25-185
CHAPTER 37: ELECTIONS
Section
   
37.01   Municipal election authority
   
37.02   Reimbursement of election costs
   
37.03   When elections to be held
   
37.04   Special elections
   
37.05   Polling place, location and time open and closed
   
37.06   Non-partisan election procedure
   
37.07   Determination of election results under non-partisan plurality method
   
37.08   Time of taking office
   
37.09   Terms of Mayor and Council
   
37.10   Listing of candidates on ballot
   
37.11   Results of elections
   
37.12   Safeguarding the ballots
   
37.13   Contest of election
   
37.14   Later election in case of failure to hold when due, and the like
§ 37.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall
advertise municipal elections, prepare and distribute ballots and election
materials, appoint managers of election for each polling place, and otherwise
supervise and conduct all municipal elections within the City of Goose Creek.
   (B)   Immediately upon the closing of the polls at any municipal election in
the City of Goose Creek, the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election
Commission shall begin to count and continuously count the votes cast and make
a statement of the whole number of the votes cast in such election together
with the number of votes cast for each candidate for Mayor and Councilperson,
canvas the vote and publicly display the unofficial results.
   (C)   The Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall
thereafter certify the results of the elections and transmit the certified
results to the Goose Creek City Council or an appointed authority representing
the city government as soon as practicable following the certification.
   (D)   The Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall
accept candidate filings and filing fees, including but not limited to notices
of candidacy and candidacy pledges, hear and decide protests, and certify the
results of municipal elections.
   (E)   The Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall
utilize the current voting system operated by the county with the count
publicly conducted.
   (F)   The Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall
take such other action as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct municipal
elections and certify the results. The Berkeley County Voter Registration and
Election Commission shall give notice of any special or regular election in the
city in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or, in addition, in
such other manner as it sees fit. Notice of election for Mayor and Council
shall be given at least 60 days prior to the date of election. All other
elections shall be given as provided by the code of laws of the state. Notice
shall include all necessary information essential to the nomination or election
process, to include, when appropriate, the offices to be filled, dates of
filing of petitions and election, and polling place and poll manager.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.02 REIMBURSEMENT OF ELECTION COSTS.
   (A)   The City of Goose Creek shall reimburse the Berkeley County Voter
Registration and Election Commission for all costs incurred in providing
ballots, advertising elections, printing costs, postage, transportation costs,
temporary help, programming charges, poll managers compensation and other
related additional expenses incurred in its conduct of municipal elections in
the City of Goose Creek, less filing fees collected by the Berkeley County
Voter Registration and Election Commission. If a protest is filed or litigation
is commenced in connection with the conduct of municipal elections, the City of
Goose Creek shall pay all court costs, attorneys’ fees, court reporters’ fees
and costs, and other costs and expenses incurred in such protest or litigation
or the defense thereof. The Berkeley County Registration and Election
Commission shall provide invoices to the City of Goose Creek of all such costs
and expenses incurred in the conduct of Goose Creek municipal elections,
protests, certifications of results, litigation or other costs which may be
incurred, even if not specifically mentioned in this chapter. Further, the City
of Goose Creek shall provide payment upon such invoices within 30 days of
receipt thereof.
   (B)   Requirements of method of nominating candidates of filing, and filing
fees.
      (1)   Candidates for the Offices of Mayor and City Council shall file a
statement of candidacy with the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election
Commission not later than 12:00 noon, 60 days prior to the election, but not
sooner than 75 days prior to the election. A filing fee of $150 shall be
submitted with the statement of candidacy for the Office of City Council. The
filing fee for the Office of Mayor shall be the sum of $300. The Berkeley
County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall verify the information
in the statement for compliance with state and city laws and place the name of
the candidate on the ballot. All filing fees received shall be used to defray
the cost of the election.
      (2)   Any person declaring candidacy under this section who cannot afford
the required filing fee and who claims to be indigent shall file a written
appeal for relief with the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election
Commission not later than 12:00 noon, 60 days prior to the election, but not
sooner than 75 days prior to the election.
   (C)   The Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission must
examine the petitions of the candidates and determine the validity not later
than 30 days prior to the general or special election.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.03 WHEN ELECTIONS TO BE HELD.
   After the November 2022 municipal general election, and for every municipal
general election for Mayor and City Council thereafter, the municipal general
election shall be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in
November of odd-numbered years and if there be any postponement of the general
election as a result of emergency or disaster, then at such time as the general
election is held.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 18-013, passed 7-10-2018; Ord. 2021-029,
passed 11-9-2021)
§ 37.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   In case a vacancy shall occur in the Office of Mayor or any member of the
Council, an election shall be held to fill the vacancy provided the vacancy
occurs 180 days or more prior to the next general election. Any special
election which may be held shall be conducted according to the same rules and
regulations controlling the regular municipal elections.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.05 POLLING PLACE, LOCATION AND TIME OPEN AND CLOSED.
   The location of the polls and the hours of opening and closing the polls
shall be according to the general election laws of the state at such locations
as may be published prior to the election.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 18-013, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 37.06 NON-PARTISAN ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   All regular and special elections for the Office of Mayor and/or
Councilmember for the city shall be non-partisan elections held pursuant to
applicable state statutes. No political party affiliation shall be placed on
any ballot for any candidate. Public notice of all elections shall be given at
least 90 days prior to the elections.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.07 DETERMINATION OF ELECTION RESULTS UNDER NON-PARTISAN PLURALITY METHOD.
   The winners shall be determined by the nonpartisan plurality method set
forth in S.C. Code § 5-15-61;
   (A)   When more than one person is seeking election to a single office, the
candidate who receives the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
   (B)   When more persons are seeking election to two or more offices
(constituting a group) than there are offices to be filled, those candidates
receiving the highest number of votes, equal in number to the number of offices
to be filled, shall be declared elected.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 18-013, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 37.08 TIME OF TAKING OFFICE.
   (A)   After a Regular Election, newly elected officers shall be qualified
after at least 48 hours after the closing of the polls. If the results of the
election are contested, the incumbent who fills the contested office shall hold
over until the contestant is finally determined. Elected officers shall take
office during the first regular meeting in January after being qualified by the
Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission.
   (B)   After a special election, newly elected officers shall take office 30
days after being qualified by the Berkeley County Voter Registration and
Election Commission of which their term would begin.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 2023-006, passed 2-14-2023)
§ 37.09 TERMS OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and City Council shall be elected for a term of four years. The
terms of Council shall be staggered so that not more than one half of the
Council and Mayor shall be elected in the same general election.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.10 LISTING OF CANDIDATES ON BALLOT.
   All candidates for office shall be listed in alphabetical order under the
names of the office being sought, and all candidates shall be listed without
title. Nicknames shall not be used unless approved by the Berkeley County Voter
Registration and Election Commission. Insofar as possible, the style of the
general election ballot shall be the same as that prescribed in the code of
laws of the state for general elections. One space for each office to be filled
must be allowed for the voters to write in the name of any qualified person for
whom they may wish to vote.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.11 RESULTS OF ELECTIONS.
   The managers of the municipal election shall officially certify the results
of the election to the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election
Commission on the day following the election. The Berkeley County Voter
Registration and Election Commission shall officially declare the results of
the election within 72 hours following the close of the election. The
declaration shall be made to the Mayor and Council who shall officially notify
the candidates of the results.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.12 SAFEGUARDING THE BALLOTS.
   After any municipal election has been conducted and the official ballots
have been duly conducted and tabulated, the Berkeley County Voter Registration
and Election Commission shall place the ballots into the envelopes which shall
be sealed and the envelopes containing the ballots shall be placed into ballot
boxes. The ballot boxes containing the ballots shall be locked and placed in
the city safe or other equally secure place. The keys to the ballot boxes shall
be placed in the custody of the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election
Commission. The ballots shall be left undisturbed in the city safe or other
place unless the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission
shall order the ballots released for the purpose of a contested election as
provided by the laws of the state or for conducting a recount as provided by
the laws of the state. After the proceedings of a contested election have been
completed or adjourned for the day, the ballots shall be redeposited in the
city safe or other equally secure place according to the procedure described
above. If no appeals are made or no contests filed, the Berkeley County Voter
Registration and Election Commission shall order, in writing, the ballots
destroyed at the end of the third week following the date of the election;
provided that no ballots shall be destroyed until all appeals have been
decided.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.13 CONTEST OF ELECTION.
   (A)   Within 48 hours after the closing of the polls, any candidate may
contest the result of the election as reported by the managers by filing a
written notice of the contest together with a concise statement of the grounds
therefor with the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission.
Within 48 hours after the filing of the notice, the Berkeley County Voter
Registration and Election Commission shall, after due notice to the parties
concerned, conduct a hearing on the contest, decide the issues raised, file its
report together with all recorded testimony and exhibits, with the Clerk of
Court of the county, notify the parties concerned of the decision made and when
the decision invalidates the election, the Council shall order a new election
as to the parties concerned.
   (B)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of Council shall be eligible to pass
on the issues arising in any contest in which the person is a party.
   (C)   Within ten days after notice of the decision of the Berkeley County
Voter Registration and Election Commission, any party aggrieved thereby may
appeal from the decision to the Court of Common Pleas. Notice of appeal shall
be served on the opposing parties or their attorneys and filed in the office of
the Clerk of Court within ten days. The notice of appeal shall act as a stay of
further proceedings pending the appeal.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 37.14 LATER ELECTION IN CASE OF FAILURE TO HOLD WHEN DUE, AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever any election of the city shall fail of its purpose because of a tie
vote or otherwise, or whenever any election shall fail to be held for any
reason, the Berkeley County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall,
whenever the failure appears, proceed forthwith to appoint a day and advertise
for and hold another election and so continue to do so until the purpose of the
election has been attained.
(Ord. 09-006, passed 10-13-2009)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
38.01   Personnel policies and procedures; adopted by reference
§ 38.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Goose Creek’s personnel policies and procedures are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
51.   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY
CHAPTER 50: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
50.001   Title
   
50.002   Authority
   
50.003   Jurisdiction
   
50.004   Findings
   
50.005   Purpose
   
50.006   Construction and scope
   
50.007   Rules of language and interpretation
   
50.008   Relationship with other laws, regulations and ordinances
   
50.009   Amendments
   
50.010   Conflicting ordinances repealed
   
50.011   Incorporation and adoption of Berkeley County Stormwater Management
Ordinance
   
50.012   Funding
§ 50.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Stormwater Management Ordinance of the
City of Goose Creek, South Carolina”.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred upon the City of
Goose Creek by the South Carolina Constitution, Act No. 194 of the Acts and
Joint Resolutions of 1971, enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
South Carolina, approved April 23, 1971, in S.C. Code §§ 4-9-30, 4-9-40, 5-7-30
and 5-7-60.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.003 JURISDICTION.
   The boundaries and jurisdiction of this chapter shall encompass those
portions of the incorporated City of Goose Creek, as they may exist from time
to time.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.004 FINDINGS.
   The Goose Creek City Council makes the following findings:
   (A)   Uncontrolled stormwater runoff may have a significant, adverse impact
on the health, safety and general welfare of the City of Goose Creek and the
quality of life of its citizens. The potential impacts of uncontrolled
stormwater can lead to the degradation of water quality and general riverine
ecosystem through excessive or illegal pollutant discharges, erosion and
flooding thereby limiting or removing its designated and potential uses.
   (B)   The City of Goose Creek is required by federal law (33 U.S.C § 1342(p)
and 40 C.F.R. 122.26) to obtain a NPDES permit from the South Carolina
Department of Health and Environmental Control (“SCDHEC”) for stormwater
discharges from the City of Goose Creek Stormwater System. The NPDES permit
requires the City of Goose Creek to impose controls to reduce the discharge of
pollutants in stormwater to the maximum extent practicable (MEP) using
management practices, control techniques and system, design and engineering
methods and other provisions which are determined to be appropriate for the
control of the pollutants.
   (C)   Additionally, certain facilities that discharge stormwater associated
with an industrial activity, including construction activities, are required by
the South Carolina Code of Regulations 61-9-122 to obtain NPDES permits for
construction activities.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.005 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect, maintain and enhance
water quality and the environment of the City of Goose Creek and the short-term
and long-term public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the
City of Goose Creek. This chapter is also designed to minimize property damage
by establishing requirements and procedures to control the potential adverse
effects of increased stormwater runoff and related pollutant loads associated
with both future development and existing developed land. Proper management of
stormwater runoff will further the purpose of this chapter to insure a
functional drainage system, reduce the effects of development on land and
stream channel erosion, attain and maintain water quality standards, enhance
the local environment associated with the drainage system, reduce local
flooding, maintain to the maximum extent practical pre-developed runoff
characteristics of the area in terms of flow rate, volume and pollutant
concentration and facilitate economic development while mitigating associated
pollutant, flooding, erosion and drainage impacts.
   (B)   It is further the purpose of this chapter to direct the development
and implementation of a Stormwater Management Program (SWMP) and to establish
legal authority which authorizes or enables the City of Goose Creek at a
minimum to:
      (1)   Comply with state and federal requirements related to stormwater
management developed pursuant to the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.;
      (2)   Prohibit illicit discharges to the City of Goose Creek stormwater
management systems and facilities and receiving waters;
      (3)   Control to the maximum extent practical, the discharge to the City
of Goose Creek stormwater management systems and facilities and receiving
waters of spills, dumping or disposal of materials other than stormwater;
      (4)   Address specific categories of non-stormwater discharges and
similar other incidental non-stormwater discharges listed in the SWMP;
      (5)   Require erosion and sediment controls to protect water quality on
all applicable new and re-development projects both during and after
construction;
      (6)   Where necessary, require stormwater discharge rate and volume
control during and following development, redevelopment or construction;
      (7)   Define and implement procedures of site plan review and site
inspection of all applicable construction projects within the City of Goose
Creek;
      (8)   Control the discharge from the City of Goose Creek stormwater
management systems and facilities and receiving waters of pollutants in such
quantity that water quality standards are met or to otherwise address post-
construction, long-term water quality. This includes the necessary means needed
to comply with state and federal regulations regarding stormwater management
quantity and quality;
      (9)   Define procedures for addressing citizen complaints of stormwater-
related issues within the City of Goose Creek;
      (10)   Provide for adequate long-term operation and maintenance of Best
Management Practices (BMPs);
      (11)   Prior to any review of construction activities within the City of
Goose Creek, require a letter from the office of the Department of Health and
Environmental Control’s (DHEC) Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management
that states the proposed project is consistent with the Coastal Zone Management
Plan;
      (12)   Carry out inspection, surveillance and monitoring procedures
necessary to determine compliance and noncompliance with permit conditions,
including the prohibition on illicit discharges to the City of Goose Creek
storm sewer system and receiving waters;
      (13)   Encourage the use of non-traditional strategies to control
stormwater discharges;
      (14)   Encourage the creation of stream buffers and preservation of
natural spaces to provide areas that could be used for flood storage,
stormwater treatment and control and recreation. The areas may be required in
special protection areas needed to protect, maintain or enhance water quality
and protect property from flooding problems;
      (15)   Develop, implement and enforce action plans to address pollutant
load reductions required in impaired water bodies and to work towards
compliance with total maximum daily loads (TMDLs) established by EPA or SCDHEC
and to work towards meeting water quality standards; and
      (16)   Enable enforcement of all authorizations.
   (C)   It is still further the purpose of this chapter to establish review
authority for the City of Goose Creek Department of Public Works for
establishing consistency of construction projects with the City of Goose Creek
SWMP.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.006 CONSTRUCTION AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply throughout the incorporated
areas of the City of Goose Creek.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, shall be
primarily responsible for the coordination and enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter and the SWMP.
   (C)   The application of this chapter and the provisions and references
expressed herein shall be the minimum stormwater management requirements and
shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other ordinances of the City
of Goose Creek, or powers granted the City of Goose Creek by the State of South
Carolina statutes, including, without limitation, the power to require
additional or more stringent stormwater management requirements. In additional
protections, if site characteristics on new development, redevelopment and
existing developments indicate that complying with these minimum requirements
will not provide adequate designs or protection for local property, residents
or the environment, the property owner, operator or person responsible for land
disturbing activities is required to provide additional and appropriate
management practices, control techniques, system design and engineering methods
to attain an adequate level of protection.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.007 RULES OF LANGUAGE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive.
   (B)   The particular shall control the general.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless
the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (D)   All public officials, bodies and agencies to which reference is made
are those of the City of Goose Creek, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.008 RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS AND ORDINANCES.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter impose more restrictive standards
than are required in or under any other law, regulation or ordinance, the
requirements contained in this chapter shall prevail. Whenever the provisions
of any other law, regulation or ordinance require more restrictive standards
than are required in this chapter, the requirements of the law, regulation or
ordinance shall prevail.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.009 AMENDMENTS.
   The Goose Creek City Council, may, in its discretion and following
procedures specified by state law, amend or change this chapter or adopt
additional regulations or resolutions to implement this chapter, implement the
SWMP or to otherwise further the goal of protecting the quality of the waters
into which the City of Goose Creek storm sewer system outfalls.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.010 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter are hereby repealed. This chapter shall prevail in any and all
conflicts with guidelines, manuals or other publications.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 50.011 INCORPORATION AND ADOPTION OF BERKELEY COUNTY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
ORDINANCE.
   The City of Goose Creek hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
Berkeley County Stormwater Management Ordinance 14-11-36 and shall
automatically incorporate any revisions to the Berkeley County Stormwater
Management Ordinance enacted thereafter.
(Ord. 18-024, passed 9-11-2018)
§ 50.012 FUNDING.
   In addition to all other charges, fees and penalties, the City of Goose
Creek shall have the right to develop and impose a stormwater service fee to
fund implementation of this chapter and its associated programs and plans.
Establishment and revision of the fees shall be approved by the Goose Creek
City Council.
(Ord. 07-017, passed 11-13-2007)
CHAPTER 51: PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definition
   
51.02   Required users; notice to connect
   
51.03   Private system; authorized use
   
51.04   Illegal sale from private or commercial systems
   
51.05   Application and installation of water service
   
51.06   Unauthorized connections or use
   
51.07   Interference with water system
   
51.08   Obstruction of and damage to city property
   
51.09   Pollution
   
51.10   Prohibited connection
   
51.11   Annexation requirement for new or upgraded utility connections
Pipes
   
51.25   Unapproved pipes
   
51.26   Extension of service lines
Service
   
51.40   Metered service
   
51.41   Owner’s responsibility for repairs and the like
   
51.42   Cut-offs
   
51.43   Non-liability for defective service; service termination
   
51.44   Locked meters
   
51.45   City’s right-of-entry
   
51.46   Rates and charges; on file
   
51.47   Billing for water service
   
51.48   Service termination for non-payment
   
51.49   Defective meters
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   USER. Any family or business furnished water for any purpose by the city
through its water line.
(1985 Code, § 12-20)
§ 51.02 REQUIRED USERS; NOTICE TO CONNECT.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in
the future be located, a public water main of the city's, is hereby required at
the owner's expense to install suitable water service facilities therein and to
connect the facilities directly with the city water system in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided that the public water main is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of
the property line.
(1985 Code, § 12-21)
§ 51.03 PRIVATE SYSTEM; AUTHORIZED USE.
   (A)   Where a public water main is not available under the provisions of §
51.02, the property owner may connect to a private water well system.
   (B)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private water well
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Health
and Environmental Control. No private water well system shall be installed
unless the system is properly designed by a professional engineer registered in
the state.
   (C)   At the time as city water becomes available to a property served by a
private water well system, as provided above, a direct connection shall be made
to the city water main in compliance with this chapter, and the private water
well facilities shall be disconnected from the potable water supply main.
   (D)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private water well facilities
at no expense to the city.
   (E)   When a city water supply connection becomes available, the water
supply main shall be connected to the water system within 90 days.
(1985 Code, § 12-22)
§ 51.04 ILLEGAL SALE FROM PRIVATE OR COMMERCIAL SYSTEMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person served with water from the city to
operate a private or commercial water distribution system for the purpose of
the sale or resale of water without the express written consent of the city.
(1985 Code, § 12-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 APPLICATION AND INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The owner shall make application for water service on a form furnished
by the city. The application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Director.
   (B)   The owner or the owner's agent shall, after receiving written approval
of the permit application for the connection of an existing building, construct
a water service pipe to the property line at the highway or right-of-way line
at the location designated by the city. The open end shall be plugged to
prevent the entry of debris or damage to the threads. Five to six feet of pipe
trench immediately behind the valve on the owner's property shall be left open
for adjustment of the elevation of the line to affect the connection of the
meter and box used. The owner shall be responsible for protection of the open
trench and closing of the trench after the meter and box are installed and
connected. All excavations for water service pipe installations shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (C)   The applicant for the water service pipe permit shall notify the
Director when the water service pipe is ready for inspection and connection to
the public water distribution system. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Director or the Director's representative.
   (D)   The size, alignment, materials and construction of a water service
pipe and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes and other applicable rules and regulations of
the city.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the water service pipe shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the water service pipe.
(1985 Code, § 12-24)
§ 51.06 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS OR USE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public water main or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining the proper permit to do so.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has no contract, agreement,
license or permission with or from the city for the use of water belonging to
or furnished by the city, to withdraw water or cause water to be withdrawn from
the water mains or pipes of the city for the person's use or the use of any
other person. Upon discovering such a case, the city shall have the right to
terminate service without notice.
(1985 Code, § 12-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 5-31-1140 et seq.
§ 51.07 INTERFERENCE WITH WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere or tamper with or open, for
any purpose whatever, any of the property, appurtenances, mains or fire
hydrants of the water system of the city without having first obtained the
proper permission to do so from an authorized representative of the city. Upon
discovering such a case, the city shall have the right to terminate service
without notice.
(1985 Code, § 12-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   See S.C. Code §§ 5-31-20 and 5-31-1110
§ 51.08 OBSTRUCTION OF AND DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to obstruct, damage or
in any way tamper with any pipe, fire hydrant, public drinking fountain or any
other appurtenance of the water system of the city. Upon discovering such a
case, the city shall have the right to terminate service without notice.
(1985 Code, § 12-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 5-31-1130
§ 51.09 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to pollute the water
supply of the city.
(1985 Code, § 12-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 PROHIBITED CONNECTION.
   No person shall connect a potable water line directly to a sanitary sewer or
private well system.
(1985 Code, § 12-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 ANNEXATION REQUIREMENT FOR NEW OR UPGRADED UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the city to require that the owner of any
property located outside of the city (the “subject property”) requesting either
new or upgraded water service (“utility service”) be required to petition to
annex such property into the city at such time utility service is requested or,
if the subject property is not yet contiguous to the boundaries of the city, at
such time as the subject property becomes contiguous to the boundaries of the
city.
   (B)   If the subject property is contiguous to the city at the time such
request is made, the owner thereof shall be required to submit an annexation
petition, (a “petition”) to the city at such time as the owner applies for
utility service.
   (C)   If the subject property is not contiguous to the corporate boundaries
of the city at the time the owner requests utility service, the owner of the
subject property shall execute a declaration of annexation covenant (the
“annexation covenant”) as a condition of receiving utility service. The
annexation covenant shall requiring the owner of the subject property and any
successor in interest to the owner of the subject property, or any portion
thereof, to submit a petition at such time as the subject property, any portion
thereof, becomes contiguous to the city’s boundaries. The form of the
annexation covenant shall substantially conform the form of an annexation
covenant approved by the Council.
   (D)   The Council may waive this requirement with respect to any property
through the adoption of a resolution that includes specific finding justifying
such waiver and a finding that such waiver is in the best interest of the city
and its citizens.
(Ord. 2024-010, passed 6-11-2024)
PIPES
§ 51.25 UNAPPROVED PIPES.
   Old water service pipes shall not be used in connection with new buildings.
(1985 Code, § 12-30)
§ 51.26 EXTENSION OF SERVICE LINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to extend service pipes attached to the
city's mains and water supply on any premises without first obtaining
permission thereof in writing from the city, and before any worker or plumber
shall perform any work connected with the extension of the service pipes,
written permission for the extensions shall be obtained.
(1985 Code, § 12-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
SERVICE
§ 51.40 METERED SERVICE.
   All water service shall be furnished upon a metered basis, except to public
fire hydrants and automatic sprinkler systems. The owner shall install an
indicator check assembly on all buildings requiring an independent sprinkler
system or water line for fire service. A separate and independent meter and
water service pipe shall be provided for every building. Each building section,
as determined by common occupancy, shall be considered as a separate building
for the purpose of water service and use charges. An application agreement must
be signed, tap fee and deposit paid before a meter is installed and water
turned on. The owner or lessee shall protect the meter from injury and shall be
liable for loss of the meter or damage thereto excluding deterioration.
(1985 Code, § 12-32)
§ 51.41 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS AND THE LIKE.
   Owner, lessee or renter shall be obligated to and liable for the expense of
all repairs, replacements and relocations necessary to water service pipes.
When a leak occurs between the meter and the main, the city shall repair it.
When a leak occurs between the end of the meter connection (house side) and the
house or building served, the leak shall be immediately repaired by the owner,
lessee or renter at the person's expense. The owner, lessee or renter shall be
charged for all water metered, whether used or wasted, provided the leak is not
from the meter connection.
(1985 Code, § 12-33)
§ 51.42 CUT-OFFS.
   All cut-offs at the meter must be made by a city employee, except in an
emergency occurring during hours when city employees are off duty.
(1985 Code, § 12-34)
§ 51.43 NON-LIABILITY FOR DEFECTIVE SERVICE; SERVICE TERMINATION.
   The city shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of
water for any cause whatsoever. Any efforts or attempts to bypass meters or to
avoid payment of just charges shall be deemed sufficient to justify and
authorize the city to terminate service at once and without notice.
(1985 Code, § 12-35)
§ 51.44 LOCKED METERS.
   When a house is vacated, the meter must be read and locked by a city
employee. The owner of any vacant house, for which the meter is requested to be
left intact, shall be liable for no less than the monthly service charge.
(1985 Code, § 12-36)
§ 51.45 CITY’S RIGHT-OF-ENTRY.
   Employees of the city shall have the right, at all reasonable hours of the
day, to have access to water pipes and meters on the premises of the customers,
for the purpose of examining, repairing, reading or replacing meters or water
lines.
(1985 Code, § 12-37)
§ 51.46 RATES AND CHARGES; ON FILE.
   All tap fees, deposits, monthly charges, late payment charges and other fees
and charges relating to the city water system are as prescribed from time to
time by the City Council and filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(1985 Code, § 12-38)
§ 51.47 BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
   A bill for water consumed during the billing period shall be rendered on the
first day of the month following the date of billing. The bill shall be due and
payable upon receipt. Bills for water service shall be past due if not paid on
or before day 15 of the same month.
(1985 Code, § 12-39)
§ 51.48 SERVICE TERMINATION FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue water service to customers
by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful opportunity
to be heard on disputed bills. The city water bills shall contain, in addition
to the title, address, and telephone number of the water billing department,
clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before the date specified on the
water bill, a late notice will be mailed indicating if the bill is not paid by
the 25th of the month, service will be discontinued for nonpayment.
      (3)   The city has the right pursuant to the South Carolina Setoff Debt
Collection Act to collect any delinquent sum due through offset of the state
income tax refund including all fees.
   (B)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue water service to
a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after all
bills for service then due have been paid. An administrative fee may be paid at
the time of reinstatement or will be added to the next month’s bill.
   (C)   The Department of Public Works (DPW) will check to insure unpaid
accounts remain disconnected the following business day and verify the meter
does not indicate water consumption. If the meter indicates water consumption,
the meter will be locked and rechecked within the next five business days.
   (D)   When a meter is rechecked and the lock is broken or missing, the meter
will be pulled and a cut lock fee, pulled meter fee and reconnect fee will be
assessed to the account. All balances to include all applicable fees must be
paid in full for water service to be reinstated.
(1985 Code, § 12-40)
§ 51.49 DEFECTIVE METERS.
   In the event a water meter becomes defective, the customer shall be charged
at an average rate of consumption as shown by the meter for the three previous
months.
(1985 Code, § 12-41)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   STANDING AND PARKING
      
72.   PARADES, EVENTS, BLOCK PARTIES, PERFORMANCES, FILMING, AND PICKETING
PERMITS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of state law regulating traffic
   
70.02   Compliance with chapter
Provisions of Chapter
   
70.15   Drivers of governmental vehicle not exempt from this chapter
   
70.16   Special or emergency regulations
   
70.17   Unnecessary use of signaling device
   
70.18   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
70.19   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles prohibited
   
70.20   Inspection of vehicles; enforcement of chapter
   
70.21   Throwing glass or nails on street; removal
   
70.22   Obstructions to vision at street intersections; generally
   
70.23   Obstruction by trees and shrubs
   
70.24   Speed restrictions; animals ridden or driven on streets; human powered
vehicles
   
70.25   When decrease required
   
70.26   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk with vehicle
   
70.27   Careless driving
   
70.28   Operation of unsafe vehicle
   
70.29   “U” turns
   
70.30   Signs, signals and markings; traffic lanes
   
70.31   Prima facie evidence
Bicycles, Roller Skates and Other Recreational Vehicles
   
70.45   Use of coasters or toy vehicles on roadways
   
70.46   Roller skating
   
70.47   Manner of parking bicycle
   
70.48   Riding bicycle on sidewalks
Specific Cars
   
70.65   Metallic license plate for taxicab or other public car
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW REGULATING TRAFFIC.
   Unless otherwise specifically covered by this chapter, all of the provisions
and requirements of the general law of the state regulating traffic on
highways, as contained in S.C. Code Title 56, Chapter 5, as amended, and
insofar as the provisions can have application within the city, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this chapter as fully as though set out therein. All
persons within the city shall strictly comply with all of the regulations
imposed hereby, when so applicable.
(1985 Code, § 17-1)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 17-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions as to state law, S.C. Code § 56-5-730
PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER
§ 70.15 DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENTAL VEHICLE NOT EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, the state,
county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by
state statute.
(1985 Code, § 17-3)
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of road workers, S.C. Code § 56-5-800
§ 70.16 SPECIAL OR EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the City Administrator, shall have
authority to make, promulgate and enforce special or emergency traffic
regulations, including the designation of one-way streets, dangerous
intersections where traffic shall be required to slow or stop, school zones,
safety zones, parking meter zones and regulations as to parking, non-parking
and time limits for parking and cause to be erected or placed signs, signals
and other traffic control devices and restrict parking for the purpose of
enforcing the same. Any person failing or refusing to obey any regulation shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 17-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Devices required to be placed, S.C. Code § 56-5-940
§ 70.17 UNNECESSARY USE OF SIGNALING DEVICE.
   No signaling device shall be sounded except as a necessary warning of
danger, and then only by giving a short blast and not more often than is
necessary.
(1985 Code, § 17-5)
§ 70.18 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   No person shall ride on the outside of any vehicle, nor anywhere except
within the body thereof.
(1985 Code, § 17-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.19 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion.
(1985 Code, § 17-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.20 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES; ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   All officers of the Police Department may stop, examine and inspect any
vehicle which they may have reasonable cause to believe to be violating any of
the terms of this chapter or state Motor Vehicle Code and to require the
vehicles to be measured and weighed, or other examination as may be proper or
necessary to be made and to compel immediate compliance with all provisions of
this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 17-8)
Statutory reference:
   Safety inspections, S.C. Code § 56-5-5310
§ 70.21 THROWING GLASS OR NAILS ON STREET; REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or sidewalk, any
glass bottles, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, paper, trash or any other
substance, and any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown upon
any street any destructive or injurious material, shall immediately remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street from the vehicle.
(1985 Code, § 17-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Prohibitions on waste disposal, see also §§
50.077 and
93.086
§ 70.22 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   On corner lots in the city, there shall be no obstruction to vision between
a height of two feet and a height of ten feet, measured above the average
elevation of the existing surfaces of the intersecting streets at their center
lines, within the area formed by joining points on the property lines, measured
as follows; provided, however, this restriction shall not apply to buildings in
business districts:
   (A)   On property lines abutting streets 50 feet or less in right-of-way
width, the points on the property lines shall be not less than 25 feet from the
lot corner; and
   (B)   On property lines abutting streets more than 50 feet in right-of-way
width, the points on the property lines shall be 50 feet from the lot corner.
(1985 Code, § 17-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.23 OBSTRUCTION BY TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to plant, place or cause to grow any tree or
shrub on any roadway or street right-of-way, or in any area between a sidewalk
and a curb of the street or roadway within the city, except as authorized by
the city. Furthermore, the City Council is authorized to order the removal of
any tree or shrub growing in the areas upon a determination by the Chief of
Police that the tree or shrub is hazardous to traffic.
   (B)   Every bush, tree, plant or other article which obstructs clear view of
traffic is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the Director of Streets
and Sanitation is hereby empowered and directed to remove or trim the same to
alleviate the nuisance, without notice.
(1985 Code, § 17-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.24 SPEED RESTRICTIONS; ANIMALS RIDDEN OR DRIVEN ON STREETS; HUMAN POWERED
VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive, ride an animal or operate a vehicle propelled
by human power at a speed or under conditions that the animal or vehicle shall
not at all times be under full control and capable of being brought to a full
stop if circumstances require.
   (B)   In making a turn or crossing an intersection, no animal shall be
ridden or driven and no vehicle shall be propelled at a speed in excess of five
mph.
(1985 Code, § 17-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.25 WHEN DECREASE REQUIRED.
   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is within the limits set out herein
shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a curve or when
special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason
of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or
entering the street in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
(1985 Code, § 17-13)
§ 70.26 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK WITH VEHICLE.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(1985 Code, § 17-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.27 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle without care
and caution and full regard for the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Any person failing so to do shall be guilty of careless driving or
riding.
   (C)   The driving of any vehicle when the same, or any of its appliances is
not in proper or safe condition, shall be prima facie evidence of careless
driving.
(1985 Code, § 17-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.28 OPERATION OF UNSAFE VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street, any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in the unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times
equipped with lights, mirrors, safety glass, bumpers, mufflers, horns, tires,
brakes, steering and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required by the laws of the state, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of the laws of the state.
(1985 Code, § 17-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 56-5-4410
§ 70.29 “U” TURNS.
   "U" turns shall be permitted on any street, only when the movement can be
made with safety and without interfering with other traffic, except where
prohibited by an official sign.
(1985 Code, § 17-17) (Ord. 2021-023, passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   As to turning vehicle so as to proceed in opposite direction upon curve and
the like, see S.C. Code § 56-5-2140
§ 70.30 SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS; TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to temporarily mark off traffic
lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and directing the flow of
traffic, when, in the officer's judgment, the action is necessary. The Chief of
Police may secure all signs and markers necessary to implement the officer's
directions and place them on any street or part of street when he or she deems
it necessary.
(1985 Code, § 17-18)
§ 70.31 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The existence of signs and markers at any place within the city shall be
prima facie evidence that the signs were placed or erected by, and at the
direction of, the Chief of Police and in accordance with the provisions of the
chapter.
(1985 Code, § 17-19)
BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 70.45 USE OF COASTERS OR TOY VEHICLES ON ROADWAYS.
   No person riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar
device shall go upon any roadway.
(1985 Code, § 17-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.46 ROLLER SKATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate or use roller skates/blades/
boards/on the roads, streets or sidewalks in the commercial districts of the
city. It shall be lawful for any person to skate or use roller skates/blades/
boards on hiker/biker trails wherever located in the city during daylight hours
only, however, pedestrians shall have the right-of-way. It shall be lawful for
any person to skate or use roller skates/blades/boards on the roads, streets
and sidewalks in the residential districts of the city, during daylight hours
only, however, pedestrians shall have the right-of-way. Due care shall be
exercised at all times and at no time shall the person or persons skating or
using skates/blades/boards block or impede vehicular traffic.
(1985 Code, § 17-21) (Ord. 01-003, passed 3-13-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.47 MANNER OF PARKING BICYCLE.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in the manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(1985 Code, § 17-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.48 RIDING BICYCLE ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk, unless the sidewalk is
designated for bicycle use by proper sign and markings.
(1985 Code, § 17-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPECIFIC CARS
§ 70.65 METALLIC LICENSE PLATE FOR TAXICAB OR OTHER PUBLIC CAR.
   The owner of each vehicle licensed as a taxicab or other public car shall
obtain and cause to be affixed to the rear of the vehicle in a conspicuous
place, a metal plate to be furnished by the city, which plate shall have on it
words “Public Car” and the public car license number and be of substantially
similar design as, but of a different color from, the state license plate, and
the color of the plate to be changed annually.
(1985 Code, § 17-24)
CHAPTER 71: STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Unauthorized moving of parked vehicles
   
71.02   Parking prohibited for certain purposes
   
71.03   Parking within lines indicating parking space
   
71.04   Trucks or vehicles more than 20 feet long
   
71.05   Unattached trailers
   
71.06   Minimum width of roadway required to be free for traffic
   
71.07   Passenger zones and loading zones
   
71.08   Loading and unloading passengers
   
71.09   Running engines or other equipment while stopped or standing on street
   
71.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
71.11   Responsibility for illegal parking
   
71.12   Impounding unoccupied and unattended vehicles
   
71.13   Issuance of traffic citations
   
71.14   Consequences of failure to comply with traffic citations
   
71.15   Restrictions on cancellation or solicitation of cancellation of traffic
citation or summons
   
71.16   Obstructing street side mailboxes and newspaper receptacles; access and
egress to properties
   
71.17   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
§ 71.01 UNAUTHORIZED MOVING OF PARKED VEHICLES.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibited
area or away from a curb the distance as is unlawful.
(1985 Code, § 17-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 PARKING PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in such manner as to create a public
nuisance upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Advertising of any nature whatsoever; and
   (C)   Washing, greasing and repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(1985 Code, § 17-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 PARKING WITHIN LINES INDICATING PARKING SPACE.
   Wherever lines have been painted to indicate parking space, vehicles shall
be parked entirely within those lines.
(1985 Code, § 17-32)
§ 71.04 TRUCKS OR VEHICLES MORE THAN 20 FEET LONG.
   No person shall stand or park a bus, truck or other vehicle having an
overall length of more than 20 feet upon any street for a period of more than
one hour, except that the bus, truck or other vehicle may be stopped or parked
for the length of time as may be necessary for the pickup and loading or
unloading and delivery of passengers or materials. For the purpose of this
section, a trailer and its tractor unit shall be considered one vehicle.
(1985 Code, § 17-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 UNATTACHED TRAILERS.
   No person shall park a trailer or allow the same to stand at any point upon
any street unless the motor vehicle unit is at all times attached to the
trailer.
(1985 Code, § 17-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 MINIMUM WIDTH OF ROADWAY REQUIRED TO BE FREE FOR TRAFFIC.
   No person shall stand or park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner as
to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free
movement of vehicular traffic, except that a driver shall stop when necessary
in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals or a police
officer.
(1985 Code, § 17-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   For state law requiring that unobstructed width of highway opposite a
standing vehicle be left for free passage of vehicles when stopping, standing
or parking outside of business or residence districts, see S.C. Code § 56-5-
2510
§ 71.07 PASSENGER ZONES AND LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger loading zone.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to loading zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(1985 Code, § 17-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 LOADING AND UNLOADING PASSENGERS.
   No operator of a vehicle shall load or unload passengers, except when the
vehicle is stopped at the curb, and then only when the movement can be made
with safety.
(1985 Code, § 17-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 RUNNING ENGINES OR OTHER EQUIPMENT WHILE STOPPED OR STANDING ON STREET.
   No person shall allow the engine or other mechanical equipment on a motor
vehicle stopped or standing on a public street to continue to operate longer
than five minutes, unless movement of the vehicle is prevented by traffic
control signals or is physically blocked by other vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 17-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not stand or park upon any street
at any place other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand, respectively, except
that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any vehicle from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
passengers.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver
of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
the zone.
(1985 Code, § 17-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ILLEGAL PARKING.
   No person shall allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the
person's name to stand or park on any street in the city in violation of any of
the regulations of the city for the standing or parking of vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 17-40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 IMPOUNDING UNOCCUPIED AND UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   Any unoccupied and unattended vehicle found violating the terms of this
chapter may be removed and impounded by any police officer or duly authorized
person and shall be surrendered to the duly identified owner thereof only upon
payment of cost of impounding.
(1985 Code, § 17-41)
Statutory references:
   Abandoned vehicles, see S.C. Code, §§ 56-5-5810 et seq.
   Impounding and disposition, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-1610 et seq.
§ 71.13 ISSUANCE OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   A police officer finding any vehicle parked or standing in violation of any
city ordinance or state law may, in lieu of immediately issuing a summons to
its owner or driver, affix in a conspicuous place on the vehicle a traffic
citation requiring the owner or driver to post a specified bond within ten days
at a specified location within the city.
(1985 Code, § 17-42)
§ 71.14 CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   The traffic citation authorized by §
71.13 shall contain a warning that if the bond required by the citation is not
posted within ten days, it shall be increased by an additional specified amount
and that failure to comply with the requirements of the citation shall result
in the issuance of a summons.
(1985 Code, § 17-43)
§ 71.15 RESTRICTIONS ON CANCELLATION OR SOLICITATION OF CANCELLATION OF TRAFFIC
CITATION OR SUMMONS.
   No person shall cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation
or summons.
(1985 Code, § 17-44)
§ 71.16 OBSTRUCTING STREET SIDE MAILBOXES AND NEWSPAPER RECEPTACLES; ACCESS AND
EGRESS TO PROPERTIES.
   No person shall park a vehicle on the public street or right-of-way if it
would block, obstruct or otherwise interfere with access to street side
mailboxes, newspaper receptacles, or trash or refuse receptacles or containers.
No person shall park, stop or stand any vehicle on a public street or right-of-
way if it blocks or obstructs any portion of the driveway of a person, except
with permission of the property owner who owns, or the tenant who rents, the
driveway.
(Ord. 08-003, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No operator of a vehicle shall park or allow the vehicle to remain standing
in areas posted as fire lanes.
(Ord. 90-16, passed 9-11-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARADES, EVENTS, BLOCK PARTIES, PERFORMANCES, FILMING, AND
PICKETING PERMITS
Section
   
72.01   Title
   
72.02   Enforcement of other laws
   
72.03   Definitions
   
72.04   Permit required; exceptions
   
72.05   Application for permit
   
72.06   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
72.07   Notice of action on application
   
72.08   Approval of permit under alternative date, time, route or conditions
   
72.09   Duties of permittee
   
72.10   Public conduct
   
72.11   Payment of costs of services and equipment provided by city
   
72.12   Picketing
   
Appendix A: Picketing Table
§ 72.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Parade, Event, Block Party, Performance,
Filming and Picketing Regulation Ordinance of the City of Goose Creek." It
shall be applicable to parades, events, block parties, performances, filming,
and picketing conducted in whole or in part on property owned or controlled by
the city, such as a property leased by the city, or any public street or right-
of-way within the city.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.02 ENFORCEMENT OF OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the authority of any
officer to arrest a person engaged in any act or activity granted under this
chapter, if the conduct of such person violates the laws of the state,
provisions of this code, or other ordinances of the city, or unreasonably
obstructs the public streets and sidewalks of the city, or if such person
engages in acts that cause or would tend to cause a breach of the peace, or
undue disturbance, interference, or molestation of other persons making lawful
use of the space in a peaceful manner.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   BLOCK PARTY. A private outdoor gathering on a public street which involves
the closure of a street and may include live or taped music and the
distribution of food and beverages.
   EVENT. Any festival, concert or other announced public gathering upon any
property owned or controlled by the city, such as a property leased by the
city, or any public street or right-of-way within the city.
   FILMING. Any filming of movies, commercials, documentaries and other motion
pictures, video projects, or commercial photographs upon any public street,
right-of-way, or property of the city.
   OPEN EVENT. Any event which primarily promotes, entertainment, arts, dining,
athletic competition, political activity and is generally advertised as open to
the public at large without the necessity to enter by prior invitation or
purchase of a ticket; events are presumed to be OPEN EVENTS.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, foot race, bicycle race, ceremony, pageant, or
procession of any kind moving upon any public street or sidewalk of the city
which does not comply with normal traffic regulations.
   PERFORMANCE. Any public presentation, exhibition, fireworks display or
appearance upon any public street, right-of-way, plaza, or property of the
city.
   PICKETING AND PICKETS. Include demonstrating and demonstrators, and other
related first amendment activity.
   PRIVATE EVENT. A wedding, commitment ceremony, fundraiser, block party in a
residential neighborhood, and filming event; social activities requiring
limited admission for sponsors or invited guests may be treated as PRIVATE
EVENTS; events requiring paid admission or tickets may be treated as PRIVATE
EVENTS; events involving a state, national, or international official who has
special security details may be treated as a PRIVATE EVENT for the limited
purpose of assuring security.
   STREET PERFORMANCE. Acting, singing, playing one or more musical
instruments, dancing, miming, juggling, unicycling, stilt walking, doing magic
tricks, reciting, imitating statues, and engaging in similar acts of
entertainment when done on a city-owned or -controlled sidewalk, plaza, park,
or similar public space.
   STREET PERFORMER. Someone who engages in street performances.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall engage or participate in, aid, form or start any parade,
event, block party, performance or filming unless a permit is obtained from the
City Administrator. This section shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Funeral processions supervised by a licensed mortuary;
   (B)   Picketing as permitted by city ordinance; or
   (C)   A parade, event or performance hosted or sponsored by the city
including the Recreation
Department.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. A person seeking the issuance of a parade, event, block
party, performance or filming permit shall file an application with the city.
The application shall be filed not less than 30 days before the date on which
the parade, event, block party, performance or filming is to be conducted.
However, where good cause is shown, the city shall have the option to consider
any application which is filed less than 30 days before the date sought.
   (B)   Contents. The application shall be signed by the applicant, and shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the individuals or
organizations seeking to conduct such parade, event, block party, performance
or filming;
      (2)   The date when the proposed parade, event, block party, performance
or filming is to be conducted;
      (3)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point, or the area sought to be used or closed off for the parade, event, block
party, performance or filming;
      (4)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles
participating, and the types of animals and a description of the vehicles;
      (5)   The time when the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming will start and terminate;
      (6)   The location, by streets, of any assembly area and the time of such
assembly for parades; or the location of such street, plaza, park, or other
public area where persons will gather for an event, ceremony, or performance
for events other than parades;
      (7)   Provisions for sanitation facilities, crowd, noise and traffic
control, security and parking as pertinent for the event;
      (8)   If vehicular access will be prevented to any home or business
during their normal business hours for more than 15 minutes, proof of consent
by the property owner to such interruption of vehicular access;
      (9)   A description of food and beverages to be sold or distributed, and
if beverages containing alcohol are to be sold, then evidence of a state
permit, if needed, having been issued or applied for, and a limitation of such
beverages to beer and wine;
      (10)   Contacts for nearby occupants and owners.
         (a)   Substantiation that persons owning and occupying property within
500 feet of the site have been provided the name;
         (b)   Telephone numbers and address of the sponsor of the event;
         (c)   The telephone numbers must include the cell phone of one or more
persons who will have the ability to address potential problems with noise,
traffic or other concerns during the event;
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.06 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Criteria for issuance. The city shall issue a permit for a proposed
parade, event, block party, performance or filming unless it finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming will substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other
traffic contiguous to its route including whether it will block any persons
from being able to have vehicle access to their property without their advance
consent;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming will require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of
the city to properly police the line of movement and of contiguous areas that
adequate police protection cannot be provided to the remainder of the city;
      (3)   The concentration of persons, animals, equipment or vehicles at
assembly points or other areas will substantially interfere with adequate fire
and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas near such areas, or
will hinder the movement of firefighting equipment;
      (4)   The conduct of the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming is reasonably likely to result in violence to persons or property,
causing serious harm to the public;
      (5)   The route has been requested recurringly in the past year and is
too disruptive to residents or businesses.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The city shall require proof of liability
insurance in an amount of at least the caps in the South Carolina Tort Claims
Act and shall require the execution of an agreement to indemnify the city in
the event of any claims arising from the event.
   (C)   Adequate cleanup and sanitation must be provided. All permits shall
contain the implied condition that all areas shall be cleaned by the event
applicant and the applicant shall be liable for any costs incurred by the city
for additional cleaning activity.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.07 NOTICE OF ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   The Administration Department shall act upon the application for a permit
required by this chapter as expeditiously as possible, notifying the applicant
by mail of the decision. If the application is disapproved, the reasons
therefor shall be set out in writing.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.08 APPROVAL OF PERMIT UNDER ALTERNATIVE DATE, TIME, ROUTE OR CONDITIONS.
   The City Administrator, in denying an application for a permit under this
chapter, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade, event,
block party, performance or filming on a date, at a time, or over a route and
under different conditions from that requested by the applicant.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.09 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Generally. A permittee under this chapter shall comply with all permit
directions and conditions.
   (B)   Display or carrying of permit. The applicant, individual, or any
representative of the organization shall display the permit or carry it upon
his person during the parade, event, performance or filming.
   (C)   Special event vendor's permits. No event which features businesses or
organizations providing goods or services for compensation shall be issued an
event permit, unless the permittee under this chapter shall obtain for each
such business or organization a special event vendor's permit from the city in
accordance with such measures as the City Administrator shall prescribe. Each
permittee must designate an individual who will be responsible for identifying
all vendors and for collecting on behalf of the city all fees as provided in
this section.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.10 PUBLIC CONDUCT.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade, event, performance or filming, or with any person,
vehicle or animal participating or used in the event.
   (B)   Driving through parade or event. No driver of any vehicle shall drive
between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade, nor shall any driver drive
around or through any event or a properly designated or barricaded area.
   (C)   Parking on parade route or event location. The city shall have the
authority to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or
area properly designated or posted for a parade, event, performance or filming,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle
in violation thereof.
   (D)   Glass containers. No glass bottle, containers or cans may be sold or
distributed on the public right-of-way, and no patron may carry a glass bottle,
container or can on the public right-of-way during a parade, event,
performance, or filming. It shall be unlawful for any vendor to sell beverages
in glass containers for off-premise consumption at parades or events.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.11 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BY CITY.
   The city may impose reasonable fees and requirements upon the applicant as
are necessary to cover the cost of public services and equipment provided by
the city for the event. The city may require the payment of the cost of public
services including police, fire, or traffic officials in advance of the event.
The applicant or sponsor shall be responsible for cleanup after an event. The
city may require a cash bond to cover the cost of any additional expenses
including but not limited to clean-up expenses. The amount of the bond may be
set by the Administration Department to reflect the potential costs of
potential future expenses. If the bond is insufficient, the applicant and
sponsor shall be liable for the actual costs to the city, including clean-up,
whether conducted by public employees or private contractors.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 72.12 PICKETING.
   (A)   Conduct of picketing; penalty. For purposes of this section, PICKETING
means an organized effort to express publicly a point of view at a given place
with signs, oral statements, or the like in a systematic manner, which involves
walking or standing in the same area for a prolonged period of time. Peaceful
picketing in the furtherance of a lawful purpose shall be allowed in the city,
provided the picketing is done under the following conditions:
      (1)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks, on the grounds of
a city-controlled park or plaza, or in other city-owned areas or rights-of-way
normally used or reserved for pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on
the portion of a street used primarily for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Such picketers must have applied for and been issued a permit as
required under division (B) below.
      (3)   Such picketers may carry written or printed signs (which such term
shall be interpreted to include flags), provided the signs do not interfere
with the free use of the sidewalk or rights-of-way by other pedestrians. Such
signs, with reasonable use, shall be deemed to comply if they are composed of
paper, cardboard, poster board, cloth, vinyl, or similarly non-rigid material;
do not exceed one-thirty-second inches in thickness; do not exceed 20 inches by
30 inches or 600 square inches in the case of signs composed of paper,
cardboard, poster board, or similar material; and do not exceed four feet by
six feet in the case of signs composed of cloth, vinyl, or a similar material.
Signs exceeding these dimensions are presumed threats to safety.
      (4)   Such picketers on sidewalks or on right-of-way normally used or
reserved for pedestrian movement must march or stand single file and not
congregate so as to block any sidewalk, driveway, or business entrance. All
laws pertaining to the orderly flow of pedestrians must be obeyed.
      (5)   (a)   For public safety reasons, the following are prohibited in
the immediate proximity of pickets, and due notice shall be included in every
receipt of notice of intent to picket that these restrictions apply:
            1.   Open flames and combustible solids;
            2.   Sticks, poles, selfie sticks, or other similar elongated solid
objects capable of inflicting bodily harm as a striking or stabbing object,
excluding commercially available corrugated cardboard tubing as the supporting
article for signs, flags, and the like;
            3.   Backpacks, satchels, bags, coolers, or similar personally
carried containers exceeding six inches by eight inches by three inches, except
when said container is completely clear and see through;
            4.   Pursuant to S.C. Code Ann. § 23-31-520, the open care of any
firearm;
            5.   Any mechanical or handmade contrivance that launches any
projectile of solid, liquid, or gaseous composition, including aerosols/
pressurized canisters;
            6.   Any stabbing, cutting, slicing, or striking blade, whether of
metal or other solid composition;
            7.   Any striking object, such as a bat, stick, brass knuckles,
martial arts weapons, implement handles and the like, which would inflict
bodily injury;
            8.   Any facial mask, headgear, or cloth worn over any portion of
the face which prevents facial identification of a person 14 years of age or
older;
            9.   Any carried object that resembles or serves the purpose of a
shield;
            10.   Any armor or defensive covering that resembles or serves the
purpose of defensive body armor;
            11.   Carried signage exceeding the size restrictions set forth in
S.C. Code Ann. § 36-142(a)(3); and
            12.   Bicycles, automobiles, and mopeds.
         (b)   This division (5) shall not apply to law enforcement officers
while in the discharge of their duties.
      (6)   The organizer of a picket, or the person designated in the permit
as the one who will carry the permit shall be responsible for posting
conspicuous signage at the picketing location informing participants that open
carry firearms are prohibited for the duration of the picket.
      (7)   Picketing done contrary to this section shall be unlawful. Police
or city personnel may confiscate any of the items listed in the S.C. Code Ann.
§ 36-142(a)(5) if a picket participant refuses to remove the prohibited item
from the picketing site, with the exception of firearms in accordance with S.C.
Code Ann. § 23-31-520. A firearm or ammunition may be seized or confiscated
pursuant to lawful arrest.
   (B)   Picketing permit.
      (1)   No picket is required for picketing by a group of less than ten
individuals on a sidewalk, or by a group of less than 25 individuals on the
grounds of a city-controlled park or plaza, or in other city-owned areas or
rights-of-way normally used or reserved for pedestrian movement.
      (2)   A permit application must be submitted to the City Administrator or
his or her designee in a form approved by the Administration Department and in
accordance with the time limits and guidelines established in Appendix A. The
Administration Department shall make the picketing permit application form
available online, and at multiple locations throughout the city, including City
Hall and the municipal complex. The permit application shall include the
following information:
         (a)   The name, address, and contact telephone number of the organizer
of the picket;
         (b)   The name, address, and contact telephone number of the person
who will carry the permit if different from the organizer;
         (c)   The specific location where the picket is to take place;
         (d)   The date and time the picket will begin and end; and
         (e)   The anticipated number of participants and the basis on which
this estimate is made.
      (3)   Upon application in accordance with this division (B), the City
Administrator or his or her designee shall immediately issue a permit at no
charge. If an application is submitted for the same date, time, and location as
an application for which a permit has already been issued, a permit shall be
issued for a location as close as reasonably possible to the location set forth
in the application; permits issued are subject to amendment in order to conform
with this provision. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a picketing permit shall
not be issued for the two hours preceding or the two hours following the time
period for which picketing permit has been issued for the same date and
location; permits issued are subject to amendment in order to conform with this
provision. The permit shall contain all information stated in the application.
The organizer of a picket, or the person designated in the application as the
one who will carry the permit, shall be responsible for maintaining the permit
and shall present it when so requested by a law enforcement officer or other
city official. A person or entity hosting a picket under this section must post
signs at the picket indicating that open carrying of firearms is not allowed at
the picket. The city reserves the right to post additional signs indicating
that open carrying of firearms is prohibited at the picket.
      (4)   Spontaneous pickets which are occasioned by news or affairs coming
into public knowledge less than 48 hours prior to such picket may be conducted
in front of City Hall and the organizer(s) first will be deemed to have applied
for a picketing permit under this division, and a permit shall be issued at no
charge as soon as possible. In the event the designated area cannot safely
accommodate the number of persons assembled, a shift commander or supervisor of
the Police Department of the city shall direct the picketers to a suitable
alternate location. For the avoidance of doubt, the requirement to pose signs
as set forth in Appendix A applies to spontaneous pickets.
   (C)   Interference with pickets. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere physically with such pickets in the use of the sidewalk or address
profane, indecent, abusive, or threatening language to or at such pickets or
others to breach the peace.
   (D)   Crowd dispersal. A shift commander or supervisor of the police
department of the city may, in the event of the assemblage of persons in such
numbers as to tend to intimidate picketers pursuing their lawful objective
through numbers alone or through use of inflammatory words or threatening
gestures that are ordinarily used to intimidate people, direct the dispersal of
persons so assembled, and any police officer may arrest any person who fails to
leave the place of assemblage when so directed by the police.
   (E)   Restrictions. Persons engaging in picketing activity cannot do so
inside an area designated as an event area for which a permit has been granted
to another individual or group under this chapter, if the picketing behavior
has the effect of interfering with, hampering, hindering, or getting in the way
of those participating in the permitted event in accordance with its purposes
or with the general public making use of the space for its ordinary and
customary purposes. Whenever any police officer or municipal employee charged
with monitoring or supervising event activity determines the picketing behavior
is interfering with, hampering, hindering, or getting the way of others, as
provided in this section, then the officer or employee may direct the picketers
to relocate to other public space in reasonable proximity where such conduct
can continue, if lawful, so long as the picketing does not interfere with,
hamper, hinder, or get in the way of persons participating in the event for its
intended purposes or of members of the general public making use of the public
space for its ordinary and customary purposes.
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
APPENDIX A: PICKETING TABLE
   An organizer of a picket that the organizer knows or should reasonably know
will be by a group of a size set forth in this table shall give at least the
corresponding minimum advance notice of intent to picket set forth in this
table to the City Administration or his or her designee in order for a permit
to be issued.
 
Group Size       Place for Picket                   Minimum Advance Notice
                                                    Required
11-50            Sidewalk                           3 hours
25-50            Any public place allowed under §  3 hours
                 72.12(A) except sidewalks
51-100           Any public place allowed under §  48 hours
                 72.12(A)
101-200          Any public place allowed under §  72 hours
                 72.12(A)
201-400          Any public place allowed under §  5 calendar days
                 72.12(A)
Greater than 400 Any public place allowed under §  7 calendar days
                 72.12(A)
 
(Ord. 2021-033, passed 12-14-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.    SMOKING
      
95.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
96.   LARGE OUTDOOR EVENTS ON PROPERTY NOT OWNED OR CONTROLLED BY THE CITY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Enforcement
   
90.03   Maximum number of dogs and/or cats allowed per residence
   
90.04   Restraint
   
90.05   Nuisance; animal(s)
   
90.06   Animal care
   
90.07   Rabies control; inoculation
   
90.08   Rabid animals
   
90.09   Seizure of animals at-large; disposition
   
90.10   Redemption
   
90.11   Adoption
   
90.12   Injured, diseased and dead animals
   
90.13   Slaughterhouse and the like; prohibited
   
90.14   Removal of dog and cat excrement required; exceptions
   
90.15   Beekeeping
   
90.16   Keeping of domestic fowl
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT or MALTREATMENT. A situation in which an owner or person charged
with the responsibility of an animal does not provide or arrange for adequate
food, water, shelter and care, transfer ownership to a responsible person or
does not provide for humane disposal of the animal.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person employed by the city as the enforcement
officer of the provisions of this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the city for the purpose of
impounding, care or destruction of animals found in violation of this chapter.
   ANIMALS. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, which shall be
held to include all brute creatures.
   APIARY. The assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location.
   AT-LARGE. An animal not under the restraint and control of its owner, as
required by the provisions of this chapter, and off of the owner's real or
personal property limits.
   BEEKEEPER. A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of bees.
   CHICKEN. A domesticated bird (of the species Gallus domesticus) that serves
as a source of eggs and/or meat.
   COLONY. An aggregate of bees consisting principally of workers, but having,
when perfect one queen and at times drones, brood, combs, and honey.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by this
chapter.
   HEN. A female chicken.
   HIVE. The receptacle inhabited by a colony that is manufactured for that
purpose.
   HONEY BEE. All life stages of the common domestic honey bee, apis mellifera
species.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously, intramuscularly
or otherwise, of antirabic vaccine as approved by the State Department of
Health and Environmental Control and by the United States Department of
Agriculture-Veterinary Biologics Division.
   OWNER. Any person who:
      (1)   Has a right of property in an animal;
      (2)   Keeps or harbors an animal or who has it in the person's care or
acts as its custodian; and
      (3)   Permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by
the person.
   PEN. A fully enclosed and covered area attached to a coop where the hen(s)
can roam.
   PET. Any animal or fowl kept for pleasure rather than utility or commercial
purposes.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal found at-large, making loud or objectionable
sounds, chasing vehicles or pedestrians, behaving in any manner which is deemed
to be doing damage to property or to public health and well-being, is known to
have bitten one or more persons, has been determined by the Animal Control
Officer to be detriment to public health, welfare or safety or that constitutes
a physical threat to human beings or to other animals by virtue of its specific
training or demonstrated behavior.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person's commands, or within the real
or personal property limits of its owner.
   ROOSTER. A male chicken.
   SPAYED FEMALES. Any female dog or cat which has been operated on to prevent
conception.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal:
      (1)   With a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals;
      (2)   That attacks a human being or domestic animal without provocation;
or
      (3)   That is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting, or that is trained for fighting.
(1985 Code, § 4-1) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994; Am. Ord. 17-021, passed 10-
10-2017; Am. Ord. 2023-008, passed 3-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see S.C. Code §§ 47-1-10, 47-3-10, 47-3-410 and 47-5-20
§ 90.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Animal Control
Officers of the city, as follows.
   (A)   The above shall respond to complaints regarding animals.
   (B)   Persons empowered to enforce this chapter shall have the authority to
destroy any animal which appears to be vicious and may endanger their safety or
the safety of other persons or pets.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officers, may if necessary, obtain a search warrant
to enter any premises upon which it is suspected a violation of this chapter
exists. The officer may then demand to examine the animal and take possession
of the animal when, in the officer's opinion, it requires removal from the
premises.
   (D)   No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest the Animal Control
Officers in the execution of their duties, or seek to release any pet in the
custody of the Animal Control Officers except as provided herein.
   (E)   When an animal is found in violation of any one point of this chapter,
it need not be impounded; but the Animal Control Officers, at their discretion,
may issue to its owner, a municipal ordinance summons for the violation.
   (F)   Any person reporting a violation of this chapter must produce personal
identification to a responding officer, who will make it a matter of public
record.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false statement to
anyone with enforcement powers in regard to this chapter, in an attempt to deny
ownership or possession of an animal.
(1985 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS AND/OR CATS ALLOWED PER RESIDENCE.
   (A)   A total of three dogs and/or cats may be kept or harbored at any
residence without a permit. Up to six dogs and/or cats may be kept or harbored
at any residence, provided the owner of the residence obtains a permit from the
city for the additional dogs and/or cats over three. The permit fee, for each
additional dog and/or cat, shall be $25 annually. A permit, issued pursuant to
the provisions of this section, is issued on a conditional basis and may be
revoked upon conviction of a public nuisance offense as set out in §
90.05.
   (B)   A person whose conditional permit is revoked shall reduce the number
of dogs and/or cats kept or harbored at a residence to no more than three dogs
and/or cats, and the person will be denied the right to reapply for a
conditional permit for a period of two years from the time of revocation. The
Animal Control Officers of the city shall have the authority to revoke a
conditional permit as provided in this section, however, any person aggrieved
by this provision shall have the right to appeal the revocation to the City
Administrator whose decision shall be final.
   (C)   A person cited for having more than three dogs and/or cats that are
not permitted will be denied the opportunity to obtain a permit when, in the
opinion of the Animal Control Officer, the failure to obtain a permit was
willful. Upon such a determination by the Animal Control Officer, the person
shall be required to reduce the number of dogs and/or cats kept or harbored to
no more than three dogs and/or cats, and the person shall be denied the right
to apply for a conditional permit for a period of two years.
(1985 Code, § 4-3) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994)
§ 90.04 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any animal to
permit the same to run-at-large at any time within the city. All animals shall
be secured by a leash or lead under the control of a responsible person and
obedient to that person's commands when the animal(s) are off or removed from
the real or personal property limits of its owner.
   (B)   No domestic animal shall be permitted to be on school grounds, in a
shopping area or similar public place unless on a leash at all times.
   (C)   The owner shall confine, within a building or secure enclosure, every
vicious animal and shall not take the animal out of the building or enclosure
unless the animal is securely muzzled and under restraint.
   (D)    No person shall fail to exercise proper care and control of the
person's animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (E)   Every female pet in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such manner that the pet does not create a nuisance by attracting
other pets. This shall not be construed so as to prevent contact with other
pets for the purpose of planned breeding.
(1985 Code, § 4-4) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law as to dogs, see S.C. Code § 47-3-50
§ 90.05 NUISANCE; ANIMAL(S).
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in such a manner as to constitute or allow it to become a public
nuisance.
   (B)   In addition, the following acts or actions by an owner of any animal
are hereby declared to be a public nuisance under this section and to be
unlawful:
      (1)   Failure to exercise sufficient restraint necessary to control an
animal as required by the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone
other than its owner, including, but not limited to, turning over garbage
containers or damaging vegetation;
      (3)   Maintaining a vicious animal;
      (4)   Maintaining animals in unsanitary conditions which are dangerous to
the animal or the public health, welfare or safety;
      (5)   Maintaining his or her premises or other property in a manner that
is offensive, annoying or dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the
public because of the number, density or location of the animals on the owner's
premises or other property (see §
137.03(I));
      (6)   Allowing or permitting an animal to bark, whine, howl or yowl, in
an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion, or make other noise in such a
manner so as to result in a serious annoyance or interference with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of adjoining or nearby properties;
      (7)   Keeping an animal that is diseased and dangerous to public health;
      (8)   Keeping an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at,
attacks or barks at pedestrians, bicycles or vehicles; and
      (9)   Failing to confine or control a female pet in heat in such a manner
as not to create a nuisance by attracting other animals.
(1985 Code, § 4-5) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide the person's animals with sufficient,
good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection from the
weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering and with humane care
and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment, overload, overwork
or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight or
other combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (C)   No owner of an animal shall abandon the animal.
   (D)   No person except a licensed veterinarian who is qualified to perform
such an operation shall crop a dog's ears.
   (E)   No person shall give away any live animal, reptile or bird as a prize
for, or an inducement to enter, any contest, game or other competition, or as
an inducement to enter a place of amusement or offer the vertebrate as an
incentive to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for the
purpose of attracting trade.
   (F)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who strikes a domestic animal
shall stop at once and render the assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report the injury or death to the animal's owner. In the event the
owner cannot be ascertained and located, the operator shall at once report the
incident to the Police Department.
   (G)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal,
provided that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on the person's
own property common rat poison mixed with vegetable substances.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to raise any kind of fowl, other than chickens,
pigeons, parakeets, parrots, mynah birds and canaries within the city.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to raise or keep horses, cattle, sheep, goats,
swine and other farm animals within the city.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or any other person willfully to
injure or kill any animal by any means causing it unnecessary fright or pain,
and it shall further be unlawful for the owner or any person, by neglect or
otherwise, to cause or allow any animal to endure pain, suffering or injury.
(1985 Code, § 4-6) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994; Am. Ord. 2023-008, passed 3-
14-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 RABIES CONTROL; INOCULATION.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any pet within the city for longer
than 60 days unless the pet has been inoculated against rabies, as provided
herein. Any animals, wild or otherwise, for which there is no known rabies
vaccination, that can carry and transmit the rabies virus, shall be prohibited
from being kept or harbored within the city limits.
   (B)   The pet shall have received, as evidenced by a certificate which has
not expired, an inoculation from a licensed graduate veterinarian using a
vaccine which has been approved by the State Department of Health and
Environmental Control.
   (C)   A certificate of the State Department of Health and Environmental
Control of pet rabies vaccination will be issued by a licensed graduate
veterinarian for each pet, stating the name and address of the owner, the name,
breed, color and markings, age, sex of animal and the veterinary or
pharmaceutical control number of the vaccination.
   (D)   Coincident with the issuance of the certificate, the licensed graduate
veterinarian shall also furnish a serially numbered metal license tag bearing
the same number and year as the certificate. The metal license tag shall bear
the name of the veterinarian who administered the vaccination and shall at all
times be attached to a collar or harness worn by the pet for which the
certificate and tag has been issued, except when the pet is in an enclosed
confinement.
   (E)   The owner shall have a valid certificate of rabies inoculation readily
available for inspection by competent authority at all times.
   (F)   In the event that a rabies tag is lost, the owner will obtain a
duplicate tag without delay.
   (G)   If there is a change in ownership of a pet during the valid period of
immunization, the new owner must have the current certificate of inoculation
transferred to the owner's name.
   (H)   A certificate of rabies immunization issued by a licensed veterinarian
from another state will be accepted as valid evidence provided it is less than
one year old.
(1985 Code, § 4-7) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 47-5-60
§ 90.08 RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   Whenever an animal is affected by rabies, suspected of being affected
by rabies or has been bitten by an animal known or suspected to be affected by
rabies, the owner of the animal or any person having knowledge thereof, shall
forthwith notify the Animal Control Officer and the County Health Department,
stating precisely where the animal may be found.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer, in conjunction with the Health Department,
shall arrange for the supervised confinement of any animal which has bitten a
person. The confinement may be on the premises of the owner if the owner will
sign an agreement assuming total responsibility for the safe confinement of the
animal. Confinement may be at the animal shelter, a private animal shelter,
veterinary hospital or Humane Society shelter at the owners’ option and
expense.
   (C)   Any animal which has bitten a person must be confined for a period of
at least ten days. The County Health Department or the Animal Control Officer
will be permitted by the owner to determine whether the animal shows symptoms
of rabies. No person shall obstruct or interfere with the Animal Control
Officer or the County Health Department in making the examination.
   (D)   The County Health Department shall serve notice, in writing, upon the
owner of an animal known to have been bitten by an animal known or suspected of
being affected by rabies, requiring the owner to confine the animal for a
period of not less than six months, except that animals properly treated with
antirabic vaccine shall be confined for a period of not less than three months.
(1985 Code, § 4-8) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS AT-LARGE; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Any domestic animal running-at-large may be taken up by the Animal
Control Officers, or any of the persons empowered to enforce this chapter, and
transported to the animal control shelter and there confined in a humane manner
until redeemed or disposed of as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the animal shelter to keep accurate and
detailed records of seizures and disposition of all animals coming into its
custody. Such records will be kept according to the ordinances of Berkeley
County.
   (C)   Immediately after impounding any domestic animal, the Animal Control
Officer shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owner of its impoundment
and to inform the owner of the conditions whereby the owner can regain custody
of the animal.
   (D)   Pets or animals not redeemed by their owners within 14 days after
notification, or before the expiration of five days in the event of a non-owner
identified animal, shall become the property of the Berkeley County Animal
Shelter, and may be placed for adoption or euthanized at the discretion of
animal shelter personnel. However, animal shelter personnel shall not euthanize
any positively identifiable dog, as established by S.C. Code 1976 §§ 47-3-513
et seq., as amended, until compliance with § 47-3-540 has been achieved. For
the purposes of this division (D), it shall be deemed that the owner is
notified when the animal control officer and/or the animal shelter personnel
sends written notice, postage prepaid, to the best-known address of the owner,
whether or not the owner actually receives the notice, or when the animal
control officer and/or the animal shelter personnel makes telephone contact
with the owner. Such notification shall at a minimum identify the animal and
shall advise the owner that he or she has 14 days from the date of notification
to pay all redemption fees and redeem the animal or the animal shall become the
property of the Berkeley County Animal Shelter.
   (E)   Any animal determined to be abandoned by the animal control officer
shall be impounded by the animal shelter.
   (F)   Free-roaming cats shall be allowed in the City of Goose Creek as long
as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The cat must be spayed or neutered;
      (2)   The cat must be microchipped;
      (3)   The cat must be vaccinated for rabies, feline viral
rhinotracheitis, calicivirus, and panleukopenia; and
      (4)   The cat must be ear tipped; or
      (5)   The cat must be scheduled to be sterilized, microchipped,
vaccinated and ear tipped.
(1985 Code, § 4-9) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994; Am. Ord. 2023-004, passed 1-
10-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine of dogs found at-large, see S.C. Code § 47-3-40
§ 90.10 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Resume possession of animal. The owner shall be entitled to resume
possession of an impounded animal, except as herein provided in the cases of
certain animals, upon compliance with the rabies vaccination and proper
identification requirements and the payment of redemption fees herein set
forth.
   (B)   Apply for redemption. The owner of an impounded animal must apply for
the redemption of the animal. The animal may not be released unless authorized
by the Animal Control Officer with assurance from the owner that proper care
and custody will be maintained.
   (C)   Redemption fees. The fees as established and approved by City Council,
and on file with the City Clerk, shall be collected from the owner by the
Animal Control Officer and turned over to the Finance Director.
(1985 Code, § 4-10) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994)
§ 90.11 ADOPTION.
   (A)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter may, at the
end of the legal detention period, have its title transferred to the Humane
Society, the SPCA or be adopted by a person deemed to be a responsible and
suitable owner, who will agree to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
All required fees must be paid at the time of adoption.
   (B)   No un-spayed female pet, which has been impounded by reason of its
being a stray, shall be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter, unless
the prospective owner has arranged to have the pet spayed or unless this
requirement is waived by the Animal Control Officer.
(1985 Code, § 4-11) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994)
§ 90.12 INJURED, DISEASED AND DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Anyone who strikes a pet with a motor vehicle or bicycle and injures
or kills the pet must, if the owner thereof cannot be found, notify the Animal
Control Officer immediately. The Animal Control Officer will then take the
necessary steps to provide for the proper treatment or disposal of the pet.
   (B)   The city is authorized to enter into agreements with licensed
veterinarians for the care of injured pets. If the owner cannot be located, the
city will pay for reasonable expenses incurred.
   (C)   Any pet received by a veterinarian in critical condition from wounds,
injuries or disease may be destroyed at the veterinarian's discretion if the
owner cannot be contacted within 12 hours. If the pet is suffering great pain,
it may be destroyed immediately.
   (D)   The owner of any pet which dies shall immediately provide for its
burial or cremation if the owner knows of its death and the location of its
remains. If the owner fails to do so within three hours, the Animal Control
Officer shall arrange for the disposal and the owner shall be required to pay
the cost thereof.
   (E)   The city shall collect, or cause to be collected, all dead domestic
animals found on public grounds or highways of the city. If the animal is
identifiable, the city will notify the owner of the animal as soon as
practical.
   (F)   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, or one
suspected of having been exposed to rabies or which has bitten a person, nor
remove the animal from the jurisdiction of the county without written
permission of the Health Department. An exception to the preceding requirement
is in the event of the possibility of the animal's escape or additional biting,
in which case the animal is to be killed and the County Health Department
notified immediately.
   (G)   (1)   In the event a suspect stray animal has bitten a person, the
animal will be seized and the county Health Department contacted for necessary
forms for processing.
      (2)   The animal will then be taken to a consenting veterinarian who will
euthanize the animal and remove the head.
      (3)   Once the head is removed, the county Health Department will pick up
and ship the head to the state authorities for examination.
(1985 Code, § 4-12) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.13 SLAUGHTERHOUSE AND THE LIKE; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be licensed or allowed to establish, in any manner or form,
any butcher pen, slaughterhouse, abattoir or to butcher or slaughter cattle,
swine, goats or calves within the city or in close proximity to the city as to
cause discomfort, danger of infection or unpleasant odors to come within the
city.
(1985 Code, § 4-13) (Ord. 94-005, passed 9-13-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.14 REMOVAL OF DOG AND CAT EXCREMENT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or having custody or
control of a dog or cat to fail to remove immediately the dog/cat's excrement
from any public or private property other than property owned or occupied by
the person owning, keeping or having custody or control of the dog or cat. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to seeing-eye dogs used by blind
persons or to dogs used by police officers for law enforcement or tracking
purposes.
(1985 Code, § 4-14) (Ord. 98-003, passed 7-14-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.15 BEEKEEPING.
   In regards to the keeping of bees on residential property:
   (A)   No person is permitted to keep more than the following numbers of
colonies on any lot within the city, based upon the size o configuration of the
apiary lot:
      (1)   One-half acre or smaller lot; two colonies;
      (2)   Larger than one-half but smaller than three-fourths acre; lot four
colonies;
      (3)   Larger than three-fourths acre lot but smaller than one acre lot;
six colonies;
      (4)   One acre but smaller than five acres; eight colonies; and
      (5)   Larger than five acres; no restriction.
   (B)   Hives shall be located at least 20 feet from all property lines. The
opening of the hive shall be oriented away from adjoining properties;
   (C)   For colonies located within 25 feet of a property boundary, a flyway
barrier at least six feet in height consisting of a solid wall, fence, or dense
hedge parallel to the property line and extending ten feet beyond the apiary in
each direction is required;
   (D)   Hives not being actively maintained shall be removed.
(Ord. 17-021, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 90.16 KEEPING OF DOMESTIC FOWL.
   The keeping of hens shall be in compliance with the following, in addition
to any zoning and building regulations that may be applicable to the
construction of coops and pens.
   (A)   No person shall keep hens on his or her premises within the city
without first obtaining a completed and approved application (renewable
annually) along with an annual compliance inspection and payment of a fee as
set by the City Council. As part of the application, the applicant shall sign
an agreement pledging to abide by the provisions of this section to allow the
premises to be inspected by the city at all reasonable times so as to assure
compliance.
   (B)   Location. Hens may only be kept on single-family residential
properties. Renters of single- family residential properties must provide
evidence of the property owner's consent to keep hens on the premise.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to raise hens for commercial purposes within the
city limits or to sell eggs laid by hens kept in the city limits.
   (D)   Allowed number of chickens. One chicken per 2,500 square feet is
allowed per parcel, with a total maximum of four chickens allowed per parcel
regardless of lot size. Roosters are prohibited.
   (E)   Shelter requirements.
      (1)   Hens must be confined in a coop not less than 18 inches in height
and with a minimum square feet of floor area of two square feet per hen over
four months of age, connected to a pen of not less than nine square feet for
one bird; 12 square feet for two birds; 16 square feet for three birds; or 20
square feet for four birds, which shall be fully enclosed.
      (2)   Coops and pens shall not exceed six feet in height measured from
the ground.
      (3)   Coops must be completely enclosed and constructed in a uniform
manner of a sturdy material that provides protection from potential predators
and the elements.
      (4)   Coops must be properly ventilated.
      (5)   Pens must be constructed of a fencing material that prevents
potential predators and rodents from getting in and that prevents the hens from
escaping.
      (6)   The coop and pen must be maintained in good condition and working
order.
   (F)   Location of shelter structures and perimeter fences.
      (1)   Coops and pens must be located in the backyard of a single-family
residence and must be screened from the front, side, and rear property lines by
shrubbery or a privacy fence so as not to be visible from adjoining properties
and from the street.
      (2)   Pens, coops, and enclosures shall be at least five feet from any
property line. The structure shall require a permit to be issued by the city.
      (3)   A building permit shall be obtained from the city for the
construction of shelter structures and perimeter fences.
   (G)   Animal welfare and sanitation.
      (1)   Chickens shall have continuous access to adequate, clean food and
water.
      (2)   All grains and food stored for the use of hens shall be kept in a
rodent proof container.
      (3)   No person shall slaughter hens on the premises.
      (4)   All premises on which hens are kept or maintained shall be kept
reasonably clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents.
   (H)   Access.
      (1)   Hens shall not be kept in an accessory or principal structure. An
exception may be made for hens under four months in age to be temporarily kept
in an accessory structure to facilitate the regulation of their temperature.
      (2)   Hens must be contained within the coop or pen whenever unattended;
however, when attended by the owner, may be in a yard completely fenced in by a
fence at least four feet in height.
      (3)   Hens must be confined to the owner's premises at all times, may not
roam at large, and must be secured in the coop from sunset to sunrise each day.
   (I)   Nuisance prevention.
      (1)   The coop, the pen, and surroundings must be cleaned frequently
enough to reasonably control odor.
      (2)   Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an
unsanitary condition or causes an unreasonable amount of odor detectible on
another property.
      (3)   Hens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance
to the occupants of adjacent property.
      (4)   Dead animal carcasses shall be properly and safely disposed of
within 24 hours as recommended by the applicable health department.
   (J)   Denial or revocation of a permit.
      (1)   A permit to keep hens may be suspended, revoked, or not issued by
the city where there is a risk to public health or safety or for any violation
of, or failure to comply with, any provision of other applicable ordinances or
laws.
      (2)   An Animal Control or Code Enforcement Officer may enter and inspect
any property containing a coop or pen at any reasonable time for the purpose of
investigating either an actual or suspected violation or to ascertain
compliance or noncompliance with this chapter. When the Animal Control or Code
Enforcement Officer finds a violation to have occurred, the officer shall give
written notice to the owner. If said violation is not remedied within ten days,
the Officer may issue a citation to appear in court to answer to the charges.
Any owner found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine and revocation of any permits
for the raising and keeping of chickens.
      (3)   If a permit is revoked, the owner shall remove the birds from the
property within 15 days of the revocation and remove the coop and pen within 30
days.
   (K)   Nothing in this amendment to this chapter shall be deemed to override
private deed restrictions or homeowner/neighborhood association requirements
that prohibit or regulate chickens or farm animals on the affected property.
(Ord. 2023-008, passed 3-14-2023)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Fire service outside city; limitations on rendering
   
91.02   Liability of city
   
91.03   Adoption of Fire Codes
   
91.04   Fire causing danger
   
91.05   Obstructing fire equipment
   
91.06   Congregating at fires
   
91.07   Riding on city fire equipment
   
91.08   Tampering with fire equipment
   
91.09   Adoption of the standard Fire Prevention Code
Fire Inspections; Unsafe Conditions
   
91.25   Annual building inspections
   
91.26   Quarterly building inspections
   
91.27   Reports of investigation
   
91.28   Fire hazards to be remedied
   
91.29   Unsafe buildings condemned; removal and the like
   
91.30   Fire investigation
   
91.31   Recordation of fire reports
Fireworks; Explosives
   
91.45   Explosives; permit
   
91.46   Prohibition on use of fireworks
   
91.47   Toy caps and the like; excepted
   
91.48   Other exceptions
   
91.49   Public displays; authorized
   
91.50   Permits
   
91.51   Sale of fireworks prohibited
   
91.52   Transportation and storage of fireworks
   
91.53   Identification and marking of fireworks
   
91.54   Storage near flammable material
   
91.55   Unlawful trespass by projectile
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIRE SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY; LIMITATIONS ON RENDERING.
   No fire protection service shall be rendered outside the city by the Fire
Department, except under the following conditions:
   (A)   To protect property within the city threatened by fire from outside
the city;
   (B)   Where human life is in danger;
   (C)   To provide mutual aid fire protection under the terms of mutual aid
agreements entered into by the city; and
   (D)   Fire protection service calls made outside the city shall be answered
only when, in the discretion of the Fire Chief or fire officer in charge, the
call will not jeopardize the safety or property of persons within the corporate
limits of the city.
(1985 Code, § 10-1)
§ 91.02 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   Section
91.01 shall not be construed to bind the city to answer any fire call outside
of the city when the absence of firefighters and equipment would jeopardize
persons or property within the city, and the provisions of §
91.01 shall not be construed to make the city liable for any fire damage inside
or outside the city.
(1985 Code, § 10-2)
§ 91.03 ADOPTION OF FIRE CODES.
   The National Fire Codes, 1984 Edition of the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) and all subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by
the city as the Fire Regulations and Fire Prevention Code of the city, and the
provisions of the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein.
(1985 Code, § 10-3)
§ 91.04 FIRE CAUSING DANGER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to ignite, kindle or set any
fire that creates a substantial risk of injury to any person or damage to
property of another within the city.
(1985 Code, § 10-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 OBSTRUCTING FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to fire
equipment at a fire or at an entrance to the fire station.
(1985 Code, § 10-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 CONGREGATING AT FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to congregate in the streets at the
scene of a fire in such a manner as to interfere with the Fire Department.
(1985 Code, § 10-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 RIDING ON CITY FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for unauthorized persons to ride on any city fire
equipment at any time without the consent of the Fire Chief.
(1985 Code, § 10-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 TAMPERING WITH FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to use or tamper with
any equipment of the Fire Department without the express consent of the Fire
Chief.
   (B)   EQUIPMENT shall be construed to mean all vehicles, firefighting
apparatus, supplies, facilities or other material belonging to the Fire
Department.
(1985 Code, § 10-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 ADOPTION OF THE STANDARD FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The Standard Fire Prevention Code, 1991 Edition, as published by the
Southern Building Code Congress International, is hereby adopted and shall have
full force and effect within the corporate limits of the City of Goose Creek,
South Carolina.
(Ord. 93-002, passed 4-20-1993)
FIRE INSPECTIONS; UNSAFE CONDITIONS
§ 91.25 ANNUAL BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   At least once in each year, the Chief of the Fire Department or a deputy
shall make a general inspection of all public buildings in the corporate limits
of the city and ascertain if the laws and ordinances in reference to fire
protection are complied with. It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire
Department to notify the occupant and owner of all premises of any defects or
hazards found in this general inspection and see that they are properly
corrected.
(1985 Code, § 10-20)
§ 91.26 QUARTERLY BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   Once in every three months, the Chief of the Fire Department or a deputy
shall make a personal inspection of every public building within the fire
limits and shall especially inspect the attic if applicable. The Inspector
shall make other inspections as may be required by the State Fire Marshal and
report all defects or hazards found in any building, upon a form furnished to
the Fire Chief by the State Fire Marshal. The Chief of the Fire Department
shall notify the owner or occupant of buildings of any defects or hazards and
notify them to correct the same within a reasonable time.
(1985 Code, § 10-21)
§ 91.27 REPORTS OF INVESTIGATION.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall report before February 15 of each
year, the number and dates of general and quarterly inspections during the
preceding year ending December 31, upon forms furnished by the State Fire
Marshal and furnish the other information and make the other reports as shall
be called for by the State Fire Marshal.
(1985 Code, § 10-22)
Statutory reference:
   Inspections by Chief, see S.C. Code §§ 5-25-120 et seq.
§ 91.28 FIRE HAZARDS TO BE REMEDIED.
   Upon discovery of a fire hazard by the Fire Chief or a designated
representative, the owner or occupant of the property which constitutes a fire
hazard, or the owner or occupant of the property in or on which a fire hazard
exits, shall be notified in writing by the Fire Chief and directed to begin
work to remedy the hazardous condition within five working days after notice,
which work shall continue until the condition is remedied. Failure to remedy
the hazardous condition shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 10-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.29 UNSAFE BUILDINGS CONDEMNED; REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   The Fire Chief shall have the power to condemn, as unsafe, any building
which constitutes a fire hazard. The Fire Chief shall also have the power to
require that the owner or occupant of any unsafe building begin work to render
the same safe or remove it within five working days after notice to that effect
has been sent by the Fire Chief to the owner or occupant. The work will
continue until the buildings have been rendered safe or removed.
(1985 Code, § 10-24)
§ 91.30 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate all fires and file a report with the State
Fire Marshal showing how, in the Chief's opinion, each fire originated.
(1985 Code, § 10-25)
§ 91.31 RECORDATION OF FIRE REPORTS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall keep a record which shall show the date,
circumstances and origin of every fire that occurs.
   (B)   The record shall also contain the name of the owner and occupant of
the building in which the fire originated and the kind and value of the
property destroyed or damaged.
(1985 Code, § 10-26)
FIREWORKS; EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.45 EXPLOSIVES; PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep, store, fire or explode at
any time within the city, any dynamite or other explosive substances or
compounds, except with special permission of the City Council or Fire Chief.
(1985 Code, § 10-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.46 PROHIBITION ON USE OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, shoot or discharge any
fireworks of any description within the city, except on Independence Day (July
4), Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Years Eve, New Year’s Day and as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 10-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.47 TOY CAPS AND THE LIKE; EXCEPTED.
   (A)   The term  FIREWORKS shall not include toy paper pistol caps which
contain less than 25/100 grains of explosive compounds, toy pistols, toy canes,
toy guns or other devices using paper caps.
   (B)   The sale and use of these items shall be permitted at all times.
(1985 Code, § 10-32)
§ 91.48 OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply:
   (A)   To the manufacture, storage, sale or use of signals necessary for the
safe operation of railroads or other public or private transportation;
   (B)   To illumination devices for photographic use;
   (C)   To the military or naval forces of the state or nation;
   (D)   To peace officers; and
   (E)   To the sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical or
athletic events, nor as applying to the transportation or use of fireworks
solely for agricultural purposes.
(1985 Code, § 10-33)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 23-35-10
§ 91.49 PUBLIC DISPLAYS; AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the shipping, sale,
possession and use of fireworks for public display, and the items of fireworks
which are to be used for public display only, and which are otherwise
prohibited for sale and use within the city shall include, display shells
designed to be fired from mortars and display set pieces of fireworks
classified by the regulations of the interstate Commerce Commission as “Class B
Fireworks” and shall not include the items of commercial fireworks as cherry
bombs, tubular salutes, repeating bombs, aerial bombs and torpedoes.
(1985 Code, § 10-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Permissible fireworks, see S.C. Code § 23-35-10
§ 91.50 PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to hold a public display of fireworks shall first secure
from the City Council, a written permit to hold the display at least ten days
prior to the date of display.
(1985 Code, § 10-35)
Statutory reference:
   Permits, see S.C. Code § 23-35-60
§ 91.51 SALE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to sell, or offer for sale or give away,
any fireworks within the corporate limits of the city.
(1985 Code, § 10-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.52 TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for persons to possess, store or transport within
the city, any fireworks other than the permissible fireworks herein enumerated.
The permissible fireworks consist of ICC Class C, “Common Fireworks” only, in
the regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission, for the transportation
of explosives and other dangerous articles, and shall include the following:
      (1)   Roman candles, the total pyrotechnic composition of which shall not
exceed 20 grams each in weight;
      (2)   Bottle type rockets, the pyrotechnic composition of which shall not
exceed 20 grams each in weight;
      (3)   Cylindrical fountains, the total pyrotechnic composition of which
shall not exceed 75 grams each in weight and the inside diameter of which shall
not exceed three fourths inch;
      (4)   Cone fountains, the total pyrotechnic composition of which shall
not exceed 50 grams each in weight;
      (5)   Wheels, the total pyrotechnic composition of which shall not exceed
60 grams in weight for each driver unit, but there may be any number of drivers
on any one wheel and the inside bore of driver tubes shall not be over one half
inch;
      (6)   Illuminating torches and colored fire in any form, the total
pyrotechnic composition of which shall not exceed 100 grams each in weight;
      (7)   Sparklers, the total pyrotechnic composition of which shall not
exceed 100 grams each in weight;
      (8)   Firecrackers and salutes with casings, the external dimensions of
which do not exceed one and one half inches in length and one fourth inch in
diameter, and other items designed to produce an audible effect, the total
pyrotechnic composition of which do not exceed two grams each in weight; and
      (9)   Items composed of a combination of two or more articles or devices
of the above enumerated approved items.
   (B)   No component of any device listed in this section, which is designated
to produce an audible effect, shall contain pyrotechnic composition in excess
of two grains in weight excluding propelling or expelling charges.
(1985 Code, § 10-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 23-35-30
§ 91.53 IDENTIFICATION AND MARKING OF FIREWORKS.
   No permissible articles of common fireworks enumerated in §
91.52 shall be possessed, stored or transported in the city, unless they shall
be properly named to conform to the nomenclature of §
91.52 and unless they are certified as “common fireworks” on all shipping cases
and by imprinting on the article to be of sufficient size and so positioned as
to be readily recognized by law enforcement authorities and the general public.
(1985 Code, § 10-38)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 23-35-20
§ 91.54 STORAGE NEAR FLAMMABLE MATERIAL.
   Fireworks shall not be stored in a place of business where paint, oils,
varnishes, turpentine or gasoline or other flammable substances are kept in
unbroken containers, unless in a separate and distinct section or department of
the store.
(1985 Code, § 10-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 23-35-110
§ 91.55 UNLAWFUL TRESPASS BY PROJECTILE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause any projectile to land upon or
go over the property of another without the permission of that property owner.
PROJECTILE shall include, but is not limited to, any fireworks, arrow, bullet
or rocket. A person shall be guilty of this offense even if there is no intent
to cause a projectile to land upon or go over the property of another. The
general penalty clause of the Code of Goose Creek, South Carolina, shall be
applicable to this section.
(Ord. 08-002, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Construction and maintenance by railroad companies; street crossings
and drains
   
92.02   Obstructions; generally
   
92.03   Leaving crates and the like on streets and sidewalks
   
92.04   Display of merchandise
   
92.05   Encroaching fences
   
92.06   Excavation permit required
   
92.07   Danger signals at excavations or obstructions
   
92.08   Draining water, slops and other liquid onto streets or sidewalks
   
92.09   Breaking and/or destroying curbing prohibited; permit required
   
92.10   Posting of house or building numbers mandatory
Use By Private Utilities
   
92.25   Definitions
   
92.26   Filing gross receipts report; payment of street rental fee;
delinquency; exemptions
   
92.27   Examination of records; audit
   
92.28   Use constitutes privilege
   
92.29   Privilege revocable
   
92.30   Right to purchase utility; purchase procedure
   
92.31   Privilege not exclusive
   
92.32   Compliance with law
   
92.33   Reservation of right to modify regulations
   
92.34   Interference with private property
   
92.35   Restoration of surface; relocation of equipment; underground district
   
92.36   Safety inspections; remedying unsafe conditions
   
92.37   Indemnification agreement
   
92.38   Permitting use of equipment by others; punishment for unauthorized use
of streets and the like
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE BY RAILROAD COMPANIES; STREET CROSSINGS
AND DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every officer, agent or representative of
every railroad company entering the city to construct and keep in good repair,
under the direction of the Director of Public Works and subject to the
Director's approval, the roadbed of all public streets and sidewalks across or
along the roadbed of each the railroad company, and for a reasonable distance
on each side thereof.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every officer, agent or representative of
every railroad company with tracks entering the city to construct and maintain
all necessary drains along, across or under its roadbed or along any public
street or sidewalk, under the direction of the Director of Public Works and
subject to the Director's approval.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every officer, agent or representative of
every railroad company to do and perform, at the expense of every railroad
company, all the work required in divisions (A) and (B) above, under the
direction and subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works within
five days from notice by such to the officer, agent or representative thereof,
orally or in writing, so to do.
(1985 Code, § 16-1)
§ 92.02 OBSTRUCTIONS; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any obstruction on or in any
way to obstruct any street, alley, bridge, ditch or public right-of-way;
provided, that this section shall not apply to any employee of the city, county
or state while the employee is immediately and actively engaged in the
maintenance, improvement or construction of any street, sidewalk or public way
in the city; nor to utility companies or others performing work thereon with
permission from the city.
(1985 Code, § 16-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 LEAVING CRATES AND THE LIKE ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place and leave upon any of the
streets or sidewalks of the city, any box, barrel, package, crate, bale or
other obstruction.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons leaving articles in containers
on the right-of-way, except overnight, for collection by the city.
(1985 Code, § 16-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any merchandise or other
chattels of display upon the streets or sidewalks within the city.
(1985 Code, § 16-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 ENCROACHING FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any fence that encroaches upon
any street or public right-of-way of the city, or to build any fence along the
line of a street or right-of-way before having the line of the street or right-
of-way identified by the appropriate official of the city.
(1985 Code, § 16-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up, cut or make any excavation in
any paved or clayed street or sidewalk of the city for any purpose without a
permit.
(1985 Code, § 16-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 DANGER SIGNALS AT EXCAVATIONS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any trench, ditch or
excavation or obstruction in or on any street, sidewalk or public place of the
city to remain open between sunset and sunrise, unless the trench, ditch or
excavation has a sufficient number of lights properly displayed around it as
danger signals to prevent accidents to persons or property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or extinguish any light
which may be placed as a signal at night to warn persons of danger from
ditches, trenches, building materials, scaffolds, excavations, impediments or
obstacles of any description whatsoever in the city.
(1985 Code, § 16-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 DRAINING WATER, SLOPS AND OTHER LIQUID ONTO STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry water or any slops or liquid of
any kind, from any store or residence or other building by means of a drain,
pipe or otherwise, so that the same shall fall or flow upon any part of any
street or sidewalk of the city; provided, that sprinkling of a street to lay
dust is not hereby forbidden.
(1985 Code, § 16-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 BREAKING AND/OR DESTROYING CURBING PROHIBITED; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or destroy the curbing of any
city street or to otherwise deface the same, or to construct any entrance into
property on any of the paved streets of the city unless the person shall have
first obtained a permit.
(1985 Code, § 16-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 POSTING OF HOUSE OR BUILDING NUMBERS MANDATORY.
   (A)   It shall be mandatory that the owner, occupant or agent post the
assigned house or building number of each and every structure within the city,
within 30 days of adoption of this section.
   (B)   House or building number will be a minimum of three inches in height,
of a coloration contrasting to the background surface and posted on or near the
front entrance to each structure in a location clearly visible from the street.
   (C)   The cost of placement and maintenance of numbers shall be borne by the
property owner.
(1985 Code, § 16-11) (Ord. 88-06, passed 7-12-1988)
USE BY PRIVATE UTILITIES
§ 92.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. As defined in §
10.03, except, however, the state, city and their departments and agencies.
   UTILITY. Any person providing telegraph, telephone, electric, gas, cable
television, sewer or water services within the city or to its inhabitants, with
fixtures in the public streets, public properties or public rights-of-way. This
definition is to be nonexclusive of other activities.
(1985 Code, § 16-20)
§ 92.26 FILING GROSS RECEIPTS REPORT; PAYMENT OF STREET RENTAL FEE;
DELINQUENCY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any utility, except those owned or operated by the city or other
governmental agency, using or maintaining any telegraph, telephone, electric,
gas, cable television, sewer or water poles, wires, cables, conduits, pipes,
manholes or other fixtures in or on any of the public streets, public property
or public rights-of-way, which are subject to the control of the city, shall on
or before January 31 of each year, file with the City Clerk a sworn report of
the gross receipts from business conducted by the person within the city for
the preceding 12-month period ending December 31 of the prior year.
   (B)   As a condition to further occupancy and use of the public streets,
public property or public rights-of-way, every utility occupying or using the
public properties shall pay to the city for the privilege an annual rental
charge equal to 3% of the gross receipts received by the person from its
business conducted within the city for the 12-month period ending December 31
of the prior year. The annual rental charge shall be paid to the city on or
before March 15 of each year.
   (C)   For non-payment of all or any part of the fees, the City Clerk shall
collect a late penalty in the following manner: 5% of the unpaid fee for each
month or portion thereof after the due date until paid.
   (D)   Payment of the fee and acceptance by the city shall constitute a
temporary license subject to the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   This chapter shall not apply to the state or its departments and
agencies, or departments and agencies of county government or of the city which
operate exclusively for public benefit and without profit.
(1985 Code, § 16-21)
§ 92.27 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS; AUDIT.
   The City Clerk may direct that the books and financial records of the
utility be examined by a designated representative and shall be empowered to
require an audited report of gross receipts prepared by a certified public
accountant from the utility.
(1985 Code, § 16-22)
§ 92.28 USE CONSTITUTES PRIVILEGE.
   (A)   The annual rental charge for the privilege of using the public
streets, public property and public rights-of-way of the city provided herein
is not charged as a tax, but is made for the special privilege enjoyed by the
utility using the public streets, public property or public rights-of-way of
the city in the conduct of its business.
   (B)   The charges are in addition to all ad valorem and business license
taxes and all taxes of whatsoever nature otherwise levied or charged against
the utility; provided, however, that utilities otherwise subject to the terms
and conditions of this chapter as a condition of their use of the public
streets, public property or public rights-of-way shall be exempted therefrom
upon the adoption of an ordinance of the city of a written agreement granting a
franchise-license to the utilities of limited duration.
(1985 Code, § 16-23)
§ 92.29 PRIVILEGE REVOCABLE.
   This chapter does not grant a permanent and irrevocable right to any utility
to use the public streets, public property and public rights-of-way of the
city. The city expressly reserves the right to cancel the privileges granted
hereunder and refund the unearned rental charges paid to the city at any time
and upon 90 days written notice to users of the public streets, public property
and public rights-of-way.
(1985 Code, § 16-24)
§ 92.30 RIGHT TO PURCHASE UTILITY; PURCHASE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon the cancellation by the city of the privileges granted hereunder,
any utility using the public streets, public property or public rights-of-way
shall be deemed to have consented to grant to the city, at its election, the
right to purchase and take over the utility system and its properties, within
the city upon the payment of a fair market value, less depreciation.
   (B)   In the event of disagreement as to the values, each party shall
appoint a qualified person with the two persons so appointed selecting a third.
   (C)   These three persons so selected shall have the powers given to a Board
of Arbitration by the laws of the state and shall agree on the value of the
utility within the city.
   (D)   Any party dissatisfied with the award may appeal as provided by the
laws of the state.
   (E)   The utility shall not receive any value for its temporary privilege to
use the public streets, public properties or public rights-of-way.
   (F)   Upon the exercise of this option by the city, the utility shall, upon
receipt of written notice, transfer to the city possession and title to all
facilities and properties of its business within the city, free and clear of
all liens and encumbrances not agreed to be assumed by the city in lieu of some
portion of the valuation.
(1985 Code, § 16-25)
§ 92.31 PRIVILEGE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The use and occupancy by a utility of the public streets, public property or
public rights-of-way hereunder shall not be exclusive, and the city reserves
the right to allow other utilities similar uses and occupancy.
(1985 Code, § 16-26)
§ 92.32 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   (A)   Nothing contained herein is intended to relieve or excuse any person
from any requirement of law or ordinance of the city, except as specifically
provided herein.
   (B)   Utilities shall at all times be subject to the lawful exercise of the
police powers of the city.
(1985 Code, § 16-27)
§ 92.33 RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO MODIFY REGULATIONS.
   The city specifically reserves the right to enact or modify restrictions or
regulations affecting the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, pipes,
cables, underground conduits, manholes and other appurtenances in, over and
under the streets and public properties of the city, as the city may deem
proper from time to time, including the relocation of same, all in accordance
with applicable laws and regulations.
(1985 Code, § 16-28)
§ 92.34 INTERFERENCE WITH PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   All equipment, fixtures and properties located or maintained to utilities
pursuant to the terms of this chapter in the public streets or public
properties or public rights-of-way of the city, shall be so located as to
minimize interference with other structures and to minimize interference with
the rights of private properties adjoining any of the public streets or public
properties or public rights-of-way.
(1985 Code, § 16-29)
§ 92.35 RESTORATION OF SURFACE; RELOCATION OF EQUIPMENT; UNDERGROUND DISTRICT.
   (A)   Restoration. In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk,
driveway, ornamental vegetation or other surfaces by the utility pursuant to
its use of the public streets, public properties and public rights-of-way, the
utility shall, at its own cost and expense, and in a manner approved by the
City Engineer, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface of
any street or alley disturbed in as good condition as before the work was
commenced, in a safe and sound condition, and shall maintain the restoration in
an improved condition for a period of five years.
   (B)   Relocation and removal. Utilities using the public streets, public
property or public rights-of-way pursuant to this chapter shall, at their own
expense and at the direction of the city, relocate and remove their appliances,
fixtures or equipment at any time public necessity requires the relocation or
removal because of the appliances, fixtures or equipment unreasonably
interfering with or restricting the effective or safe use of the public street,
public property or public right-of-way.
   (C)   Removal or existing facilities. Any poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes, pipes or other fixtures or equipment erected or located by
persons in, along, across, above, over and under the public streets, public
properties or public rights-of-way of the city, prior to the effective date of
the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, must have been removed within
three months after the effective date of the ordinance unless the utility shall
have obtained permission for use of the public streets, public properties or
public rights-of-way prior thereto in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.
   (D)   Underground district. To promote and contribute to the safety of the
public, appearance, and to assure orderly development, all facilities for the
supply and distribution of electric energy, television cable, gas, telephone,
data, or similar utility services, for all construction, infrastructure
deployment and land development, shall, except as otherwise provided under
applicable laws and regulations, be placed underground. The Director of Public
works, or designee, in consultation with the Zoning Administrator, reserve the
right to consider site specific exceptions based on field conditions.
(1985 Code, § 16-30) (Ord. 2021-019, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 92.36 SAFETY INSPECTIONS; REMEDYING UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The City Fire Chief, Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector, Police
Chief or the other appropriate official as may be designated by the city, shall
have the power and it shall be the official's duty to examine and inspect all
appliances, fixtures and equipment located within or on the public streets,
public properties and public rights-of-way pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the appliance, fixture or equipment is found to be unsafe or
unfit for the purpose intended, the person using, possessing or maintaining
same shall be notified and shall be required to place same in a safe condition.
(1985 Code, § 16-31)
§ 92.37 INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT.
   All utilities shall, for their use of the public streets, public properties
and public rights-of-way of the city under the terms of this chapter, agree to
save the city harmless from all loss sustained by the city on account of any
suit, judgement, execution, claim or demand whatsoever, resulting from
negligence on the part of the utilities in their use of the public streets,
public properties and public rights-of-way of the city, in accordance with the
terms of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 16-32)
§ 92.38 PERMITTING USE OF EQUIPMENT BY OTHERS; PUNISHMENT FOR UNAUTHORIZED USE
OF STREETS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person or utility which has been or may be granted permission to
erect or maintain in any public street, public property or public right-of-way,
any poles or fixtures, conduits or cables, pipes, wires or other equipment for
the distribution of its services, either above or below the ground, shall
permit the equipment or fixtures to be used for any purpose by any other
utility or person, without the express written consent of the city.
   (B)   Any equipment or fixture which is supported, fastened to or carried by
any pole or poles, fixtures, conduits or cable, pipes, wires or other equipment
in the city at the present time belonging to a person or utility which is not
licensed by the city to use the public streets, public properties or public
rights-of-way shall have been removed, and the violation of this provision
shall have been discontinued within 90 days of the date of ratification of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(1985 Code, § 16-35)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Posting of house of building numbers mandatory. Failure to post the
assigned number within the prescribed time shall be judged a violation, and the
owner, upon conviction in the Municipal Court, may be fined no more than $500
plus assessments required by the State of South Carolina and/or sentenced to 30
days imprisonment.
(1985 Code, § 16-11) (Ord. 88-06, passed 7-12-1988)
   (C)   Punishment for non-payment of rental. Every utility which shall
operate any business without payment of the rental charges provided herein,
shall be subject to a fine of $500 plus assessments required by the State of
South Carolina for each day that the utility shall conduct business using and
occupying the public streets, public properties or public rights-of-way without
payment of the rental charge, provided that utilities who are natural persons
may alternatively be sentenced to imprisonment for a period of 30 days for each
day of the violation. Notwithstanding the imposition of fines or punishment
herein established for violation of this chapter, all rental charges which
become due and owing to the city under the terms of this chapter may be
recovered by the city in a court of competent jurisdiction by suit filed
therein.
(1985 Code, § 16-33)
   (D)   Punishment for failure to file report. Every utility and its local
manager or agent failing or refusing to make the report required by §
92.26, or failing or refusing to allow the examination or submit the report
provided for in section §
92.27, shall, upon conviction in the Municipal Court, be fined no more than
$500 plus assessments required by the State of South Carolina, and every
utility who is a natural person violating the provisions may alternatively be
sentenced to 30 days imprisonment. Every day's failure or refusal as mentioned
in this section shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 16-34)
   (E)   Permitting use of equipment by others; punishment for unauthorized use
of streets and the like. Every utility and its local manager or agent, failing
or refusing to comply with division (B) above by removal of the non-licensed
fixtures or equipment in the public streets, public property or public rights-
of-way, shall upon conviction in the Municipal Court, be fined no more than
$500 plus assessments required by the State of South Carolina and every utility
who is a natural person violating the provision may alternatively be sentenced
to 30 days imprisonment. Every day's failure or refusal as mentioned in this
section shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 16-35)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Administration
   
93.001   Title
   
93.002   Scope
   
93.003   Purposes
   
93.004   Application of code
   
93.005   Authority
   
93.006   Enforcement
   
93.007   Right-to-enter
   
93.008   Appeals
   
93.009   Validity and separability
   
93.010   Compliance with other ordinances
   
93.011   Persons responsible
Rules of Construction and Definitions
   
93.025   Rules of construction
   
93.026   Definitions
The Adoption of Rules and Regulations of the South Carolina
Department of Health and Environmental Control
   
93.055   Adoptions
   
93.056   Food handling establishments
   
93.057   Burning garbage and the like
   
93.058   Abandoned wells
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
   
93.075   Responsibility
   
93.076   Prohibited waste
   
93.077   Solid waste collection
   
93.078   Placement requirements; household solid waste
   
93.079   Bundling of solid waste
   
93.080   Solid waste containerization and removal
   
93.081   Use of non-standard containers
   
93.082   Service for owners requiring additional containerization for household
refuse
   
93.083   Owners, agents and tenants responsibility
   
93.084   Refusal of service
   
93.085   Frequency of solid waste collection
   
93.086   Assessment rates for city residents
Sewage Disposal
   
93.100   Occupancy of premises without proper system
   
93.101   Building contracts to provide for sewage disposal
   
93.102   Use of septic tanks
   
93.103   Connection to sewer
Nuisances
   
93.145   Public nuisances prohibited
   
93.146   Enumeration of public nuisances affecting health
   
93.147   Public nuisances affecting public safety
Abatement
   
93.160   Notice to abate involving great a1vd immediate danger
   
93.161   Abatement by the city involving violations without great or immediate
danger
   
93.162   Procedure to appeal abatement decision
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
93.175   Throwing refuse and the like on city property
   
93.176   Tattooing
   
93.177   Hours of operation for commercial refuse or waste collector restricted
Junk; Junkyards
   
93.190   Definitions
   
93.191   Abandonment of refrigerators; removal of door or lock required
   
93.192   Junk in residential districts
   
93.193   Junk in commercial districts
   
93.194   Impound lots
   
93.195   Enforcement
 
   
93.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 137 
ADMINISTRATION
§ 93.001 TITLE.
   (A)   Provisions in the following sections shall be known as the "Health and
Sanitation Code" of the City of Goose Creek, hereinafter referred to as "this
code". This code shall include sections governing:
      (1)   Administration authority, enforcement, right-to-enter and
penalties; and
      (2)   Definitions.
   (B)   Adoption of rules and regulations of the South Carolina Department of
Health and Environmental Control:
      (1)   Solid waste collection and disposal;
      (2)   Sewage disposal; and
      (3)   Nuisances.
   (C)   The City of Goose Creek shall hereinafter be referred to as "the
city".
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.002 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for and the disposal or collection of solid waste, the disposal of
sewage and the prohibition of nuisances within the corporate limits of the
city, including all zoning classifications and districts as follows.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.003 PURPOSES.
   (A)   Health and sanitation. The adoption and purposes of the city's health
and sanitation standards are:
      (1)   To establish a minimum standard of upkeep and care of property in
order to protect, promote and improve the public health, safety, convenience,
order, appearance, and general welfare of the city through the enforcement of
health and sanitation standards;
      (2)   To prevent negligence which can lead to blight, decay, depreciation
of property value(s) and a loss of community pride and confidence;
      (3)   To keep the city clean, healthy, beautiful and to prevent future
sanitation and health problems from occurring;
      (4)   To fix the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants of
properties and premises inside the city; and
      (5)   To provide for the administration, enforcement and penalties of
this code.
   (B)   Adoption of rules and regulations of the South Carolina Department of
Health and Environmental Control Board. The adoption and purpose of rules and
regulations of the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental
Control is to establish a minimum criteria governing, but not limited to the
sanitary conditions for eating and drinking establishments, food processing
plants, including dairy products, that will promote the safe and sanitary
handling of the products being produced, processed, packaged or delivered; and
to protect the health and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (C)   Solid waste. The adoption and purposes of the solid waste article are
to:
      (1)   To establish a minimum standard for the collection and disposal of
the city's solid waste in order to promote, protect and improve the public
health through the enforcement of good and sound collection and disposal
methods, and to prevent public nuisances and unhealthy conditions;
      (2)   To prevent negligence which can lead to decay, depreciation of
property values and loss of community pride and confidence;
      (3)   To keep the city clean, healthy, beautiful and to prevent future
sanitation and health problems from occurring; and
      (4)   To affix the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants of
the homes, businesses and vacant properties.
   (D)   Sewage disposal. The adoption and purposes of the sewage disposal
article are to establish a minimum standard for the collection and disposal of
the sewage within the city, to promote and enhance the sanitary conditions of
the city and to prevent the presence and spread of infectious diseases caused
by the improper disposal of sewage.
   (E)   Nuisances. The adoption and purpose of §
93.145 through §
93.147 is to establish a minimum standard to reduce or eliminate public
nuisances so as to:
      (1)   Promote pride within the community;
      (2)   To enhance the city's goal as a livable community;
      (3)   To fix the responsibilities of property owners, agents and tenants;
and
      (4)   To retain or enhance property.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.004 APPLICATION OF CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of rules and regulations of the South Carolina Department of
Health and Environmental Control. Any establishment that engages in the
preparation, processing, packaging, manufacturing, delivery or serving of any
food and/or drink shall perform the function in accordance with the provisions
of this code and all laws of the county, state and federal governments
governing the same.
   (B)   Solid waste. Any collection or disposal of solid waste which may be
caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code, shall be done in
accordance with the procedures and provisions of the federal government, the
state, Berkeley County and any other applicable codes as used by the city.
   (C)   Sewage disposal. Any collection, treatment or disposal of sewage which
may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall be
done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the city, county,
state and federal governments and any other applicable codes as used by the
city.
   (D)   Nuisances. As a result of a routine complaint from any citizen or an
inspection by the city, a nuisance is found to exist, it shall be considered a
violation of this code and shall be corrected upon notification pursuant to the
provisions of this code and any other laws of the city, county, state or
Federal governments.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.005 AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director or his or her duly
authorized representative(s) to determine whether any condition exists or
activity is being practiced which violates this code. The cause for inspections
shall be formed either by citizen complaints or staff observations.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.006 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city, or its representative, shall enforce this code and shall
take necessary actions to ensure that all violations are corrected to comply
with this code.
   (B)   Should it become necessary, the city will remove the violation from
the property and the cost for the removal shall become the responsibility of
the property owner.
   (C)   If the cost for removal shall go unpaid, the same shall become a lien
upon the property and shall be collected in the manner prescribed for the
collection of delinquent taxes. The property owner shall also be liable for
prosecution pursuant to this code.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.007 RIGHT-TO-ENTER.
   The city, or its representative, shall have the right-to-enter onto any
premise at any reasonable time for the purpose of making an inspection or
investigation as required by this code, subject to the constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused, the
city is authorized to apply to the courts for a search warrant based on
probable cause.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.008 APPEALS.
   There shall be no appeals to this code except those provided by the courts.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.009 VALIDITY AND SEPARABILITY.
   If any section or provision of this code shall be declared invalid by a
court of law, the declaration shall not affect any other section or provision
of this code which shall continue in full force and effect and to this end, the
sections and provisions of this code are hereby declared severable.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.010 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   No license or permit issued by any municipal, county, state or Federal
agency or any certification of compliance, shall constitute a defense against
any violation of any other local ordinance of law that is applicable to any
structure or premises, lot, property or vehicle; nor shall any provision herein
relieve any owner, operator or occupant from complying with any other
provision, nor any official of the city from enforcing any other provision.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.011 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Any person with direct or indirect control over the premises is responsible
for compliance with this code whether that person is an owner, tenant,
occupant, agent, independent contractor or manager.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS
§ 93.025 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code, the provision in §
10.04 shall be observed. In addition, definitions found in this section shall
be applicable to this section of the code only.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.026 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. To give up control of, or to cease from intending or attempting
to protect, maintain or use any vehicle, property, premise or junk within the
city.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Any derelict or wrecked property which has been left
abandoned or unprotected from the elements and shall include inoperative or
partially dismantled, trailers, boats, machinery, appliances, furniture,
construction materials and other similar articles used in or in conjunction
with the home, property or vehicle.
   ANIMAL WASTE (MANURE). Animal excreta, including cleanings from barns,
stables, corrals, all pens or conveyances used for stabling, transporting or
penning of animals, fowl or reptiles.
   ASHES. Any residue, hot or cold, that occurs and remains due to burning or
other similar mamler of combustion.
   BLIGHT. Any one or more of the following conditions or activities:
      (1)   Abandoned building or structure;
      (2)   Attractive nuisance, as in a property which is in an unsecured
state so as to potentially constitute an attraction to children, vagrants,
criminals or other unauthorized persons or so as to enable persons to resort
thereto for the purpose of committing a unlawful act;
      (3)   A building or structure which is in a state of disrepair to the
extent so as to pose a threat to public health, safety or welfare; and
      (4)   Property inadequately maintained to the extent so as to pose a
threat to public health, safety or welfare.
   BRUSH. All trees and plant material which is growing or has grown on the
premise.
   CITY. The City of Goose Creek, South Carolina.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The appointed representative(s) of the city to
administer this code.
   CONTAINER. The 95-gallon or 65-gallon roll-cart refuse container provided by
the City of Goose Creek.
   CONTRACTOR. Any individual(s) who provides a service for an owner and
receives payment of any kind for any service rendered.
   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected officials of the city.
   COUNTY. Berkeley County, South Carolina.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building, vehicle, public or private
property or part thereof, characterized by excessive holes, breaks, rotting,
crumbling, peeling, rusting, neglect, lack of maintenance or other evidence of
physical decay or excessive use.
   DRY TRASH. All weeds, limbs, brush, roots, leaves, grass clippings, straw,
logs, stumps and the like.
   END OF WORK WEEK. Friday at 5:00 p.m.
   EXPOSED TO PUBLIC VIEW. Any premises or any part thereof, or any building or
vehicle or any part thereof, which may be viewed by the public from a natural
position, including any lawful elevated location on either public or private
property, using unassisted vision.
   EXTERIOR OF THE PREMISES. Open space on the premises outside of any building
or vehicle thereon.
   EXTERMINATION. The control of insects, rodents or other pests by eliminating
their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible materials that may
serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, trapping or by any
other recognized and legal pest elimination methods.
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.  The government of the United States of America.
   GARBAGE. Any organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable. Also, small
cans, bottles, rags,
boxes, small dead animals and any other similar waste.
   HIGHWAY. A way or place of whatever nature, publicly or privately maintained
and opened to the use of the public or private sector for vehicular travel.
Highway includes streets, alleys, rights-of-way or paths.
   IMPOUND LOT. An area incident to the operation of a business within the
commercial district of the city, used for the storage of vehicles from which no
major parts have been removed, which are capable of being made fully
operational and used for storage of not more than nine vehicles as defined
herein, at any time.
   INFESTATION. The abnormal presence of insects, rodents, vermin or other
pests on the premise which constitutes a health hazard.
   INOPERATIVE. Any vehicle or property that is not functioning in a manner
consistent with its intended use.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets as it was intended and designed to do for reason including, but not
limited to, being unlicensed, unregistered, wrecked, in a state of disrepair or
incapable of being moved under its own power
   JUNK. Any item that has no value other than nominal salvage value.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying
or selling junk or an automobile graveyard and shall include garbage dumps,
sanitary landfills and scrap processors.
   LITTER. Any unpleasant, unhealthy or unsanitary accumulation or placement of
refuse, rubbish, garbage, the growth of grass, bushes, weeds, vines, leaves and
the like on private and/or public property.
   NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property, whereby:
      (1)   The health or life of any individual may be endangered, injured
impaired and/or cause any disease;
      (2)   Substantially injures or endangers the health safety of an
individual;
      (3)   Renders the public insecure in life and or use of property;
      (4)   Unlawfully and or substantially interferes with, obstructs or
renders dangerous for passage on or across any street, highway, alley,
navigable waterway or other public way.
   OPERATOR. Any person(s) who has charge, care or control of a structure,
dwelling, premises or vehicle or any part thereof, whether with or without the
knowledge and consent of the owner, including, if applicable, a lessee.
   OWNER. Any person(s), agent, operator, firm, mortgage holder, part owner,
tenant, corporation or any entity having a legal or equitable interest in the
property or recorded in the official records of the state, county or
municipality. Owner shall include any person who has control of the property or
who otherwise holds themselves out as having control of the property. Owner
shall include the personal representative of an estate or the guardian or
conservator of a minor or incompetent person who has an ownership interest in
the property.
   PARTIALLY DISMANTLED/WRECKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle from which major parts
have been removed so as to render the motor vehicle inoperative, or a wrecked
vehicle where the damage to the vehicle has rendered the vehicle inoperative.
   PARTIES OF INTEREST. Any person or entity who has interest of record in a
premise or any who are in actual possession thereof.
   PERSONS. The word PERSON shall extend and be applied to individuals, firms,
partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies political and corporate,
or any combination thereof.
   PREMISES. The exterior of any building, structure or any parcel of land
(whether improved or unimproved) including the area up to the paved edge of the
road, street, curb or alley and including any adjacent sidewalks, easements and
right-of-way.
   PUBLIC PLACES. Any building, park, cemetery, school yard or open space owned
by the public and used for the general welfare of the public.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Lands and improvements owned by the federal government, the
state, the county or the city, and includes but is not limited to vehicles,
buildings, grounds, parks, playgrounds, streets, sidewalks, parkways,
easements, rights-of-way and other similar property.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The individual appointed by the City Administrator to
carry out the function of the City's Public Works Department as described in §
33.080.
   REFUSE (TRASH). Any ashes, litter, leaves, grass, brushes, vines, tree
branches, large pieces of metal (old appliances, vehicles and tin) and wood
with no piece exceeding four inches in diameter and four feet in length and
having a weight less than 50 pounds.
   REFUSE (LITTER and GROWTH). Any unhealthy or unsanitary accumulation of
litter and growth of grass, bushes, weeds, vines, leaves and the like, on both
private and public property.
   REPAIR. The improvement, replacement or restoration of an existing premise
or vehicle to its original state with similar materials or parts to enhance its
current value. The term REPAIR or REPAIRS shall not apply to any alteration,
i.e. moving of walls, additions of rooms, similar change of construction and
the like.
   ROLL-CART/HOUSEHOLD REFUSE. The refuse container provided by the City of
Goose Creek with a 95-gallon capacity.
   ROLL-CART/YARD DEBRIS. The yard debris container available for purchase from
the City of Goose Creek with a 95-gallon capacity.
   RUBBISH. Any non-putrescent (not undergoing rotting or decomposition of
organic material) solid waste, excluding ashes, consisting of both combustible
and waste, such as paper, cardboard, waste metal, tin cans, brush, leaves,
vines, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   SCDHEC. The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   SCRAP PROCESSORS. Any person engaged in the business of buying scrap iron
and metals, including, but not limited to, old vehicles, for the specific
purpose of processing into raw material for re-melting purposes and whose
product is ferrous and nonferrous scrap for shipment to steel mills, foundries,
smelters and refineries, and having facilities and machinery designed for the
processing.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, litter, dry trash, white goods, ashes and
refuse.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   TRANSLUCENT. A bag or container's ability to transmit or diffuse light so
that objects within cannot be seen clearly
   VEHICLES. Any device by which a person or property may be propelled, moved
or towed upon a highway, except a vehicle moved by human power or those used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WEEDS. All uncultivated vegetative growth.
   WHITE GOODS. Any large appliance such as but not limited to, stoves,
refrigerators, air conditioners and the like.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
THE ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE SOUTH CAROLINA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
§ 93.055 ADOPTIONS.
   There are hereby adopted and made part of this chapter as fully as though
set out length herein, all the provisions and requirements of the South
Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control and found in the Code
of Laws of South Carolina as amended in reference to:
   (A)   Eating and drinking establishments;
   (B)   Food processing plants; and
   (C)   Sanitary control of the manufacture, distribution and sale of frozen
dairy foods and frozen deserts.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.056 FOOD HANDLING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All food handling establishments may be inspected at such times as
designated by the city's Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   All food handling establishments shall adhere to the state and county
health rules and regulations
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.057 BURNING GARBAGE AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, leaves or rubbish of
any kind or amount, either inside or outside of garbage containers, without the
written consent of the Fire Chief or Duty Officer of the City Fire Department
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999 
§ 93.058 ABANDONED WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent or tenant to permit or allow any
abandoned well to remain open and unprotected, on any place or premises owned
or occupied by the owner or tenant.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 93.075 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Owner. The owner, agent or tenant of a premise shall be responsible
for adhering to and obeying this code in order to enhance the collection and
disposal of solid waste from the highways, streets and properties within the
corporate limits of the city and to achieve the purposes of this code.
   (B)   City. The city shall provide solid waste and disposal services to all
single-family residential homes within the city, as well as buildings owned and
occupied by the city as described in this code. No commercial solid waste
collection or disposal services shall be provided by the city. It shall be the
responsibility of all commercial agencies within the city to contract with
private companies for solid waste collection and disposal services.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.076 PROHIBITED WASTE.
   (A)   General; including oil. Ashes, shingles, rocks, bricks, concrete
slabs, sidewalks, driveways, large automobile parts and oil shall not be
deposited for solid waste collection. These items shall be disposed of at the
owner's expense.
   (B)   Contractor generated. Refuse, brick, scraps of lumber, mortar,
plaster, roofing, gutters, dry trash, litter, trees, stumps and all like
materials generated by a contractor shall be removed by the contractor and
disposed of according to the solid waste laws of the state and county by the
end of each work week.
   (C)   Hazardous waste. Waste that is classified and identified from time to
time by the SCDHEC as hazardous waste.
   (D)   Liquids. All liquids must be drained from the refuse or garbage prior
to be collected by the city.
   (E)   Mixed. No household garbage is to be mixed with dry trash.
   (F)   Leaves, grass, straw and the like. Loose leaves, grass, and straw
shall not be collected except for those contained according to this code (see §
93.080).
   (G)   Animals.  Dead animals or animal waste shall not be placed in
containers for collection.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999 
§ 93.077 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   The solid waste collected by the city shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
   (A)   White goods, furniture and pieces of metal and tin with dimensions
exceeding nine inches by 48 inches must be placed by the street or highway
right-of-way on the designated day. The owner shall remove the door(s) from all
white goods if they are of the size to cause entrapment of any person or
animal. Note: For clarity, metal items which do not exceed the nine inches by
48 inches will be considered as household garbage and litter. These will be
collected on the designated days.
   (B)   All dry trash meeting the requirements of this code.
   (C)   Leaves, grass and straw must be placed in strong paper bags or yard
debris roll-carts on the designated collection days.
   (D)   Logs, limbs, brush, branches and other similar materials not exceeding
four feet in length, 50 pounds in weight and not greater than four inches in
diameter.
   (E)    All normal household solid waste including, but not limited to, food,
bags, paper, household plastics and the like.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.078 PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS; HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE.
   Normal household solid waste must be placed in the proper containers and not
mixed with other solid waste as described in this chapter.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.079 BUNDLING OF SOLID WASTE.
   All loose materials (boxes, newspapers, magazines and the like) which are
normally placed into containers but exceed the container's capacity must be
bundled and tied securely to enhance the collection process.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.080 SOLID WASTE CONTAINERIZATION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All owners that receive solid waste collection services from the city
will be provided with one 95-gallon roll-cart refuse container to accommodate
their normal volume of solid waste.
   (B)   Bags used for dry trash (leaves, straw, grass and the like) must be
made of strong paper. No dry trash will be collected in plastic bags. Owners
may also elect to purchase from the City of Goose Creek and use a 95-gallon
yard debris roll-cart.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.081 USE OF NON-STANDARD CONTAINERS.
   Only roll-cart containers provided by or purchased from the City of Goose
Creek will be collected. No other type of container is authorized for household
refuse or yard debris.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.082 SERVICE FOR OWNERS REQUIRING ADDITIONAL CONTAINERIZATION FOR HOUSEHOLD
REFUSE.
   Owners may obtain the use of an additional roll-cart refuse container by
making a request to the Department of Public Works and paying an additional,
one time, user fee.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.083 OWNERS, AGENTS AND TENANTS RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner, agent or tenant shall be responsible for:
   (A)   The disposal of all solid waste that is not collected by the city.
These items must be disposed of in a manner which is consistent with the laws,
rules and regulations of the state and county;
   (B)   Placing all solid waste by the street or highway by 7:00 a.m. on the
designated collection days and placed in a manner that allows easy access and
does not create a safety hazard to road traffic or the general public;
   (C)   The removal of all solid waste containers from the curb by 7:00 p.m.
on the designated collection day;
   (D)   Any damages occurring from placing of or the removal of solid waste
that has been placed on top of or near any utility appurtenance, drainage
structure or other property (public or private);
   (E)   The separation of mixed waste;
   (F)   The placement of lids on containers to prevent spillage of waste and
littering the surrounding area;
   (G)   Paying the annual sanitation tax as required by City Council;
   (H)   Placing the roll-cart container away from cars and mailboxes, with the
handle toward the street;
   (I)   Not placing hot ashes, flammable liquids, construction debris, dirt or
rocks in roll-cart container;
   (J)   Not overloading roll-cart container;
   (K)   The owner, agent or tenant shall be responsible for reporting stolen
or missing roll-cart refuse containers to the Department of Public Works.
Missing or stolen household refuse roll-cart containers will be replaced at no
cost if the loss is determined to have occurred through no fault of the owner,
agent or tenant; and/or
   (L)   Actively engaging in the reduction of solid waste by promoting and
practicing recycling.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.084 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to refuse solid waste services to any owner,
agent or tenant who consistently violates this code.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.085 FREQUENCY OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   The city shall have complete authority to collect and dispose of the city's
solid waste at the times and intervals as is deemed necessary for the health
and welfare of its citizens as well as to provide efficient service.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.086 ASSESSMENT RATES FOR CITY RESIDENTS.
   (A)   Period; purpose. A sanitation tax to cover the period from January 1
through December 31, both inclusive for the sums and in the manner hereinafter
mentioned, is and shall be levied, collected and paid into the Treasury of the
City of Goose Creek for the use and service thereof, i.e., a tax as determined
by City Council and is assessed on every single-family occupied residential lot
within the corporate limits of the City of Goose Creek, to be paid into the
City Treasury for the credit to the City of Goose Creek, for the corporate
purposes, permanent improvements and for the purpose of paying current expenses
of the municipality.
   (B)   Collection method. By mutual agreement between the City of Goose Creek
and Berkeley County, Berkeley County will bill and collect the taxes enumerated
herein, and pay the same to the Treasury of the City of Goose Creek in the
manner as agreed by both parties.
   (C)   Penalty dates; amounts. The billing dates, the penalty dates and the
amount of the penalty which shall be levied for delinquent taxes shall be the
same as those adopted by Berkeley County Council.
   (D)   Throwing waste from elevated places prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any owner, agent or tenant of property within the city to allow any refuse,
garbage, litter, dirty water, ashes, paper or other unclean or unsanitary
useless waste material to be thrown, poured, let fall or permit to drop from
any window, roof, porch, vehicle or other elevated place(s) except for
materials used during the construction of any structure having a building
permit.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999
SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 93.100 OCCUPANCY OF PREMISES WITHOUT PROPER SYSTEM.
   No owner, agent or tenant of any dwelling shall allow the same to be
occupied unless proper sewage disposal is provided in accordance with this
code. If an owner, tenant or occupant fails to make payment of the bill for use
of the sanitary sewer system connected to the property, then proper sewage
disposal is not available and further occupancy constitutes unlawful use of the
structure. In addition, the city may terminate water service to the property
until proper payment is made for use of the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.101 BUILDING CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   All building contracts for the erection of structures anticipated for human
occupancy must provide for adequate and sanitary sewage disposal. If no public
sewage connection is available to a building, the contract must provide for the
construction of a septic tank in accordance with the standards as prescribed by
the United States Public Health Service and the South Carolina Department of
Health and Environmental Control. Applications for permits from the city to
erect the buildings must state-the proposed method of sewage disposal.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.102 USE OF SEPTIC TANKS.
   Septic tanks approved by the South Carolina Department of Health and
Environmental Control and kept in good sanitary condition will be required
where sewer lines are not provided, but under no condition will septic tanks be
accepted where sewer connections are available.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.103 CONNECTION TO SEWER.
   (A)   When a sewer connection is made available to the property line of a
premise that has a septic tank, the owner of the premise shall remove or fill
the septic tank and connect to the sewer connection within 90 days after the
service is available. If the owner fails to connect to the available sewer
system and make proper payment for connection and use of the system, then the
city may terminate water service to the property in addition to other remedies
available to the city including the general penalty provided by this code.
   (B)   The removal or filling of the septic tank shall be in accordance with
all applicable laws of the city, county or state.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
NUISANCES
§ 93.145 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, contrive, cause, continue,
maintain or permit to exist any public nuisance within the city.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see§
93.999
§ 93.146 ENUMERATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   Public nuisances affecting public health shall include, but not be limited
to the following acts, omissions, conditions or things:
   (A)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold
or offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
   (C)   Accumulation of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal or any material
whatsoever in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other
vermin may inhabit or breed;
   (D)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
breed and multiply,
   (E)   All excessive weeds and other rank growth or vegetation;
   (F)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases, fly
ash or industrial dust within the city or within one mile there from in such
quantities as to endanger the health of persons or to threaten or cause
substantial damage to property;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, creamery, industrial wastes or other substances; and
   (H)   Any use of property, substances or things that injures or endangers
the health or safety of individuals or persons within the city.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.147 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC SAFETY.
   Public nuisances affecting public safety shall include, but not be limited
to the following:
   (A)   All signs and billboards, awnings and other similar structures over or
near streets, sidewalks, public grounds or places frequented by the public, so
situated or constructed as to endanger the public safety;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a
clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk;
   (C)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk or roadway
less than eight feet above the surface of a public sidewalk or less than 14.5
feet above the surface of a public roadway;
   (D)   All wires over streets, alleys, public grounds which are strung less
than 15 feet above the surface of street or ground;
   (E)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and all
excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of the
city or which although made in accordance with the ordinances, are kept or
maintained for an unreasonable length of time after purpose thereof has been
accomplished;
   (F)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk;
   (G)   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from which the doors and other
covers have not been removed (see §
93.077) or which are not equipped with a device for opening from the inside;
and
   (H)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley or sidewalk, or of a public street, alley or sidewalk, which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of
the streets or sidewalks.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
ABATEMENT
§ 93.160 NOTICE TO ABATE INVOLVING GREAT A1VD IMMEDIATE DANGER.
   (A)   If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that a violation of
Chapter 93 exists on private property and that there is great and immediate
danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall serve notice specifying the particulars of the
violation. Service may be on the owner of the property by any means including
email, facsimile, text message or telephone. If the owner cannot be found, then
the owner shall be served by posting the property with the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall direct the owner, occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining the violation of
Chapter 93 to abate or remove the violation within 24 hours.
      (2)   The notice shall state that unless the violation is so abated, the
city will cause it to be abated and will charge the costs to the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the violation and that
said costs will also be filed as a lien against the real property.
   (C)   Any person refusing or neglecting to abate the violation after having
been directed to do so shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.161 ABATEMENT BY THE CITY INVOLVING VIOLATIONS WITHOUT GREAT OR IMMEDIATE
DANGER.
   (A)   If the Code Enforcement Officer or other representative of the city
shall determine that there is any violation of
Chapter 93 of this code that does not involve great and immediate danger, but
which warrants abatement, then the Code Enforcement Officer shall serve notice
specifying the particular violations of
Chapter 93. Service may be on the owner of the property personally or by mail.
Service shall be effective upon deposit of the notice in the United States
Mail, first class mail, postage prepaid. If the owner cannot be found, notice
may be posted on the property. The notice may also be served on the occupant or
other person causing, permitting or maintaining the violation of
Chapter 93.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall direct the owner, occupant, or person causing,
permitting or maintaining the violation of
Chapter 93 to abate or remove the violation of
Chapter 93 within 30 days.
      (2)   The notice shall state that unless the violation is so abated, the
city will cause it to be abated and will charge the costs to the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the violation and that
said costs will also be filed as a lien against the real property.
   (C)   Any person refusing or neglecting to abate a violation of
Chapter 93 after having been directed to do so shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
which shall be in addition to the daily misdemeanor available for the Chapter
93 offense.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.162 PROCEDURE TO APPEAL ABATEMENT DECISION.
   (A)   For a notice of abatement involving a violation for a violation of
Chapter 93 involving great and immediate danger and notice pursuant to §
93.160, the owner or other person with a valid legal interest may appeal the
notice by serving a notice of appeal on the City Administrator within 24 hours
of the posting of the property or service, whichever is first. The City
Administrator shall review the appeal and the materials provided with the
appeal and make a decision. Any appeal of the decision of the City
Administrator shall be made to the Circuit Court within ten days of the
decision of the City Administrator. However, an appeal of a violation to
Circuit Court shall not automatically stay the matter pending appeal and the
city may abate the violation. The burden shall be on the appellant to secure an
order from the Circuit Court restraining the city from undertaking abatement
activities.
   (B)   For a notice of abatement involving a violation of
Chapter 93 not involving great and immediate danger and notice pursuant to §
93.161, the owner or other person with a valid legal interest may appeal the
notice by servicing a notice of appeal on the City Administrator within 20 days
of the posting of the property or service, whichever is first. The City
Administrator shall review the appeal and the materials provided with the
appeal and make a decision. Any appeal of the decision of the City
Administrator shall be to Circuit Court within ten days. However, an appeal of
a violation to Circuit Court shall not automatically stay the matter pending
appeal and the city may abate the violation. The burden shall be on the
appellant to secure an order from the Circuit Court restraining the city from
undertaking abatement activities.
   (C)   There is no right of adjacent landowners or other citizens to appeal a
decision of the Code Enforcement Officer if the officer finds no violation or
refuses to issue a notice to abate.
   (D)   The city shall be under no legal obligation to act to issue a notice
to abate a violation of
Chapter 93. Nor shall the city be required to actually abate the violation
after posting or serving notice. Nor shall the city be required to complete the
abatement within any specific time period. If the city does elect to abate, any
owner, occupant or mortgage holder shall be jointly and severally liable for
the costs of the abatement and such costs may also be filed as a lien against
the property.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 93.175 THROWING REFUSE AND THE LIKE ON CITY PROPERTY.
   Any person throwing, or leaving for more than six hours, any rags, trash,
garbage, paper or any other refuse matter in the streets, parks, public squares
or any other public places in the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.176 TATTOOING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark the body of another person by
tattooing or any other method of placing designs, letters, scrolls, figures,
symbols or any other marks upon or under the skin with ink, colors or pigments.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.177 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR COMMERCIAL REFUSE OR WASTE COLLECTOR
RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any commercial refuse or waste collector to operate
during the hours 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Violations shall be subject to the
general penalty clause of this code, and such shall constitute cause to
initiate revocation of a business license.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
JUNK; JUNKYARDS
§ 93.190 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE BODY. Any motor vehicle from which major parts have been removed
so as to render the motor vehicle inoperable and incapable of passing
inspection as required by the state; or, a wrecked motor vehicle where the
damage to the motor vehicle has rendered the motor vehicle inoperable,
incapable of being made operable or incapable of passing inspection as required
by the state.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment which is maintained or used for
buying or selling automobile bodies, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or dismantled
motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   IMPOUND LOT. An area incident to the operation of a business within a
commercial district of the city, used for the storage of motor vehicles from
which major parts have not been removed, and which are capable of being made
fully operable and used for the storage of not more than nine vehicles at any
time.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste, junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying
or selling junk, or an automobile graveyard, and the term shall include garbage
dumps, sanitary landfills and scrap processors.
   SCRAP PROCESSOR.  Any person engaged in the business of buying scrap iron
and metals, including, but not limited to, old automobiles, for the specific
purpose of processing into raw material for re-melting purposes, and whose
product is ferrous and nonferrous scrap for shipment to steel mills, foundries,
smelters and refineries, and having facilities and machinery designed for the
processing.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.191 ABANDONMENT OF REFRIGERATORS; REMOVAL OF DOOR OR LOCK REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or allow to remain in any place
accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or other container, device or equipment which has an airtight door
or lid, snap lock or other locking device which may not be released from the
inside, without first removing the door from the icebox, refrigerator, device,
equipment or container.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999 
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16 3-1010.
§ 93.192 JUNK IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No person shall accumulate, place or deposit any junk, automobile bodies or
automobile parts in a residential district of the city other than within an
enclosed building (garage, storage building and the like) or an enclosed fence
at least six feet tall which ensures that the materials cannot be seen from
adjacent properties. Any storage of such items determined by the city to be
excessive, unsafe or unhealthy, shall be eliminated.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999.
§ 93.193 JUNK IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   No person shall accumulate, place or deposit any junk, automobile bodies or
automobile parts on any property in a commercial district of the city, except
as provided below:
   (A)   Within an enclosed building (garage, storage building and the like) or
an enclosed fence at least six feet tall, which ensures that the materials
cannot be seen from adjacent properties;
   (B)   At an automobile/motor vehicle body repair business, properly licensed
by the city, which has wrecked vehicles on the premises, actively engaged in
repairing the vehicles, where the vehicles are on the premises no longer than
30 days; wrecked vehicles shall not be maintained on the property for the
purpose of using parts or accessories for any purpose; and/or
   (C)   Within an approved impound lot as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.194 IMPOUND LOTS.
   Impound lots, incident to the operation of a business, may be established
within a commercial district of the city for the storage of motor vehicles
under the following conditions and requirements:
   (A)   The area used for an impound lot must be free of debris and regularly
maintained;
   (B)   The area used for an impound lot must be completely enclosed by a
fence at least six feet tall; if the impound lot adjoins a residential
district, that section of fence adjoining the residential district shall be
screened with materials designated by the city to ensure that the interior of
the impound lot cannot be seen from the residential district;
   (C)   An impound lot may be used for the temporary storage of motor vehicles
from which major parts have not been removed and which are capable of being
made fully operable and passing inspection as required by the state;
   (D)   An impound lot may be used for the storage of not more than nine
automobile bodies, as defined herein, at any one time;
   (E)   Motor vehicle parts shall not be stored within an impound lot;
   (F)   Motor vehicle parts shall not be taken or sold from motor vehicles
stored within an impound lot; and
   (G)   Motor vehicles stored in an impound lot shall be neatly parked in
rows.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.195 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city, or its representative, shall enforce this subchapter and shall
take necessary actions to ensure that junk, automobile bodies or automobile
parts shall comply with this subchapter or be removed from the property. Should
it become necessary, the city will remove the junk, automobile bodies or
automobile parts from the property and the cost for the removal shall become
the responsibility of the property owner; if the cost for removal shall go
unpaid, the same shall become a lien upon the property and collected in the
manner prescribed for the collection of delinquent taxes. The property owner
shall also be liable for prosecution under.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who is convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99, as amended of the city's Code of Ordinances unless otherwise specified.
All persons shall be required to correct or remedy any violation or defects
within a reasonable time when not specified. Each day that the protested
conditions are maintained shall constitute an additional offense. The
application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions by court order.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 94: SMOKING
Section
   
94.01   Findings and determinations
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Application to city-owned facilities and vehicles
   
94.04   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
94.05   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
94.06   Prohibition of smoking in certain outdoor areas
   
94.07   Reasonable distance of entry and outdoor area
   
94.08   Where smoking not regulated
   
94.09   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
94.10   Posting of signs
   
94.11   Non-retaliation; non-waiver of rights
   
94.12   Public education
   
94.13   Governmental agency cooperation
   
94.14   Other applicable laws
   
94.15   Interpretation for intent
   
94.16   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   The City Council of the City of Goose Creek, South Carolina, hereby finds
and determines:
   (A)   The City of Goose Creek, South Carolina (the “city”), is an
incorporated municipality located in Berkeley County, South Carolina, and as
such possesses all powers granted to municipalities by the Constitution and the
laws of the State of South Carolina, including the powers enumerated in S.C.
Code § 5-7-30 (2005 Supp) relating to regulating streets, markets, and public
health.
   (B)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major contributor
to indoor air pollution, and that breathing secondhand smoke (also known as
environmental tobacco smoke) is a cause of disease in healthy nonsmokers,
including heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease, and lung cancer. The
National Cancer Institute has determined that smoke is responsible for the
early deaths of up to 65,000 Americans annually. (National Cancer Institute
(NCI), “Health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke: the report
of the California Environmental Protection Agency. Smoking and Tobacco Control
Monograph 10,” Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health, National Cancer
Institute (NCI), August 1999.). The Surgeon General has declared that:
      (1)   Secondhand smoke causes disease and premature death in nonsmokers
exposed to smoke;
      (2)   Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk for
sudden death syndrome, acute respiratory infections, ear problems, and more
severe asthma;
      (3)   Adults exposed to secondary smoke have a higher risk of coronary
heart disease and lung cancer;
      (4)   There is no safe level of exposure to secondhand smoke; and
      (5)   Separating smoking and nonsmoking sections of indoor areas does not
sufficiently remove the threats of secondhand smoke in enclosed areas.
   (C)   A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the
workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled businesses suffer a 25% to 50%
higher risk of heart attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular
disease and cancer, as well as increased acute respiratory disease and
measurable decrease. In lung function (Pitsavos C; Panagiotakos D.B.
Chrysohoou, C; Skoumas J.; Tziournis K.; Stefanadis C; Toutouzas P.,
“Association between exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and the
development of acute coronary syndromes: the CARDI02000 case-control study,”
Tobacco Control 11(3): 220-225, September 2002.)
   (D)   Smoke-filled workplaces result in higher worker absenteeism due to
respiratory disease, lower productivity higher cleaning and maintenance costs,
increased health insurance rates, and increased liability claims for diseases
related to exposure to secondhand smoke (“The high price of cigarette smoking,"
Business & Health 15(8), Supplement A: 6-9, August 1997.)
   (E)   Certain outdoor events, such as parades, festivals, and other public
gatherings, result in nonsmokers finding themselves in close proximity to
persons who are smoking which can be reasonably seen to have the same effects
of exposure as when nonsmokers are exposed to smoke in the same enclosed space.
Lighted cigarettes, cigars, and pipes of people standing or sitting in close
proximity have the potential of burning those with whom they inadvertently come
into direct contact and making the air quality and peaceful enjoyment of
outdoor events unreasonably restricted for nonsmokers.
   (F)   When there is a presence of secondhand smoke in enclosed spaces or in
outside areas where there is a public gathering resulting in people being in
close proximity in places that are otherwise open to the public at large
inevitably results in persons who do not smoke being forced to bear unwarranted
health risks and inappropriate deprivation of peaceful enjoyment of the
premises to which they have been invited or permitted to enter, even when steps
have been taken to separate “smoking” and “nonsmoking” areas within the
confined space.
   (G)   The city recognizes that smoke creates a danger to the health and
safety of the public at large and that, in order to protect the health and
welfare of the public, it is necessary to restrict smoking in the manner
provided for in this article (the “article”).
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context shall clearly indicate some other meaning, the terms
defined in this section shall, for all purposes of this article and other
documents herein referenced, have the meanings herein specified. Definitions
shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of any of the
terms herein defined
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including retail
establishments where goods or services are offered for sale; professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural, or other professional services are delivered; and private clubs.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages, commission goods or services in kind or like
compensation, and it shall also mean a person who volunteers his or her
services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the floor
to the ceiling, including stationary structures and mobile public conveyances;
parking structures and other facilities having only partial exterior walls but
otherwise enclosed by ceilings and floors shall also be included in this
definition.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of persons having diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other
medical physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited
to, hospitals rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight
control clinics nursing homes (except as otherwise permitted herein), homes for
the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. This definition shall include all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within health care
facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and
vehicles. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT for purposes of this
article unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care, or health care
facility. Nor is a private passenger motor vehicle a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT when
used in the performance of employment responsibilities, provided it is not
being used as public conveyance.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes, or for purposes of benefiting particular club members and
their guests, which is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social
patriotic political benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary
gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. The
affairs and management of the organization are conducted by a board of
directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting. The organization has established bylaws and/or a constitution
to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an exemption from
the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. Section 501.
Establishments which are in fact operating as bars, restaurants, or
entertainment venues primarily for the pecuniary benefit of the owner, or chief
operating officer, or other person having substantial control shall not be
treated as private clubs under this article.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or to which the public
is permitted to have access, including but not limited to banks, bars,
educational facilities, health care facilities, hotel and motel lobbies,
laundromats, public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, theaters, waiting rooms, sports
arena, stadiums and ball parks. A private club is a PUBLIC PLACE when being
used for a function to which the general public is allowed entry. A private
residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a childcare, adult day
care, or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including but not limited to coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, ice cream parlors, and private and public
school cafeterias, which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests,
or employees, as well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is
prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall
include a bar area within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental. The term specifically includes cigar bars, which are
establishments licensed for the on-premises sale of beer, wine, and alcoholic
beverages as well as some food service, but the term does not include any
establishment which is primarily a bar or restaurant and which undertakes to
make retail offerings of tobacco products as a means of circumventing the
purposes of this article.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor line in which one or more persons are waiting for or
receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange
of money.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public plaza, promenade, walkway, or hall area
that serves to connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted, aerosolized,
vaporized, or liquid cigar, cigarette, pipe, electronic smoking device, hookah
(regardless of whether or not it contains tobacco) or any other lighted,
heated, tobacco or plant product intended for inhalation, including marijuana,
whether natural or synthetic, in any manner or in any form.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other
events.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013; Ord. 2025-006, passed 2-11-2025)
§ 94.03 APPLICATION TO CITY-OWNED FACILITIES AND VEHICLES.
   All enclosed facilities, buildings and vehicles owned, leased or operated by
the city shall be subject to the provisions of this article, excluding golf
carts.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.04 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the city,
including but not limited to, the following places:
   (A)   Galleries, libraries, and museums.
   (B)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and nonprofit entitles patronized by the public, including but not
limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, hotels, and motels.
   (C)   Bars.
   (D)   Bingo facilities.
   (E)   Convention facilities, conference centers, and exhibition halls.
   (F)   Educational facilities, both public and private.
   (G)   Elevators.
   (H)   Health care facilities.
   (I)   Hotel and motel lobbies.
   (J)   Licensed childcare and adult day care facilities.
   (K)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities.
   (L)   Polling places.
   (M)   Private clubs when being used for a function to which the general
public is invited.
   (N)   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, and
ticket boarding, and waiting areas of public transit depots.
   (O)   Restaurants.
   (P)   Restrooms, lobbies reception areas, hallways and other common-use
areas.
   (Q)   Retail stores.
   (R)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly including school
buildings.
   (S)   Service lines.
   (T)   Shopping malls.
   (U)   Sports arenas.
   (V)   Theaters, performance hails, lecture halls, and Similar facilities,
inclusive of lobbies, audience seating areas, dressing rooms, projections
booths, back stage areas, and the stage, but excluding smoking on stage when it
is an integral part of a theatrical performance.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment without exception, including but not limited to common work areas,
auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices,
elevators, hallways, .medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs,
restrooms, vehicles used for the conveyance of the public, but not including
vehicles used in performing employment responsibilities when the sole occupants
and users are person who smoke.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated by employers to all
existing employees by the effective date of this article and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2-13) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN CERTAIN OUTDOOR AREAS.
   Smoking shall also be prohibited in certain outdoor areas when the use
involves a gathering of the public, regardless of the number actually assembled
for the event, performance, or competition. This prohibition shall apply to:
   (A)   Amphitheaters.
   (B)   Ball parks and stadiums when in use for athletic competitions or
public performances.
   (C)   Parades and special events on public streets and city property,
although the City Administrator has the discretion, but not the obligation, to
establish designated smoking areas in or in proximity to the parade or event
area.
   (D)   Dining areas in encroachment areas on public sidewalks, plazas and
parks.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 REASONABLE DISTANCE OF ENTRY AND OUTDOOR AREA.
   Smoking is prohibited within a distance of ten feet from any entry into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited, so as to insure that tobacco smoke
does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or
other means. Smoking is also prohibited within ten feet of the boundary of the
outdoor areas where smoking is prohibited. Persons who have begun smoking prior
to approaching the ten-foot distance may continue doing so provided they do not
stop, stand, sit, or linger within the ten-foot distance.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
94.04 through
94.06 of this article:
   (A)   Private residences except when used as a licensed childcare, adult day
care, or health care facility.
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms, provided, however, that not more than 20% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated all smoking rooms on the same
floor must he contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this article. The
status of rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may not be changed except to add
additional nonsmoking rooms.
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores, provided that smoke from these places does not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
article.
   (D)   Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed in a room where smoking is
permitted; provided that smoke from these places does not infiltrate into areas
where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this article.
   (E)   Private clubs that have no employees, except when being used for a
function to which the general public is admitted.
   (F)   Outdoor areas of places of employment except those covered by the
provisions of §§
94.06 and
94.07 of this article.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.09 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, an owner, operator,
manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility, or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area as a
nonsmoking place. Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign
conforming to the requirements of §
94.10(A) is posted.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.10 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this article, by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of
that place.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this article shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this article by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of the area.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.11 NON-RETALIATION; NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer
because that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by
this article or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this article.
   (B)   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city shall engage in a continuing program to explain and clarify the
purposes and requirements of this article to citizens affected by it and to
guide owners/operators and managers in their compliance
with it. The program may include publication of a brochure for affected
businesses and individuals explaining the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.13 GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION.
   The city shall annually request other governmental and educational agencies
having facilities within the city to establish local operating procedures in
cooperation and compliance with this article. This includes urging all federal,
state, county, city and school district agencies to update their existing
smoking control regulations to be consistent with the current health findings
regarding secondhand smoke.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.14 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This article shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.15 INTERPRETATION FOR INTENT.
   It is the intent of city council to prohibit smoking whenever the private
choice of smoking intrudes or has the capacity to intrude upon the right of
persons concerned about protecting their own rights to be free from the hazards
and inconvenience of secondhand smoke in places where they work, stand, sit,
walk, dine, drink, read, study or engage in entertainment and recreation. All
provisions shall be construed to achieve these purposes.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This article shall be enforced by the Office of the City Administrator
or an authorized designee.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this article shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the city.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this article may
initiate enforcement with the Office of the City Administrator.
   (D)   The building codes division, Fire Department, or their designees
shall, while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated inspections,
inspect for compliance with this article.
   (E)   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this article shall inform persons violating this article of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, an employee or
member of the public may bring legal action against a person, business, or
organization in violation of this article to enforce this article.
   (G)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the city or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner operator,
manager or other person in control of a public place or a place of employment
to comply with the provisions of this article may apply for injunctive relief
to enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 13-001,passed 1-8-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this article shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a
fine of not less than $10 nor more than $25.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this article shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine of not less
than $10 nor more than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the fines established by this section repeated
violations of this article by a person who owns, manages, operates, or
otherwise controls a public place or place of employment may result in the
suspension or revocation of any occupancy permit or business license issued to
the person for the premises on which the violation occurred.
   (D)   Violation of this article is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the city by restraining order, preliminary and permanent
injunction or other means provided for by law, and the city may take action to
recover the costs of the nuisance abatement.
   (E)   Each day of a continuing violation of this article shall be considered
a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 1-8-2013)
CHAPTER 95: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Administration
   
95.001   General
   
95.002   Applicability
   
95.003   Code enforcement
   
95.004   Duties and powers
   
95.005   Approval
   
95.006   Violations
   
95.007   Notices and orders
   
95.008   Means of appeal
Definitions
   
95.020   General
   
95.021   Definitions
General Requirements
   
95.035   General
   
95.036   Exterior property areas
   
95.037   Prohibited vehicles
   
95.038   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
   
95.039   Exterior structure
   
95.040   Unsafe structures
   
95.041   Emergency measures
   
95.042   Demolition
   
95.043   Extermination
References
   
95.055   References
ADMINISTRATION
§ 95.001 GENERAL.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of the City of Goose Creek, South Carolina, herein referred to as “this
Code.”
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for sanitation, protection from the elements, safety
from hazards, safe and sanitary maintenance, the responsibility of owners,
parties of interest, operators and occupants, the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (C)   Purposes. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed
purposes, which is to insure public health, safety and welfare in so far as
they are affected by the continued maintenance of structures and premises.
Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall
be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of compliance as required
herein.
   (D)   Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code is, for any reason, declared invalid by a court of law, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this code shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set forth in §
95.001. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify
different requirements, the most restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   Maintenance. Except as specified herein, the owner, parties of
interest or the owners designated agent shall be responsible for the
maintenance of buildings, structures and premises.
   (C)   Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions, of
the applicable and current building and zoning codes, enforced by the City of
Goose Creek.
   (D)   Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed
to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction, or its officers or
agencies, relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is
determined to be dangerous, unsafe or unsanitary.
   (E)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations,
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code, shall
be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's installation instructions and applicable building and
zoning codes.
   (F)   Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings when such
buildings or structures are determined by the city to be safe and not
detrimental to public health or welfare.
   (G)   Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this code shall be those that are listed in §
95.055 and considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed
extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between provisions of
this code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall
apply.
   (H)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the city.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.003 CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General. Code enforcement is hereby created and the executive official
in charge thereof is the Director of Public Works and shall hereinafter be
referred to as the code official.
   (B)   Appointment. It shall be the duty of the code official, or a duly
appointed and authorized representative(s), to determine whether any condition
exists or activity is being practiced which violates this code.
   (C)   Officers. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of the city
and, with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code official shall
have the authority to appoint code enforcement officers, inspectors, other
related technical officers and other employees as deemed necessary.
   (D)   Liability. The code official, officer or employee charged with the
enforcement of this code, while acting for the city, shall not thereby be
rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage occurring to persons or property as a result of an act required
or permitted in the discharge of official duties as provided in the South
Carolina Tort Claims Act.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.004 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   General. The city or its representative shall enforce this code and
shall take necessary actions to ensure that violations are prosecuted in
accordance with this code. Should it become necessary, the city may remove such
violation from the property and the cost for such removal shall become the
responsibility of the owner/parties of interest. If such cost for removal shall
go unpaid, the same shall become a lien upon the property and shall be
collected in the manner prescribed for the collection of delinquent taxes.
Responsible parties of interest shall also be liable for prosecution pursuant
to this code.
   (B)   Rule-making authority. The code official shall have authority, as
necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general welfare, to
adopt and promulgate departmental rules and procedures, to interpret and
implement the provisions of this code, to secure the intent thereof, and to
designate requirements applicable because of local climate or other conditions.
   (C)   Inspections. The cause for inspections shall be formed either by
citizen complaints or city staff observations.
   (D)   Right of entry. The city, or its representative, shall have the right-
to-enter onto any premise at any reasonable time for the purpose of making an
inspection or investigation as required by this code, subject to the
constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is
refused, the city is authorized to pursue a search warrant as provided by law.
   (E)   Identification. City representatives shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
code.
   (F)   Notices and orders. All notices and orders necessary to ensure
compliance with this code shall be issued in accordance with this code and the
city's prescribed procedures and policies.
   (G)   Records. All official records of all business and activities
pertaining to this code shall be maintained in accordance with the city's
prescribed procedures and policies.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.005 APPROVAL.
   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the city shall have the authority to
grant modifications for individual cases, provided the city shall first find
that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical
and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code
and that such modification does not lessen the requirements of this code. The
details of actions granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the
code case files.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.006 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any owner/party of interest to
be in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Notice of violation. Notice of violations or orders shall be served in
accordance with §
95.007 of this Code.
   (C)   Prosecution of violation. Any owner/party of interest failing to
comply with a notice of violation or order served in accordance with §
95.007 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil infraction
as determined by the city and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability
offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the city may
institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct
or abate such violation. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction
on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (D)   Violation penalties. Any owner/party of interest, who shall violate a
provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state
or local laws. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served may be deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the city from instituting appropriate action to
restrain, correct or abate a violation or to stop an illegal act.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.007 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to person responsible. Whenever the city determines that there
has been a violation of this code or has grounds to believe a violation has
occurred, notice may be given in the manner prescribed in divisions (A)(1) and
(2) below and in accordance with policies and procedures prescribed in the City
of Goose Creek Code Enforcement Standard Operating Procedures, to the owner/
parties of interest responsible for the violation as specified in this code.
Notices for condemnation shall also comply with this section of the code.
      (1)   Form. Such notice prescribed in this section of this code shall be
in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Be in writing or verbally;
         (b)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued; and
         (d)   Include a correction order allowing a designated time period to
make the repair and improvements required to bring the property into compliance
with the provisions of this code.
      (2)   Method of delivery. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly
delivered if one or more of the following methods is used:
         (a)   Delivered personally;
         (b)   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the property or
structure affected by such notice; and
         (c)   Sent by certified or regular mail addressed to the owners/
parties of interest last known address of record.
   (B)   Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in §
95.006(D).
   (C)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner/parties of
interest of any dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order
or upon whom a notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage,
lease or otherwise dispose of such dwelling, unit or structure to another until
the provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been
complied with or until such owner/parties of interest shall first furnish the
grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or
notice of violation issued by the city and shall furnish the code official a
signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or
lessee acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of
violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making
the corrections or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of
violation.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.008 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   General. There shall be no appeals to this code except those provided by the
courts.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
DEFINITIONS
§ 95.020 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this code, have the following meanings.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future, words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter,
the singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the International Building Code, International Fire Code,
International Zoning Code, International Plumbing Code, international
Mechanical Code or the International Electrical Code, such terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
   (E)   Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit,” “dwelling,” “premises,”
“rooming house,” “rooming unit,” “housekeeping unit” or “story” are stated in
this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words
"or any part thereof.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.021 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms and definitions shall be defined as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. To give up control of, or to cease from intending or attempting
to protect, maintain or use any vehicle, property, premise or structure.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE/PROPERTY. Any derelict or wrecked property/vehicle which
has been left abandoned or unprotected from the elements and shall include
inoperative or partially dismantled vehicles, trailers, boats, machinery,
appliances, furniture, construction materials and other similar articles used
in or in conjunction with the home, property or vehicle.
   ANIMAL WASTE. Animal excreta, including cleanings from barns, stables,
corrals, all pens, or conveyances used for stabling, transporting, or penning
of animals, fowl or reptiles.
   APPROVED. Approved by the City of Goose Creek.
   ASHES. Any residue, hot or cold, that occurs and remains due to burning or
other similar manner of combustion.
   AUTOMOBLE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment which is maintained or used for
buying or selling vehicle bodies, wrecked, scraped, ruined, or dismantled
vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   BLIGHT. Any one or more of the following conditions or activities:
      (1)   Abandoned building or structure;
      (2)   Attractive nuisance, as in any property in an unsecured state so as
to potentially constitute an attraction to children, vagrants, criminals or
other unauthorized persons or so as to enable persons to resort thereto to
committing an unlawful act;
      (3)   A building or structure that is in a state of disrepair to the
extent so as to pose a threat to public health, safety or welfare; and
      (4)   Property inadequately maintained to the extent so as to pose a
threat to public health, safety or welfare.
   BRUSH. All trees and plant material which is growing or has grown on any
premise.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative.
   CONDEMN. To judge unfit for human occupancy or unsafe as to the extent as to
pose a threat to public health and safety.
   CONTRACTOR. Any individual(s) who provides a service and receives payment of
any kind for said services rendered.
   CITY. City of Goose Creek, South Carolina.
   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected officials of the City of Goose Creek, South
Carolina.
   COUNTY. Berkeley County, South Carolina.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building, vehicle, public or private
property or part thereof characterized by excessive holes, breaks, rotting,
crumbling, peeling, rusting, neglect, lack of maintenance or other evidence of
physical decay or excessive use.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal owner(s) of the property. The
easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
   EMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life threatening
injury or death at any time.
   END OF WORK WEEK. Friday at 5:00 p.m.
   EXPOSED TO PUBLIC VIEW. Any premises or any part thereof, or any building or
vehicle or any part thereof, which may be viewed from a natural position,
including any lawful elevated location on either public or private property,
using unassisted vision.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of the owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, vermin or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places by removing or making
inaccessible materials that serve as their food, by poison spraying,
fumigating, and trapping or by any other legal pest elimination methods.
   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT. The government of the United States of America.
   GARBAGE. Any organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food items. Also, cans,
bottles, rags, boxes, and other comparable items and waste.
   HIGHWAY. A way or place of whatever nature publicly or privately maintained
and opened to use of the public or private sector for vehicular travel. Highway
includes streets, roads, boulevards, courts, circles, alleys, ways and the
like.
   IMPOUND LOT. An area incident to the operation of a business within the
city, used for the storage of vehicles from which no major parts have been
removed, and which are capable of being made fully operational and used for
storage of not more than nine vehicles at any time.
   INFESTATION. The excessive or abnormal presence of insects, rodents, vermin
or other pests.
   INOPERATIVE. Any vehicle or equipment located upon a public highway, street
or street right-of-way, alley or on public or private property which is
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative so that said vehicle or equipment is
incapable of independent operation.
   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets as it was intended and designed to do for reason including but not
limited to being unlicensed, wrecked, in a state of disrepair or incapable of
being moved under its own power.
   LITTER. Any unhealthy or unsanitary accumulation or placement of refuse,
rubbish, garbage, grass, bushes, weeds, vines, leaves, etc. on private or
public property.
   NATURAL POSITION. Standing or sitting in a manner not requiring the
assistance of additional apparatus, such as a ladder, to facilitate the viewing
of an area or object.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual(s) living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPERATOR. Any person(s) who has charge, care or control of a structure,
dwelling, premises or vehicle or any part thereof, whether with or without the
knowledge and consent of the owner, including, if applicable, a lessee.
   OWNER. Any person(s), agent, operator, firm, mortgage holder, part owner,
tenant, corporation or any entity having a legal or equitable interest in the
property or recorded in the official records of the state, county or
municipality as holding title to the property or otherwise having control of
the property including the guardian of the estate of any such person if ordered
to take possession of real property by a court.
   PARTIALLY DISMANTLED/WRECKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle from which major parts
have been removed so as to render the motor vehicle inoperative or a wrecked
vehicle where the damage to the vehicle has rendered the vehicle inoperative.
   PARTIES OF INTEREST. Any person or entity who has interest of record in a
premise or property or any who are in actual possession thereof.
   PERSON. The word PERSON shall extend and be applied to individuals, firms,
partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies political and corporate,
or any combination thereof.
   PREMISES. The exterior of any building, structure or any parcel of land
(whether improved or unimproved) including the area up to the paved edge of the
road, street, curb or alley and including any adjacent sidewalks, easements and
right-of-way.
   PUBLIC PLACES. Any building, park, cemetery, school yard or open space owned
by the public and used for the general welfare of the public.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Lands and improvements owned by the Federal government, the
state, the county or the city, that include but are not limited to vehicles,
buildings, grounds, parks, playgrounds, streets, sidewalks, parkways,
easements, right-of-way and similar properties.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The individual appointed by the City Administrator to
carry out the functions of the city's Public Works Department.
   REFUSE. Any unhealthy or unsafe accumulation of rubbish, litter, leaves,
grass, bushes, vines, tree branches, garbage, waste, household items and
building materials, etc., on private or public property.
   REPAIR. The improvement, replacement or restoration, of an existing premise
or vehicle to its original state with similar materials or parts to enhance its
current value. The term REPAIR or REPAIRS shall not apply to any alterations
such as moving of walls, additions of rooms or similar changes of construction.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage, the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and other similar materials.
   SCDHEC. South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   SCRAP PROCESSORS. Any person(s) engaged in the business of buying scrap iron
and metals, including, but not limited to, vehicles, for the specific purpose
of processing into raw material for melting purposes, and whose product is
ferrous and non-ferrous scrap for shipment to steel mills, foundries, smelters
and refineries, and having facilities and machinery designed for such
processing.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENCE. An offence in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as part of its case. It is
enough to prove that the defendant either did an act that was prohibited, or
failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or any portion thereof
   TENANT. A person(s), corporation, partnership or group, whether or not legal
owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof.
   UNASSISTED VISION. Vision without the assistance of magnification apparatus
such as binoculars but not including prescription eyeglasses or photographic
equipment.
   VACANT. Not occupied or being used for its expressed intended purpose.
   VEHICLES. Any device by which a person(s) or property may be propelled,
moved or towed upon a highway, except a vehicle moved by human power or those
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VIEWABLE. That which can be viewed from public property, or private property
if proper permission is granted to do so, from a natural position, including
any lawful elevated position, with unassisted vision.
   WEEDS. All uncultivated vegetative growth.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner, generally plumb, level, square,
in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 95.035 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of §§
95.035 through
95.043 shall govern the minimum conditions and the responsibilities of persons
for maintenance of structures and exterior property.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner/parties of interest of the premises shall
maintain the structures and exterior property in compliance with these
requirements, except as otherwise provided for in this code.
   (C)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and premises thereof
or vacant land shall be maintained in a safe, secure and sanitary condition as
provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the
public health or safety.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.036 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior properties and premises shall be maintained
in a safe and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon. This requirement does not apply to approved water features, retention
areas and reservoirs.
   (C)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be maintained free from hazardous
conditions.
   (D)   Lawns. All lawns shall be maintained free from grasses, weeds or other
plant growth in excess of ten inches tall, that portion of which equals at
least 50% of the viewable ground cover thereon. Plant growth is defined as all
grasses, annual plants and vegetation. This term shall not include cultivated
flowers and gardens.
   (E)   Landscaping. The owner/parties of interest of property shall be
responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping existing or which previously
had been installed on any developed site within the city. All landscaping shall
be maintained in a healthy and growing condition.
   (F)   Trees/shrubs. All plant materials, especially trees and shrubs,
afflicted with decay, disease, insect infestation or otherwise considered
dangerous to other plant life or property, shall be removed or appropriately
treated. Dead or dying trees, shrubs and similar plant material shall be
removed. All cuttings shall be removed from the site and properly disposed of.
All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk or roadway must provide
a minimum of eight feet of vertical clearance above the sidewalk and 15 feet of
vertical clearance above the roadway.
   (G)   Grass cover required. The exterior open space or yard around each
structure shall be grassed and maintained or improved so as to provide for
grass, plantings or other suitable ground coverings, such as rock gardens, to
prevent soil erosion which may depreciate the value of or become detrimental to
structures, the lot or adjacent lots or structures.
   (H)   Rodent/reptile/insect infestation. All structures and exterior
property shall be kept free from rodent infestation. Where the excessive and/or
abnormal presence of rodents, reptiles or insects is found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
and eliminate pest harborage and infestation.
   (I)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, sheds, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in
good repair. Associated doors and gates, including operating systems, if
provided, shall be maintained in proper operating condition.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.037 PROHIBITED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle(s)
prohibited. No person except a duly licensed vehicle repair establishment shall
for any purpose keep, retain, store or place for more than 14 days a vehicle(s)
that has been declared by the city as wrecked, dismantled, inoperative,
unregistered or unlicensed on any private residential or commercial property in
the city except in a completely enclosed building or fenced area (minimum
height of six feet and constructed of a material and in a manner so that the
vehicle(s) cannot be seen from adjacent properties) nor shall any person except
a duly licensed vehicle repair establishment, repair, rebuild, dismantle or
tear down more than one vehicle at any time except in a completely enclosed
building or fenced area (minimum height of six feet and constructed of a
material and in a manner so that the vehicle cannot be seen from adjacent
properties). All repairs must be completed within 30 days. No wrecked,
dismantled, inoperative or unlicensed vehicle(s) shall be maintained on private
residential or commercial property for the purpose of using parts or
accessories except in a completely enclosed building or fenced area (minimum
height of six feet and constructed of a material and in a manner so that the
vehicle cannot be seen from adjacent properties).
   (B)   Wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle(s)
permitted. A duly licensed vehicle repair establishment may keep, retain, store
or place at any time more than one vehicle that has been wrecked, dismantled or
determined to be inoperative or unlicensed on the premises provided the
vehicles are actively being repaired and that the vehicles do not remain on the
premises for more than 30 days except in a completely enclosed building or
fenced area (minimum height of six feet and constructed of a material and in a
manner so that the vehicle(s) cannot be seen from adjacent properties).
   (C)   Maximum number permitted. In all residential sections of the city, no
person shall keep more than three wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or
unlicensed vehicles; said vehicles shall be stored within a completely enclosed
building or fenced area (minimum height of six feet and constructed of a
material and in a manner) away from public view.
   (D)   Duty of owner/parties of interest. When any wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative or unlicensed vehicle, as defined in this section, exists, the
owner/parties of interest, as defined in this code, of the property on which
said vehicle is situated, shall be responsible for removing, properly storing
or having said vehicle otherwise brought into compliance with the requirements
of this code through private means and shall indemnify the city of all cost
associated with the same.
   (E)   Removal of wrecked, dismantled, inoperative or unlicensed motor
vehicle(s). Any vehicle that is deemed by the city as wrecked, abandoned,
dismantled, inoperative or unlicensed pursuant to this section must be removed,
properly stored or brought into compliance with the requirements of this code
as directed by appropriate notice pursuant to city policies.
   (F)   Means of removal. Removal of said vehicle(s) shall be by the property
owner/parties of interest, as described in division (D), provided proper notice
is given pursuant to city policies.
   (G)   Impound lots. Any property within the city limits deemed by the city
as being used as an “impound lot,” as defined in this code, must comply with
the following conditions and requirements:
      (1)   The property must be free of debris and must be regularly
maintained in accordance with this code;
      (2)   The property must be completely enclosed by a fence having a
minimum height of six feet; if the property adjoins a residential district,
that section adjoining the residential district shall be completely enclosed
with a fence having a minimum height of six feet and constructed with a
material and in a manner, that ensures that the interior of the property cannot
be viewed from the residential district;
      (3)   The property may only be used for temporary storage of vehicles
which major parts have not been removed and which are capable of being made
fully operational;
      (4)   No more than nine vehicles, as defined herein, may be stored on the
property at any one time;
      (5)   Vehicle parts shall not be stored on the property;
      (6)   Vehicle parts shall not be taken or sold from vehicles stored on
such a property; and
      (7)   Vehicles stored on such a property must be parked neatly in rows
and meet or exceed all city, county, state and Federal laws governing the same.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.038 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   Swimming pools. Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition and in good repair and must meet enclosure requirements of
the city Zoning Codes.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.039 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to public
health, safety or welfare.
   (B)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including but not limited
to doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks,
fascia and fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood
surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the
elements and decay by painting or other protective covering treatment.
Excessive peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces
repainted. All siding and masonry joints as well as those between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained
weather resistant and water tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust and
corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and
coated to inhibit future rust or corrosion. Excessive oxidation stains shall be
removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (C)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from excessive deterioration.
   (D)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from excessive open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such a
condition so as to prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (E)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from excessive holes,
breaks and loose or rotting materials and maintained weatherproof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration and shall be kept in
such a condition so as to prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (F)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be
maintained in safe and sound condition and free from obstructions. Roof water
shall not be discharged in a manner that affects public health or safety.
   (G)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt cornices, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in safe
and sound condition with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (H)   Overhanging extensions. All overhanging extensions, including but not
limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in a safe and sound condition and be
properly anchored. When required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall
be protected from the elements and against excessive decay or rust by
application of weatherproofing materials, such as paint or similar surface
treatment.
   (I)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto shall be
maintained in a safe and sound condition.
   (J)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained in a safe and sound condition. All
exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and
against excessive decay or rust by application of weatherproofing materials,
such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (K)   Handrails and guards. Handrails and guards shall be maintained in a
safe and sound condition.
   (L)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, and door
frame shall be kept in a safe and sound condition and weather tight.
   (M)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from excessive
cracks and holes.
   (N)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in a safe and sound condition.
   (O)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained in a
safe and sound condition and in a manner, that prevents the entrance of
rodents, rain and surface drainage waters.
   (P)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window shall be maintained
to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage waters.
   (Q)   Fences and retaining walls (sound condition, painted or treated). All
fences, retaining walls or similar structures shall be anchored in such a way
that such devices remain firmly in the ground, and shall be constructed in a
workmanlike manner so that such devices shall always be in a safe and sound
condition. All fences, retaining walls and similar structures shall be erected
parallel to property lines (if applicable), plumb, taunt, and the top portions
being level. The bottom portion of such devices shall follow the contour of the
ground. If any such fence, retaining wall or similar structure is found not to
be in a sound or safe condition, it shall be removed, repaired or replaced.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.040 UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. When a structure is determined by the city to be unsafe or is
determined unlawful, such structures may be condemned pursuant to the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is determined to be
dangerous to life, health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of
the structure because such structure is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated,
structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that
partial or complete collapse is possible.
   (C)   Closing of vacant structures. If a structure is vacant and determined
unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and is not in danger of structural
collapse, the city is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the
premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the city may cause the premises to be closed and
secured through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement by
private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate
upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate
and may be collected by any other legal source.
   (D)   Notice. Whenever the city has condemned a structure under the
provisions of this section, notice may be posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the structure affected by such notice and served on the owner/parties of
interest responsible for the structure in accordance with §
95.007(A)(2). The notice shall be in the form prescribed in §
95.007(A)(1).
   (E)   Placarding. Upon failure of the owner/parties of interest responsible
to comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the city may post
on the premises a placard bearing the word “condemned” and a statement of the
penalties provided for occupying the premises or removing the placard.
   (F)   Placard removal. The city may remove the condemnation placard whenever
the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were
based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation
placard without the approval of the city shall be subject to the penalties
provided by this code.
   (G)   Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure, condemned and placarded
by the city shall be vacated as ordered by the city. Any person who shall
occupy a placarded premise and any owner/parties of interest responsible for
the premises who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premise shall be liable
for the penalties provided by this code.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.041 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   Eminent danger. When determined by the city, that there is eminent
danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which endangers life,
or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered
by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual or potential danger
to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure, the city
is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate
the premises forthwith. The city may cause to be posted at each entrance to
such structure a notice reading as follows: “This structure is unsafe and its
occupancy has been prohibited by the City of Goose Creek.” It shall be unlawful
for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the
structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition or of
demolishing the same.
   (B)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever the city determines there is eminent danger due to an unsafe
condition, the city may order the necessary work to be done, including the
boarding up of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether or
not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted and, shall cause
such other action to be taken as the city deems necessary to meet such
emergency.
   (C)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the city may
temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (D)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of §
95.041, the city may employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the
required work as expeditiously as possible.
   (E)   Cost of emergency repairs. Cost incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the city but shall be a lien against the
property which may be filed against the property and pursued by all available
legal means. The legal counsel of the city may institute appropriate action
against the owner of the premises where the emergency work was performed for
the recovery of such costs including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.042 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   General. The city may order the owner of any premises upon which there
is located any structure, which the city determines is so old, dilapidated or
has become so out of repair as to be dangerous or unsafe and such that it is
unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such structure or
if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair and make
safe and sanitary or demolish and remove at the owners’ option or where there
has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure for a period of
more than two years, to demolish and remove such structure;
   (B)   Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
95.007;
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner/parties of interest of a premise fails
to comply with demolition order within the time prescribed, the city may cause
the structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate which may be
filed against the property. The legal counsel of the city may institute
appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the work was
performed for the recovery of such costs including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
§ 95.043 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from rodent and insect
infestation. All structures in which an excessive or abnormal presence of
rodents or insects is found shall be promptly exterminated by approved
procedures that will not be injurious to human health. After extermination,
proper precautions shall be taken to prevent future infestation issues.
   (B)   Owner. The owner/parties of interest of any infested structure shall
be responsible for extermination within the structure prior to the structure
being occupied.
   (C)   Single occupant. The owner/parties of interest of a one-family
dwelling or of a single-tenant non-residential structure shall be responsible
for extermination of the premises.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy. The owner/parties of interest of a structure
containing two or more dwelling units, multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a
non-residential structure shall be responsible for extermination regardless if
infestation is caused by failure of an occupant to prevent such infestation.
(Ord. 17-016, passed  7-11-2017)
REFERENCES
§ 95.055 REFERENCES.
   Henceforth any and all future editions of the City of Goose Creek Code of
Enforcement Standard Operating Procedures; and the International Codes adopted
by the International Code Council and the South Carolina Building Codes (BCC),
with South Carolina modifications, will be hereby automatically adopted and
enforced by the City of Goose Creek as pertains to this chapter.
   CODE OF ORDINANCES – CITY OF GOOSE CREEK SOUTH CAROLINA
   CITY OF GOOSE CREEK CODE OF ENFORCEMENT STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES
   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
   INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
   INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
   INTERNATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
   INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE
   INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
   INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE
(Ord. 17-016, passed 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 96: LARGE OUTDOOR EVENTS ON PROPERTY NOT OWNED OR CONTROLLED BY THE
CITY
Section
   
96.01   Permit and compliance required; owner and occupant responsibility
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Exclusions
   
96.04   Permit process; requirements
   
96.05   Service of alcohol
   
96.06   Bond
   
96.07   Other laws
   
96.08   Compliance and enforcement
§ 96.01 PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; OWNER AND OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person, organization or other entity shall sponsor or knowingly permit a
large outdoor event, as defined in §
96.02, without first obtaining a permit from the city in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. No person having received such a permit shall
conduct or allow to be conducted a large outdoor event without complying with
the terms of the permit. No property owner, tenant or other lawful occupant of
the premises shall provide a written authorization for the large event without
also taking all reasonable steps and precautions within the scope of their
authority over the property to ensure the sponsor's compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Finance Director, or such other person as the City
Administrator shall designate, to exercise the city's duties, responsibilities,
and authority under this chapter.
   LARGE OUTDOOR EVENT. Any performance, party, dinner, sale or like
occurrence, except as listed in "exclusions" in §
96.03 which:
      (1)   Is held outside in a parking lot, field, lawn, driveway or like
area which is not contained within a permanent improvement having a roof
supported by enclosing walls, lattices or other upright structural
configuration;
      (2)   Has or reasonably should be anticipated as having 250 or more
members of the public at large in attendance at any one time during the
occurrence; and
      (3)   Is open to members of the public at large.
   OPEN TO MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AT LARGE. Attendance is extended and granted
to any person or group of persons who by virtue of paying an admission fee,
entrance fee, cover charge or like payment without regard to having known or
had prior dealings with the promoter, sponsor, owner, lessee, or manager of the
premises or of the event. The term OPEN TO MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AT LARGE
includes events for which no such charge is made, but which is advertised,
promoted, or sponsored in association with or in collaboration with an
organized convention, conference, or other assemblage for which there is a
registering process that is advertised and promoted by radio, television,
printed publication, mail outs, mass emailing or mass social media contact. The
term OPEN TO MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AT LARGE also includes such events for which
no such charge is made but which offers food, beverages or entertainment, or
some combination of them, for payment.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 96.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following occurrences and
circumstances:
   (A)   Any event held inside a theater, church, school, assembly hall, arena,
governmental council chamber or board meeting room, or like area within a
structure and specifically designed to be used as a place for the assemblage of
persons;
   (B)   A private event to which written invitations have been extended to
specific persons such as a wedding, anniversary party, nonprofit fund raiser,
political reception or fund raiser for a candidate for public office or
political party or similar occurrence for which invitations have been extended,
even if there are attendees who did not receive an invitation; provided,
however, a mass mailing or mass emailing, of promotional material to a customer
list for what is primarily a commercial event shall not exclude the activity
from coverage by this chapter;
   (C)   Parades and other events occurring on city streets, parks, plazas, and
other city-owned property for which are subject to the provisions of Chapter
72;
   (D)   Scheduled events held in a baseball stadium or football stadium with
the consent and approval of the owner or manager of the facility;
   (E)   Events which are held on the grounds of a school, place of worship,
business, or nonprofit corporation and which are attended primarily by
attendees of the school, place of worship, business, or nonprofit corporation;
   (F)   Family reunions.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 96.04 PERMIT PROCESS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The director shall prepare a permit application and develop a process
for submitting, considering, and approving, approving with modifications and
conditions, or denying applications which are timely submitted and complete; an
application must be submitted no later than 30 days prior to the event. The
process shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and may be supplemented
for purposes of clarification and special conditions associated with the time,
date, day of the week, location and comparable variables associated with an
application.
   (B)   No permit shall be granted to an applicant for a large outdoor event
permit unless the applicant establishes with reasonable substantiation that
provisions are in place to comply with the following:
      (1)   Location. The address of the location, as well as the name and
relevant contact information of the owner and lawful occupant of the premises,
and, where applicable, the name of the manager of the premises.
      (2)   Sponsor identity. The name of the sponsor or promoter of the event,
who shall be the person capable of making decisions during the planning,
preparation, operation, and cleanup of the event.
      (3)   Noise control. Evidence of workable plans to mitigate and limit the
sound from the event so that the effects of excessive noise are minimized.
Note: An approved large outdoor event is not exempt from the noise ordinance,
unless the approved permit so specifies and then the permit must address the
terms and conditions of noise control and may be revoked for failure to comply.
      (4)   Site plan. A reasonably accurate representation of the boundaries
of the site and the location and character of uses of any property abutting the
property on which the event is to occur; if vehicles are to be allowed within
the site area, there must be a showing of safe ingress and egress routes as
well as routes for safe internal circulation.
      (5)   Date, day of week and times. The date, day of the week and
beginning time of the event as well as the date, day of the week and ending
time of the event. No event may begin earlier than 8:00 a.m. absent a clear and
convincing showing by the applicant for the earlier time, and the director may
set reasonable limits upon the latest time for operation in view of the
potential impact of the activity upon surrounding properties and their
occupants, with special regard to any nearby residential uses.
      (6)   Toilets. A workable plan for the placement of useable public
toilets in such numbers as to comply with at least one toilet for every 250
persons estimated to be in attendance and the most intensely attended portion
of the event. If special circumstances require, the director may increase the
number of toilets required.
      (7)   Toilet sanitation. Substantiation that the toilets will be in a
clean, sanitary, functioning, and useable condition throughout the event in
accordance with the standards used for special events on city property.
      (8)   Parking plan. A suitable parking plan, inclusive of staffing, to
ensure orderly and reasonable parking where otherwise permitted by law and with
the consent of property owners.
      (9)   Maintenance and cleanup. A workable plan for the control of solid
waste during the event and a cleanup plan for after the event; at a minimum the
plan must specify: the placing and size of solid waste receptacles for use by
attendees, vendors, and other participants; the frequency of replacement or
emptying the receptacles; the arrangements to reduce the likelihood of litter
affecting nearby properties and rights-of-way; and the time and thoroughness of
cleanup.
      (10)   Monitoring and security. A description of the method by which
there will be monitors of activity and crowd movement as well as security for
the activity; at a minimum the description shall address the placement, duties,
and authority of the personnel. Pursuant to S.C. Code Ann. § 23-31-520(A), if
the open carry of firearms is prohibited at the event, the person or
organization hosting the event must post signs at the event stating the
prohibition of firearms during the event. The city must be advised at the time
of application as to whether open carrying of firearms is going to be allowed
or not allowed and the organizer cannot elect to change from open carry not
allowed, to open carry allowed after the permit is granted.
      (11)   Written authorization. A statement reduced to writing in a form
acceptable to the reasonable satisfaction of the director by which both the
owner of the property and the tenant or other lawful occupant affirm that they
are aware of the program to be offered and that they authorize the occurrences.
      (12)   Contacts for nearby occupants and owners. Substantiation that
persons owning and occupying property within 500 feet of the site have been
provided the name, telephone numbers and address of the sponsor of the event;
the telephone numbers must include the sponsor's cell phone which must be
operable during the event.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 96.05 SERVICE OF ALCOHOL.
   Any sponsor planning to serve beverages containing alcohol at a large
outdoor event must disclose that fact on the permit application. All requisite
state alcohol licenses and permits must be obtained and a copy provided to the
director prior to the event. No service shall be allowed unless it is in
conformity with state law. Failure to comply is a basis for immediate
termination of the event.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 96.06 BOND.
   A sponsor must post a bond with the city of $500 for cleanup costs
associated with public rights-of-way and public property located within 500
feet of the event site. If the city incurs no cleanup costs attributable to the
event within 48 hours of the time the event ends, then the full amount will be
returned promptly to the sponsor. If the city incurs personnel or other
expenses for cleanup costs reasonably attributable to the event and determined
within 48 hours, then the city may retain so much as needed for such costs and
return the reminder. If the city during that time receives a complaint about
damage and cleanup costs from the occupant or owner of other property within 48
hours of the event, and the complaint reasonably relates to conditions
associated with the event, then the city reserves the right to retain
possession of the full amount of the bond until it receives a signed release of
claims from the complainant. Nothing in this section precludes either the city
or the occupant or owner of property located within 500 feet of the event site
of seeking additional damages from the event sponsor not covered by the bond.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 96.07 OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter does not relieve the
sponsor from complying with all other licensing and permitting requirements of
the city, including business license, occupancy permits in the event stages or
tents are utilized. Nor does such compliance relieve the sponsor from
compliance with the fire code, traffic laws, parking requirements, sanitation
provisions or any other municipal ordinance.
   (B)   In accordance with §
110.001, a business license is required when operating within the City of Goose
Creek. All promoters and vendors are licensed individually unless a blanket
business license has been issued; at the discretion of the Finance Director.
The business license will be based on all promoter's fees and an estimation of
gross revenue of all vendors of the event. All federal, state and local
regulations are strictly applied.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 96.08 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   All applicants for a large outdoor event permit shall make full disclosure
of all material facts asked for on the application and known to them at the
time of application. Failure to disclose fully is a separate violation in
addition to any others arising under this chapter. The police and other
personnel designated by the City Administrator to enforce this chapter are
authorized to discontinue immediately a large outdoor event which has not been
properly permitted or which fails to comply with the terms and conditions of
the permit. Any sponsor or promoter of such an event shall be entitled to
appeal the decision immediately by telephone or other comparable communication
device to the City Administrator, or in his or her absence or unavailability,
to the deputy City Administrator or other acting administrator, who may affirm,
modify, or reverse the termination of the event. Persons convicted of a willful
violation of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalties clause of
this code in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2021-032, passed 12-14-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES, TAXES AND REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES PROGRAM
      
113.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES, TAXES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   License required
   
110.002   Definitions
   
110.003   Purpose and duration
   
110.004   Business license tax; refund
   
110.005   Registration required
   
110.006   Deductions, exemptions, and charitable organizations
   
110.007   False application unlawful
   
110.008   Display and transfer
   
110.009   Administration of subchapter
   
110.010   Inspections and audits
   
110.011   Assessments; payment under protest; appeal
   
110.012   Delinquent license taxes; partial payment
   
110.013   Notices
   
110.014   Denial of license
   
110.015   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.016   Appeals to Council; or its designee
   
110.017   Consent, franchise or license required for use of streets
   
110.018   Confidentiality
   
110.019   Violations
   
110.020   Severability
   
110.021   Classification and rates
Mobile Food Vendor
   
110.035   License required
   
110.036   Definitions
   
110.037   Duration of license; transfer
   
110.038   Permitted food; beverages
   
110.039   License; fees
   
110.040   Hours of operation; location
   
110.041   Requirements
   
110.042   Signage
   
110.043   Prohibited conduct
   
110.044   Hospitality tax
   
110.045   Exemptions
Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Vendors
   
110.055   License required
   
110.056   Definitions
   
110.057   Exceptions
   
110.058   Display of license
   
110.059   General prohibitions
   
110.060   License
   
110.061   Investigation; issuance; appeals
   
110.062   License; fees
   
110.063   Fixed location transient merchants
   
110.064   Duplicate and individual licenses
   
110.065   Revocation of license; procedure
   
110.066   Carnivals and street shows
Express Building Permit and Business License
   
110.080   Express building permit; business license
   
110.081   Permit and License; fees
Precious Metals Dealers
   
110.095   Definitions
   
110.096   Place of operation
   
110.097   Daily report to police; positive identification of sellers;
photographs of jewelry purchases; retention of records
   
110.098   Purchases from minors
   
110.099   Goods to be held
   
110.100   Purchases of coins
   
110.101   Exemptions
Gambling Establishments
   
110.115   Simulated gambling devices restricted
Local Hospitality Fee
   
110.130   Hospitality fee on charges for prepared food and beverages
Local Accommodations Tax
   
110.135   Local accommodations tax
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession, or activity engaged in with the object of gain,
benefit, or advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of the City of
Goose Creek, South Carolina, is required to pay an annual license tax for the
privilege of doing business and obtain a business license as herein provided.
(Ord 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meaning ascribed herein.
   BUSINESS. Any business, calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged
in with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)
(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose that does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer, officer,
director, trustee, or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. That division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Goose Creek.
   DOMICILE. A principal place from which the trade or business of a licensee
is conducted, directed, or managed. For purposes of this subchapter, a licensee
may be deemed to have more than one DOMICILE.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued, for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a domicile within
the municipality, business done within the municipality shall include all gross
receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If the licensee does
not have a domicile within the municipality, business done within the
municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received or accrued
within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a business license
tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee's GROSS INCOME for the
purpose of computing the tax within the municipality must be reduced by the
amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or municipality and
fully reported to the municipality. GROSS INCOME for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds, or funds that are the property of a third party. The value of bartered
goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in GROSS INCOME. The gross
receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by
inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the
South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina Department of
Insurance, or other government agencies. In calculating GROSS INCOME for
certain businesses, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   GROSS INCOME for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered GROSS INCOME.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code Ann. § 38-7-20, GROSS
INCOME for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   GROSS INCOME for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of (i) gross
revenues or receipts received or accrued from business done at the location;
(ii) the amount of income allocated and apportioned to that location by the
business for purposes of the business's state income tax return; or (iii) the
amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost center of the
business. Licensees reporting GROSS INCOME under this provision shall have the
burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by satisfactory
records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting a
manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this subchapter.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary LICENSE OFFICIAL, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate LICENSE OFFICIALS to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under Article 20,
Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38, of the South Carolina
Code.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Goose Creek, South Carolina.
   NAICS. The North American Industry Classification System for the United
States published under the auspices of the Federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company, cooperative non-profit membership, corporation,
joint venture, association, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate,
holding company, or other group or combination acting as a unit, in the
singular or plural, and the agent or employee having charge or control of a
business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.003 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this subchapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege
tax. Except as set forth below for business licenses issued to contractors with
respect to specific construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued
for the 12-month period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for a
construction contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to expire
at the completion of the construction project; provided, any such business
license may require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount. The provisions of
this subchapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from year to year
as amended by the Council.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.004 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX; REFUND.
   (A)   The required business license tax shall be paid for each business
subject hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
due date of the 30th day of April in each year, except for those businesses in
Rate Class 8 for which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall
be subject to penalties as set forth in §
110.012, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1 without
penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee's gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee's 12-month fiscal year preceding the due date, or on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one year. The business license tax for a new business must be
computed on the estimated probable gross income for the balance of the license
year. A business license related to construction contract projects may be
issued on a per-project basis, at the option of the taxpayer. No refund shall
be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before the June 1 immediately following the April
30 on which the payment was due and must be supported by adequate documentation
supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or deny the
refund request, and if approved shall issue the refund to the business, within
30 days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.005 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent, or legal representative of every business subject to
this subchapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall
register the business and make application for a business license on or before
the due date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the
annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of
the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol, beer, or
wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of the
business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this subchapter by the License Official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property, and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation, and
payment of business license taxes through the business license tax portal
hosted and managed by the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office,
subject to the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal
availability or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from
existing business license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.006 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS, AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The License Official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this subchapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this subchapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if (1) any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization as
defined in this subchapter, or (2) any net proceeds of operation, after
necessary expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable
purpose as defined in this subchapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any
form beyond fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director,
trustee, or person with ultimate control of the organization shall not be
deemed a necessary expense of operation.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.007 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
subchapter to make a false application for a business license or to give or
file, or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to
the license or tax required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.008 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the license official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his or her person or in a vehicle used in the
business readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the
municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the License Official within
ten days after removal of the business to a new location and the license will
be valid at the new address upon written notification by the License Official
and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the approval
of the License Official for a change of address shall invalidate the license
and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a license. A
business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of controlling
interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and the
establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on old
business income.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.009 ADMINISTRATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The License Official shall administer the provisions of this subchapter,
collect business license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations
and audits to ensure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the municipal attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this subchapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.010 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter, the
License Official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this subchapter to make
inspections and to examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful
for any such person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
business license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided
herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of business license tax
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The License Official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
Financial information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed
public records, and the License Official shall not release the amount of
business license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name
without written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this
subchapter, state or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled
by classifications are public records.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.011 ASSESSMENTS; PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST; APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest, and appeals of assessment shall
be allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code Ann. § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing an assessment, the license
official may examine such records of the business or any other available
records as may be appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical
surveys as the license official may deem appropriate to assess a business
license tax and penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The license official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code Ann. § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for
adjustment of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided
that for particular types of business licenses, including without limitation
for business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes
under Article 20, Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38, of the
South Carolina Code, the municipality, by separate ordinance, may establish a
different procedure and may delegate one or more rights, duties, and functions
hereunder to the Municipal Association of South Carolina.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.012 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES; PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct business license
tax, the License Official shall impose and collect a late penalty of 5% of the
unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid.
Penalties shall not be waived. If any business license tax remains unpaid for
60 days after its due date, the License Official shall report it to the
Municipal Attorney for appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the License Official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.013 NOTICES.
   The License Official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.014 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The License Official may deny a license to an applicant when the
License Official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation,
false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has been convicted within the previous ten years of an offense
under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving dishonest
conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a business, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
      (6)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
      (7)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied,
suspended, or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the License Official shall be subject to appeal as
herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.015 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the License Official determines:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud,
misrepresentation, a false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression
of a material fact in the license application;
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any
tax or fee, the License Official may give written notice to the licensee or the
person in control of the business within the municipality by personal service
or mail that the license is suspended pending a single hearing before Council
or its designee for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should be
upheld and the license should be revoked.
   (B)   The written notice of suspension and proposed revocation shall state
the time and place at which the hearing is to be held, and shall contain a
brief statement of the reasons for the suspension and proposed revocation and a
copy of the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.016 APPEALS TO COUNCIL OR ITS DESIGNEE.
   (A)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
110.011, which are governed by S.C. Code Ann. § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved
by a determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the license official may appeal the decision to the Council or its
designee by written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the
license official within ten days after service by mail or personal service of
the notice of determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation.
   (B)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial or other determination of
the License Official and a hearing on a suspension and proposed revocation
shall be held by the Council or its designee within ten business days after
receipt of a request for appeal or service of a notice of suspension and
proposed revocation. The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular
or special meeting of the Council, or, if by designee of the Council, at a
hearing to be scheduled by the designee. The hearing may be continued to
another date by agreement of all parties. At the hearing, all parties shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to present testimony and evidence,
and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings shall be recorded and
transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting. The rules of evidence
anti procedure prescribed by Council or its designee shall govern the hearing.
Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members present, or
the designee of Council if the hearing is held by the designee, shall render a
written decision based on findings of fact and conclusions on application of
the standards herein. The written decision shall be served, by personal service
or by mail, upon all parties or their representatives and shall constitute the
final decision of the municipality.
   (C)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council or its designee does not
effectuate a stay of that decision. The decision of the Council or its designee
shall be binding and enforceable unless overturned by an applicable appellate
court after a due and timely appeal.
   (D)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under Article 20, Chapter 9, Title 58, and Chapters 7 and 45, Title 38,
of the South Carolina Code, the municipality may establish a different
procedure by ordinance.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.017 CONSENT, FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain,
or operate in, on, above, or under any street or public place under control of
the municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure, or facility for
utilities, communications, cablevision, or other purposes without a consent
agreement or franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that
prescribes the term, fees, and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.018 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this subchapter. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.019 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty
of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs provided for
in this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.020 SEVERABILITY.
   A determination that any portion of this subchapter is invalid or
unenforceable shall not affect the remaining portions. To the extent of any
conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of the
South Carolina Business License Tax Standardization Act, as codified at S.C.
Code Ann. § 6-1-400 et seq., the standardization act shall control.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 110.021 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
subchapter shall be computed in accordance with the current Business License
Rate Schedule (Appendix A as attached to Ordinance 2023-028), which may be
amended from time to time by the Council.
   (B)   The current Business License Class Schedule is attached to Ordinance
2023-028 as Appendix B. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd year,
the municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized business
license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of South
Carolina and adopted by the Director of the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal
Affairs Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised Business License
Class Schedule shall then be appended to this subchapter as a replacement
Appendix B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, sub-sector, group, or industry. The Business License Class
Schedule (Appendix B) is a tool for classification and not a limitation on
businesses subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most
recent version of the Business License Class Schedule adopted by the Council
that most specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the
business. The License Official shall have the authority to make the
determination of the classification most specifically applicable to a subject
business.
   (D)   A copy of the Class Schedule and Rate Schedule shall be filed in the
office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 20-014, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-028, passed 11-9-2021; Ord. 2023-028,
passed 11-14- 2023)
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR
§ 110.035 LICENSE REQUIRED.
    It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of a mobile food vendor within the City of Goose Creek, without first
obtaining a license therefor, as provided in this chapter, unless specifically
exempted therefrom by the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person or persons who operates or sells unprepared
or prepared food and/or beverages including alcoholic beverages from a
stationary cart, food truck or trailer mounted on a chassis. Mobile food
vendors shall not mean selling from a stand, booth. A mobile food truck may
mean a privately-owned automobile if the meal is prepared and cooked in a
commercial kitchen with an "A" from the Department of Health and Environmental
Control.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.037 DURATION OF LICENSE; TRANSFER.
    Each license shall be issued for one calendar year beginning May 1 and
shall expire on April 30. A change of the business address must be reported to
the Finance Director ten days prior for approval for the license to be valid at
the new address. Failure to obtain the approval of the Finance Director of the
change of address shall invalidate the license and subject the licensee to
prosecution for doing business without a license.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.038 PERMITTED FOOD; BEVERAGES.
   Permitted food and beverages shall be limited to edibles, hot and cold
beverages containing no alcohol, unless a special license has been obtained
from the South Carolina Department of Revenue and is on file with the City of
Goose Creek Business License Office and other items related to such edibles.
Sale of tobacco products and smoking paraphernalia is prohibited. No sale items
may be displayed outside the mobile vending unit. Edibles with alcohol which
are not regulated by the South Carolina Department of Revenue alcoholic
beverage licensing including alcohol suspended in frozen form, gelatin, fruit,
or other food product are prohibited to be sold by mobile food vendors unless
the alcohol is cooked so as to cause the evaporation of burning off of all of
the alcohol.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017 ; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023 )
§ 110.039 LICENSE; FEES.
   The license fee for each class of business shall be computed in accordance
with the rate schedules established and approved by City Council and is on file
in the offices of the Finance Director and City Clerk.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017 ; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023 )
§ 110.040 HOURS OF OPERATION; LOCATION.
    Operating hours shall be no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later than 9:00
p.m., unless a special events permit has been issued. Mobile food vendor is
limited to those zoning classifications that permit food service, unless a
special event permit has been issued. When selling from a privately-owned
automobile as described in §
110.036 an invitation must be extended from the property owner in writing
detailing the hours needed and specific location permitted.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.041 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permission from property owner/representative. Permission to operate
must be obtained in writing from the property owner/representative unless a
special events permit has been issued, or is located on the naval weapons
station.
   (B)   Parking. Required parking for the primary business(es) shall be
minimally affected.
   (C)   Garbage disposal. The mobile food vendor shall only use single-service
plates and utensils. Garbage and/or recycling receptacles must be made
available for patron use and removed from the site daily by the mobile food
vendor. Failure to remove trash/garbage/recyclables or to keep area of vending
unit clean may result in the immediate revocation of the mobile food vendor
business license.
   (D)   DHEC requirements. Mobile food vendor must meet all applicable DHEC
regulations for mobile food units and possess a valid DHEC permit where
applicable.
   (E)   Routine inspections. Any mobile food vendor or vending unit that has
been issued a notice of health violation by any Department of the State of
South Carolina, which remains uncorrected upon a subsequent inspection, shall
have its mobile food vendor business license revoked.
   (F)   Site plan. Site plan must be submitted indicating the location of
vending unit.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.042 SIGNAGE.
   Signage shall be permitted on the vehicle only to identify the name of the
product or the name of the vendor, and the posting of prices. A separate menu
board is allowed not exceeding 12 square feet in area and 40 inches in height.
This sign must be located on the same property and within close proximity to
the mobile food vendor, and must not be placed on the sidewalk or in the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.043 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No vendor shall:
   (A)   Leave any vehicle unattended or overnight.
   (B)   Store, park or leave any vehicle overnight on any street or sidewalk.
   (C)   Leave from any location without first picking up, removing and
disposing of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by the vendor, and/
or any items relating to the operation.
   (D)   Solicit or conduct business with persons in motor vehicles.
   (E)   Mobile food vendors are not permitted outside the parking area of
designated location.
   (F)   There will be no external lighting permitted.
   (G)   Sell anything other than that for which a license to vend has been
issued.
   (H)   Sound or permit the sounding of any device that produces a loud and
raucous noise or use or operate any loudspeaker, public address system, radio,
sound amplifier or similar device to attract the attention of the public.
   (I)   Allow any item relating to the operation of the vending business to
lean against or hang from any building or other structure lawfully placed on
public or private property.
   (J)   Discharge fat, oil, grease or waste water into the sanitary sewer
system. All waste shall be properly stored and disposed of at a properly
designated disposal location.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.044 HOSPITALITY TAX.
   All mobile food vendors shall collect from any patron a 2% hospitality tax
on all prepared food and beverages and will remit collected hospitality tax to
the Finance Director no later than the twentieth day of the following month in
which collected.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.045 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter; vendors with a
store front within the municipal limits of Goose Creek and possess an annual
city business license.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
§ 110.055 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of a hawker, peddler or itinerant merchant or vendor of any articles,
goods, wares of merchandise or services within the City of Goose Creek, without
first obtaining a license therefor, as provided in this chapter, unless
specifically exempted therefrom by the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017 ; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023 ) Penalty, see
§
110.999
§ 110.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER or HAWKER. Any person who sells, or offers to sell, commodities of
any type from house to house, or from place to place, or on the streets, or in
any other public place, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells,
or offers to sell, commodities of any type from a wagon, vehicle, boat or other
movable structure.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT or VENDOR. Any person intending to remain in business in
the city for less than one year and is operating without a permanent place of
business or from a temporary or roadside site, and does not have an annual
business license, who:
      (1)   Offers for sale tangible personal property or personal services; or
      (2)   Takes or attempts to take orders for the sale of tangible personal
property, advertising, subscriptions or services to be furnished or performed
in the future.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017 ; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023 )
§ 110.057 EXCEPTIONS.
    Persons engaged in the following described activities are exempt from the
duty of applying for a transient merchant license, however might be subject to
business license requirements as defined in §§
110.001 to
110.021:
   (A)   Persons selling at wholesale to merchants for the purpose of resale ,
see §
110.006(C); ;
   (B)   Persons selling or distributing newspapers;
    (C)   Persons selling at events for which a blanket business license has
been obtained;
    (D)   Persons selling tangible property at a garage, basement or yard sale
held at the person's residence but not more than two sales within any 12-month
period;
    (E)   Persons conducting and selling admissions to or for theatricals,
shows, rides, sports and games, concerts, or any other public amusements where
no sales or other products are involved, and the sales are made on the premises
where the event is to be conducted;
    (F)   Bona fide nonprofit organizations, see §
110.006; and;
    (G)   Persons selling merchandise or services through an event sponsored by
the United States Government, State Government or any governmental subdivision.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.058 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
    Each transient merchant shall at all times while doing business in the city
keep in the possession of the person, the license required by this chapter and
shall prominently display the license so as to be visible to customers and city
officials as evidence of compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.059 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No peddler shall:
   (A)   Enter upon a subdivision or private property where the property has
clearly posted a visible sign indicating a prohibition against peddling,
soliciting, and/or canvassing.
   (B)   Refuse to leave a subdivision or private property after having been
notified by the owner or occupant thereof, or his agent, to leave the premises
and not return.
   (C)   Engage in the business of peddling within the city between the hours
of one-half hour before sunset and 9:00 a.m. the following morning, or at any
time on Sundays, except by specific appointment or invitation from the
prospective customer.
(Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.060 LICENSE.
    (A)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this chapter by the license official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (B)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all assessments,
personal property taxes on business property, and other monies due and payable
to the municipality have been paid.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.061 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE; APPEALS.
   (A)   Application of license. Upon receipt of an application for a license
under the provisions of this chapter, the Finance Director shall refer the
application to the Police Department, the Planning and Zoning Department and
other agencies or departments of the city deemed appropriate for review,
investigation and recommendation, in order to determine whether the activities
proposed to be undertaken would be contrary to any law or whether the issuance
of the license would otherwise be contrary to the public health, safety or
welfare. No license shall be issued until the Finance Director has received
reports and recommendations from all departments and agencies to which the
application has been referred.
   (B)   Issuance of license; appeals from denials or revocations.
       (1)   Upon receipt of reports and recommendations as herein provided,
the application, together with all supporting information, shall be forwarded
to the Finance Director, who shall determine whether to issue the license for
which the application has been made. If an application is denied, the Finance
Director shall set forth his or her reasons in writing and a copy of the
decision shall be provided to the applicant.
      (2)   See §
110.016(B) and (C) appeals to City Administrator and City Council.
   (C)   Approved application. An approved application, subject to the
provisions codified in this chapter, may be issued by the Finance Director
within a reasonable time. A fee will be charged as determined by §
110.062 allowing for the processing of the application.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.062 LICENSE; FEES.
   The license fee for each class of business shall be computed in accordance
with the rate schedules established and approved by City Council and on file in
the offices of the Finance Director and City Clerk.
   (A)   Before a license shall be issued, the applicant shall pay all
associated taxes and fees.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.063 FIXED LOCATION TRANSIENT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   No transient merchant shall engage in business at a fixed location
without the written permission, by lease or otherwise, of the owner or person
in control of the property.
   (B)   A property use agreement supplied by the Finance Director must be
signed by all parties, it shall include the dates the transient merchant shall
be conducting business and must be submitted with initial application.
   (C)   This agreement shall be displayed by the transient merchant at the
fixed location when he or she is doing business there.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)  Penalty, see
§
110.999
§ 110.064 DUPLICATE AND INDIVIDUAL LICENSES.
   (A)   When required, a transient merchant license may be issued to a person
carrying on the business of transient merchant in the city through employees.
   (B)   The employees shall carry a duplicate license issued to the person,
which shall be obtained from the Finance Director's office.
   (C)   If the business of transient merchant in the city is carried on
through agents who are not employees or by consignees, or by an unincorporated
firm or association, each person so conducting the business of transient
merchant in the city shall be required to have a separate license.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.065 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Finance Director may revoke any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter by sending a notice of revocation by certified mail
to the license holder at his or her last known address, return receipt
requested or by personal service on the license holder or its officers for any
of the following causes:
      (1)   Information showing that the license was erroneously issued
initially;
      (2)   For any violation of the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   For any violation of any city or state law regulating the sales
activities of the license holder.
   (B)   The license shall stand revoked unless within ten days after receipt
of the notice of revocation from the Finance Director, the license applicant or
holder files a written appeal pursuant to §
110.061(B)(2).
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 110.066 CARNIVALS AND STREET SHOWS.
   (A)   All carnivals or street shows by whatever name known are hereby
forbidden to show, parade or otherwise engage in business in the city, unless a
special licensing permit is obtained from the City Council.
   (B)   No carnival show or riding devices exhibiting in the open or under a
tent shall be issued a license or be permitted to operate within the city when
any agricultural fair is being held in the county, nor during a period of ten
days prior to the opening of the fair, unless the carnival show or riding
devices are exhibited under the auspices of, or with the consent of, the
parties conducting the agricultural fair.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 2023-003, passed 1-10-2023) Penalty, see §
110.999 
EXPRESS BUILDING PERMIT AND BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 110.080 EXPRESS BUILDING PERMIT; BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   When building a new residential home, the builder must obtain an
express building permit and express business license. The express building
permit and business license will cover all contractors except: electrical,
plumbing, and heating and air conditioning contractors, these trades would be
required to obtain individual permits and business licenses. This requirement
would apply to the homeowner if they are acting as the builder.
   (B)   All contractors and subcontractors must comply with Federal, state and
locals laws regarding license and registration requirements.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 110.081 PERMIT AND LICENSE; FEES.
   The permit fee and license fee for each class of business shall be computed
in accordance with the rate schedules established and approved by City Council
and on file in the offices of the Finance Director and City Clerk.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
PRECIOUS METALS DEALERS
§ 110.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEALER. Any person who holds the person's self out to the public as a
purchaser of precious metals, or who in the course of operation of a licensed
business, engages in the purchase of silver, gold or other precious metals.
   PRECIOUS METAL. Any article made, in whole or in part, of gold, silver or
platinum, which article has been used or sold by a retailer. The term PRECIOUS
METAL shall not include any coin or any gold or silver ingot or bar.
   WHOLESALE PRECIOUS METALS. Articles made, in whole or in part, of silver,
gold or platinum that have not been previously used, traded or sold by a
retailer and that are being purchased by a dealer from a manufacturer or from a
wholesaler or distributor of newly manufactured metals.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 110.096 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No dealer shall operate in the city except from a permanent shop or place of
business. No dealer shall operate upon public property or from a vehicle, flea
market, hotel room or similar temporary location.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.097 DAILY REPORT TO POLICE; POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION OF SELLERS;
PHOTOGRAPHS OF JEWELRY PURCHASES; RETENTION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Every dealer shall electronically submit daily purchases to the
Police Department within 24 hours from the time of purchase, giving the name
and address of the seller, the price paid for each item, the date of purchase,
a detailed and accurate description of each article purchased, the manufacturer
(where known), any identifying marks, serial number, model number, and owner
applied number and the seller's driver's license number, or the number on any
other governmental identification card bearing the photograph of the seller;
and, every dealer shall photograph all jewelry purchased.
      (2)   The dealer shall obtain the right thumb print of all sellers when
the property involves firearms, jewelry and electronics. If the seller is
missing the right thumb, the dealer shall print the next digit available to be
printed. This print will be placed on the law enforcement copy of the dealer's
paperwork.
   (B)   The dealer shall retain purchase/sales records for a minimum of three
years.
   (C)   The dealer shall maintain an accurate record of the disposition of all
items purchased by the dealer.
   (D)   Any records required to be kept or maintained by this section shall at
all times be open to the inspection of the Chief of Police or an officer duly
authorized by the Chief to inspect same.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 110.098 PURCHASES FROM MINORS.
   No dealer shall purchase gold or silver from a person less than 18 years of
age.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.099 GOODS TO BE HELD.
   All precious metals purchased by a dealer must be held in the county in the
possession of the dealer, before being sold, melted or altered in any manner,
for a period of seven working days. The location of these goods and the
identification of the person in possession of these goods must be filed with
the Chief of Police within 24 hours from the time of the purchase, if the goods
are held or stored at a location other than the point of sale. All goods
required to be held under this section shall at all times be open to the
inspection of the Chief of Police or an official duly authorized by the Chief
to inspect the same.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 110.100 PURCHASES OF COINS.
   Any purchaser of coin made up, in whole or in part of gold or silver, where
the total price exceeds the sum of $50, shall comply with §
110.097(A), (B) and (D).
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 110.101 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to purchases of wholesale
precious metals, nor shall it apply to a transaction between dealers of
precious metals, where the selling dealer has already complied with the terms
of this chapter, including the seven-day holding period.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 110.115 SIMULATED GAMBLING DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The use of all simulated gambling devices for commercial purposes is
hereunder prohibited throughout the city.
   (B)   SIMULATED GAMBLING DEVICE. Any device that plays any game of chance
which may deliver or entitle the person or persons playing or operating the
device to a payoff. This shall not include any machines, devices or materials
including any scratch cards associated with the state lottery. The following
rules of construction apply to this definition of SIMULATED GAMBLING DEVICE:
      (1)   The term DEVICE means any mechanical or electrical contrivance,
computer, terminal, video or other equipment that may or may not be capable of
downloading games from a central server system, machine, computer or other
device or equipment. The term DEVICE also includes any associated equipment
necessary to conduct the operation of the device;
      (2)   The terms PLAY OR OPERATE or PLAY OR OPERATION include the
application of the element of chance or displays the results of a raffle,
sweepstakes or drawing;
      (3)   The term GAME includes slot machine, poker, bingo, craps, keno, any
other type of game ordinarily played in a casino, or a game involving the
display of the results of a raffle, sweepstakes, drawing, contest or other
promotion, lotto, sweepstakes, or any other game associated with gambling or
which could be associated with gambling; and
      (4)   The term PAYOFF means cash, monetary or other credit, tickets,
tokens or other electronic credits which may be exchanged for cash, merchandise
or anything of value whatsoever, whether made automatically from the machine or
manually. A chance to win another free play on the same machine shall not be
considered a thing of value for the purposes of this division, as when a
pinball machine might award a free play, but any purchase or refund of credits
for cash, merchandise or anything of value shall be regarded as a PAYOFF.
   (C)   If there is a determination that the above prohibition is invalid,
then as a matter of zoning, use of simulated gambling devices shall be limited
to areas zoned light industrial as shall be specified in Appendix B: Table of
Land Uses of the zoning ordinance; there shall be allowed no more than four
simulated gambling devices per parcel as determined by a tax map identification
system; and the premises shall not allow for the storage, sale or consumption
of alcoholic beverages on the premises.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017) Penalty, see §
110.999
Cross-reference:
   Gambling; generally, see §
133.07
LOCAL HOSPITALITY FEE
§ 110.130 HOSPITALITY FEE ON CHARGES FOR PREPARED FOOD AND BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Goose Creek, South Carolina.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any business, private club, or non-profit institution
other than a private club which has a fixed place of operations or uses a
mobile device on a regular basis, within the city and which from that location
or device sells prepared meals and/or beverages inclusive of alcoholic
beverages, beer and wine, whether for on premises consumption, take out or
delivery. As used in this definition, NON-PROFIT INSTITUTION shall include any
medical, educational or social service facility which makes the service of
prepared meals and beverages available for sale to the public at large on a
regular basis.
      FINANCE DIRECTOR. A person designated to administer this subchapter.
      PREPARED MEAL. Any food and/or beverages, inclusive of alcoholic
beverages, beer and wine, prepared or modified by an establishment which at the
time of sale is ready for consumption by members of the public, regardless of
the actual quantity, presentation, or packaging, without regard to the time of
day of the sale.
   (B)   Imposition of fee.
      (1)   A local hospitality fee equal to 2% is imposed on sales of prepared
meals and beverages, inclusive of alcoholic beverages, beer and wine sold in
establishments.
      (2)   The fee imposed by this section shall be collected from any patron
when he/she tenders payment for his/her meal, food or beverage and shall be
held in trust for the benefit of the city until the same is remitted to the
Finance Director.
   (C)   Remittance to city; due date.
      (1)   The fee provided for in this subchapter must be remitted by the
establishment to the Finance Director, along with the form as provided by the
city from time to time for such purpose, by the twentieth day of the month
following the closing date of the period for which the fee payment is to be
remitted. The fee must be remitted on a monthly basis when the estimated amount
of average fee is more than $50 a month, on a quarterly basis when the
estimated amount of average fee is $25 to $50 per month, and on an annual basis
when the estimated amount of average fee is less than $25 a month. The closing
date for monthly payments is the last day of the month; the closing dates for
quarterly payments are the last days of the months of March, June, September
and December, and the closing date for annual payments is the last day of
December.
      (2)   A payment is considered to be timely remitted to the city if the
return has a United States Post Office postmark date on or before the date the
report form is required to be made. If the twentieth day of the month falls on
a Saturday, Sunday or postal service holiday, then payments mailed on the next
business day will be accepted as timely filed.
   (D)   Late fee. A late fee of 5% of the unpaid amount for each month or
portion thereof shall be added to any tax not timely remitted under this
subchapter. The purpose of the fee is to compensate the city for additional
administrative handling and lost earnings on operating balances.
   (E)   Collection of delinquent fees. It shall be unlawful to fail to pay the
fees required by this subchapter. If any tax due under this subchapter shall
remain unpaid 30 days after its due date, the city may proceed with all
available procedures under the law, including, but not limited to, issuance of
ordinance summons or enforcement through the Municipal Court or the revocation
of the establishment's business license.
   (F)   City's receipt and use of fee proceeds.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the fee remitted under this subchapter, the city
shall deposit the funds into a local hospitality fee fund, maintained
separately by accounting procedures from the general fund, in accordance with
S.C. Code § 6-1-720, as amended.
      (2)   The city's use of the hospitality fee fund shall be for purposes as
authorized by S.C. Code § 6-1-730, as amended.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
LOCAL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX
§ 110.135 LOCAL ACCOMMODATIONS TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a local accommodations tax of 1% on the gross
proceeds derived from rental or charges for accommodations furnished to
transients for consideration, as described in § 12-36-920(A) of the 1976 Code,
by any person within the City of Goose Creek (hereinafter "vendor").
   (B)   Payment of the accommodations tax established herein shall be remitted
by the vendor to the City of Goose Creek on a monthly basis, along with such
return or form as may be established by the city for such purposes, not later
than the twentieth day of the month and shall cover the tax due for the
previous month. Any tax not timely remitted shall be subject to a penalty of 5%
of the sum owed for each month or portion thereof until paid.
   (C)   The failure of any vendor subject to this section to remit to the city
the tax imposed by the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for up
to 30 days, or both.
   (D)   There is hereby established a special account to be known as the Local
Accommodations Tax Account into which the taxes remitted shall be deposited by
the city and used solely for the purposes provided by law.
   (E)   This section is subject to the constitution and laws of the State of
South Carolina. If any section, phrase, sentence or portion of this section is
for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof.
(Ord. 20-026, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to punishment under §
10.99 upon conviction. Each day of the violation shall be considered a separate
offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of liability
for delinquent fees, penalties and costs provided herein.
(Ord. 17-015, passed 6-13-2017)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court
   
111.03   What constitutes prior offenses
   
111.04   Unlawful to sell unless tax paid
   
111.05   Sunday and Monday morning sales; prohibited
   
111.06   Contraband
   
111.07   Wholesale delivery on Sunday
   
111.08   Restricting the hours of operation of commercial establishments which
allow for the on premises consumption of alcoholic beverages
Drinking Specifically
   
111.25   Drinking or possession on licensed premises at prohibited hours
   
111.26   Drinking in public places generally; open containers
   
111.27   Drinking on school or recreational property
   
111.28   Drinking alcoholic beverages on unlicensed premises
   
111.29   Alcoholic beverages on premises of unlicensed person constitutes
contraband
Alcoholic Beverages to Minors
   
111.45   Sale to minors
   
111.46   Purchase or possession by minor
   
111.47   False information as to age
   
111.48   Purchasing on behalf of another who cannot lawfully purchase
License and Permits
   
111.65   Acts prohibited on licensed premises; revocation of license
   
111.66   Sale of alcoholic beverages after license revoked, canceled or
suspended
   
111.67   Permittee selling draft beer to be approved by state
   
111.68   Permit and health certificates to be posted
   
111.69   Hindering inspection
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS, as used in this chapter, shall mean any
spirituous malt, vinous, fermented, brewed or other liquors or any compound or
mixture thereof by whatever name called or known which contains alcohol and
used as a beverage, regardless of the weight of alcohol contained by weight or
volume.
(1985 Code, § 3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-20
§ 111.02 JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   The Municipal Courts shall try and determine all cases involving any
violation of S.C. Code Title 61, except § 61-6-4720, occurring within the
limits of the city where the penalties do not exceed a fine of $500 plus
assessments required by the State of South Carolina or imprisonment of 30 days.
   (B)   The courts and judge shall have and are hereby vested with
jurisdiction over the criminal cases, with the right and duty of sending the
cases, occurring within the municipal limits, but beyond their jurisdiction to
try, to the higher courts.
(1985 Code, § 3-2)
Statutory references:
   Jurisdiction of Municipal Courts and Judges, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4500
   Penalties, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4230
§ 111.03 WHAT CONSTITUTES PRIOR OFFENSES.
   A conviction, plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere or forfeiture of bond
for the violation on or after March 28, 1956, of any of the laws of the state,
or of the United States, relating to alcoholic liquor shall constitute prior
offense for the purpose of any prosecution, or for the purpose of imposition of
sentence for any subsequent violation of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 3-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4220
§ 111.04 UNLAWFUL TO SELL UNLESS TAX PAID.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or permit to be sold, any beer,
ale, porter, wine, malt or other beverage authorized to be sold under state
statutes regulating same, on which the tax is levied but not paid.
(1985 Code, § 3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-190
§ 111.05 SUNDAY AND MONDAY MORNING SALES; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter or give
away any wine or beer in the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight Saturday
and sunrise Monday morning; provided, however, any establishment licensed
pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 61-6-100 et seq., as amended shall be authorized to
sell the products during those hours in which the sale of alcoholic beverages
in containers of two ounces or less is lawful.
(1985 Code, § 3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4160
§ 111.06 CONTRABAND.
   (A)   Any place of business violating §§
111.04 or
111.05 shall have all beer and wine found upon the premises declared
contraband, and it shall be seized as contraband liquor; provided, that the
person owning or claiming the beer/wine may retain possession by delivering a
cash bond in an amount equal to the cost price charged for a like quantity by a
licensed wholesaler.
   (B)   The officer who shall receive the bond shall deliver a written receipt
to the person posting the bond.
   (C)   The cash bond shall be deposited in the Treasury of the city.
(1985 Code, § 3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 61-6-4300 et seq.
§ 111.07 WHOLESALE DELIVERY ON SUNDAY.
   No person shall deliver wine or beer in wholesale lots or quantities within
the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight Saturday and 12:00 midnight
Sunday.
(1985 Code, § 3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 RESTRICTING THE HOURS OF OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS WHICH
ALLOW FOR THE ON PREMISES CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., on the premises of any private
or non-profit club, bar, any store, beer parlor, or other place or entity of
business or commercial establishment authorized by law to sell beer, ale,
porter, wine, and/or alcoholic liquor for the on premises consumption thereof,
it shall be unlawful for:
   (A)   An owner, employee, or person in charge thereof to sell for
consumption on premises, offer for sale, give away, barter, exchange, or in any
manner dispense or permit the consumption of any beer, ale, porter, wine, as
defined in S.C. Code § 61-4-10, as amended, and/or alcoholic liquor on
premises; or
   (B)   Any person to operate, or to allow to be open any such private or non-
profit club, bar store, beer parlor or other such place or entity of business
or commercial establishment authorized by law to sell beer, ale, porter, wine,
and/or liquor for on premises consumption.
(1985 Code, § 3-8) (Ord. 11-001, passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRINKING SPECIFICALLY
§ 111.25 DRINKING OR POSSESSION ON LICENSED PREMISES AT PROHIBITED HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess in an open
container any quantity of beer, wine or alcoholic beverage in any alcoholic
beverage place of business, or upon the premises of any place of business
between the hours stated in this chapter. At no time will any establishment
licensed to sell beer, wine or alcoholic beverages, sell, give away, consume or
allow the consumption of the beer, wine or alcoholic liquors behind locked
doors.
(1985 Code, § 3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-1610
§ 111.26 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES GENERALLY; OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any kind of alcoholic
liquor or other intoxicating beverage on the streets, highways, in any vehicle
or in any other public place in the city.
   (B)   Possession of any open container, whether empty, partially full or
full, within the person's possession or control, shall constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
(1985 Code, § 3-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.27 DRINKING ON SCHOOL OR RECREATIONAL PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any beer, liquor, wine or other
intoxicating beverages on any public school property, or any recreational
property owned or operated by the city.
(1985 Code, § 3-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 DRINKING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON UNLICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person not licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages to permit the drinking of alcoholic beverages on the premises of any
place of business under the person's control which is open to the public.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic beverages in or
around any place of business open to the public which is not licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages.
(1985 Code, § 3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PREMISES OF UNLICENSED PERSON CONSTITUTES
CONTRABAND.
   If any alcoholic beverage is sold to anyone by a person who does not have a
valid license to make such a sale, all alcoholic beverages found on the
premises of the person, or the premises under the control of the person, is
hereby declared contraband and shall be seized by any municipal police officer,
without warrant, and handled as contraband liquor.
(1985 Code, § 3-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4310
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS
§ 111.45 SALE TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, ale, porter, wine or other
malt, fermented beverage or any alcoholic beverage to minors, as defined by
state law.
(1985 Code, § 3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4070
§ 111.46 PURCHASE OR POSSESSION BY MINOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by state law, to
purchase or knowingly have in his or her possession, any beer, ale, porter,
wine or any other similar malt or fermented beverage.
   (B)   Any possession shall not apply to any employee lawfully engaged in the
sale or delivery of any beverage in an unopened container.
(1985 Code, § 3-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4070
§ 111.47 FALSE INFORMATION AS TO AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom alcoholic beverages cannot be
lawfully sold to knowingly give false information concerning the person's age
for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic beverages. This section does not
relieve the seller of the legal requirement to determine the legal age of the
purchaser.
(1985 Code, § 3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4085
§ 111.48 PURCHASING ON BEHALF OF ANOTHER WHO CANNOT LAWFULLY PURCHASE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase beer or wine while on
licensed premises and to give the beer or wine to a person to whom beer or wine
cannot lawfully be sold, for consumption on/or off the premises.
(1985 Code, § 3-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-4075
LICENSE AND PERMITS
§ 111.65 ACTS PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No holder of a permit authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages or
any servant, agent or employee of the permittee shall knowingly do any of the
following acts upon the licensed premises covered by the holder's permit:
      (1)   Sell alcoholic beverages to a minor;
      (2)   Sell alcoholic beverages to any person while the person is in an
intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Permit gambling or games of chance;
      (4)   Permit any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or
practices;
      (5)   Permit any act, the commission of which tends to create a public
nuisance or which constitutes a crime under the ordinances of the city or the
laws of the state; or
      (6)   Sell, offer for sale or possess any beverage or alcoholic liquor
the sale or possession of which is prohibited on the licensed premises under
the laws of the state.
   (B)   A violation of any of the foregoing provisions shall be a ground for
the revocation or suspension of the holder's permit by the state.
(1985 Code, § 3-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-920
§ 111.66 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AFTER LICENSE REVOKED, CANCELED OR
SUSPENDED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any holder of a license to sell
alcoholic beverages at wholesale or retail, to sell or offer to sell alcoholic
beverages after the license shall have been revoked or canceled, or during the
period of a suspension of the license.
(1985ode, § 3-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-950
§ 111.67 PERMITTEE SELLING DRAFT BEER TO BE APPROVED BY STATE.
   No person holding a retail permit to sell beer, ale, porter and other
similar malt or fermented beverages, issued by the state, shall sell the
beverages on draft, on tap or from kegs or other containers on the premises
described in the permit, unless approved by the rules and regulations of the
State Department of Health and Environmental Control governing eating and
drinking establishments and other retail food establishments.
(1985 Code, § 3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-4-1750
§ 111.68 PERMIT AND HEALTH CERTIFICATES TO BE POSTED.
   Both the permit issued by the state and the certification of approval issued
by the State Department of Health and Environmental Control, shall be
conspicuously posted on the premises.
(1985 Code, § 3-21)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 61-6-1800
§ 111.69 HINDERING INSPECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, operator, employee or patron,
upon demand of any police officer, to refuse to allow full inspection of the
premises of any part thereof which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, or
refuse to allow full inspection of the stocks or invoices of the licensee, or
to hinder or in any way, delay or prevent the inspection.
(1985 Code, § 3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES PROGRAM
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Findings
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Authorization
   
112.05   Authorized incentives
   
112.06   Eligibility criteria
   
112.07   Administration and terms of delivery
   
112.08   Administration of incentives and incentive agreements
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This article shall be titled "Economic Development Incentive Program."
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 112.02 FINDINGS.
   Subject to the realization of certain benefits (as defined in §
112.03), the economic development incentive program is enacted by the Council
to meet its goals (as defined in §
112.03).
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this
Chapter 112, unless the context shall otherwise require, the following terms
shall have the following respective meanings:
   BENEFITS. The value to the city of providing the incentives, which generally
includes:
      (1)   Increased property values within the incentive area and the city as
a whole;
      (2)   Increased revenue from property taxes, business license fees and
permit fees;
      (3)   Increased tourism and commercial activity within the city as a
whole;
      (4)   The improvement of the character of the city by rehabilitating
existing buildings and promoting the construction of infill development; and
      (5)   The expansion and consolidation of the corporate limits of the city
and the resulting increase in the city’s tax base.
   DEVELOPMENT. The activity of improving a real property to the extent of
adding value to the tax base through real property improvements, and the
creation of employment opportunities.
   GOALS. The objectives of the city in offering the incentives, which are as
follows:
      (1)   To promote the redevelopment of existing buildings and infill
development within the incentive area;
      (2)   To support the establishment of the categories of new businesses
that the Council determines will significantly increase the overall commercial
activity within the city, provide the city's residents with restaurant and
retail options within the city rather than having to travel elsewhere;
encourage tourists and those who reside in surrounding communities to make use
of businesses within the city; and increase property values within the city as
a whole;
      (3)   To develop the incentive area into a "downtown" that provides the
city with a "sense of place"; and
      (4)   To encourage the annexation of property to consolidate and expand
the corporate limits of the city.
   INCENTIVE. A grant of any inducement having monetary value by the city that
is offered to a person, firm, or corporation to pursue a development that
encourages private investment and/or the creation/retention of jobs. The
incentive may also include grants from other entities that the city may be able
to obtain.
   INCENTIVE AREA. The particular area in which the Council has determined that
the revitalization and redevelopment thereof is essential to preserving and
improving the economy, society and culture of the city and enhancing the
quality of life of the citizens thereof. The incentive area shall include those
properties indicated on the map kept on file with the Clerk to City Council, to
include parts of St. James Avenue, US Highway 52, Red Bank Road, and some
adjacent streets. The incentive area may be amended by ordinance, including
ordinances approving annexations, from time to time, where incentives are
deemed necessary in order for the achievement of the goals.
   INCENTIVE RECIPIENT. The private parties receiving the incentives from the
city.
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 112.04 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Authorization to grant incentives. The Council, at its discretion, and
on a case-by-case basis, but subject to the general eligibility criteria
provided for in §
112.06 herein, may enter into an incentive agreement (as defined herein) with a
person, firm, or corporation providing for incentives in order to encourage and
support the development of real property within the incentive area, including
property to be incorporated into the incentive area subject to annexation.
   (B)   Incentive agreements. Incentives shall only be provided to an
incentive recipient after an incentive agreement has been entered into between
the city and such person, firm or corporation, which agreement shall set forth:
      (1)   The particulars of the development;
      (2)   The incentives to be provided; and
      (3)   Sufficient assurances that the benefits will accrue to the city and
the goals will be met by the development (an "incentive agreement""). Pending
the approval by the Council of any incentive agreement, and subject to the
provisions in §
112.07 herein, the City Administrator is authorized to discuss the provisions
of this economic development incentive program, aid in the completion of any
proposal (as defined herein) and, subject to the final approval by the Council,
negotiate with the potential incentive recipient on behalf of the city. Each
incentive agreement shall be approved by Council by ordinance. Council is
authorized to provide incentives in any amounts and for any period of time
within the thresholds provided for herein or within the time periods and
thresholds provided for in any applicable statutory authorization.
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 112.05 AUTHORIZED INCENTIVES.
   (A)   Multiple incentives. The Council may provide to an incentive recipient
any combination of incentives provided for herein; provided, however, that the
total amount of incentives given to a development must be in keeping with the
goals, and the value of the benefits accruing to the city (and its citizens)
must be greater than the financial value of the incentives to an incentive
recipient.
   (B)   Incentives of the city. All direct incentives of the city shall be
granted in the form of reimbursements and refunds of fees and taxes that have
been duly paid to the city. No up front abatements of fees or taxes shall be
permitted. Where incentives continue for a period of more than one year, such
incentives may be graduated to increase or decrease year-to-year as the Council
sees fit, but subject to monitoring by the city to ensure compliance with the
terms of any incentive agreement. The Council may, at its discretion, and on a
case-by-case basis, enter into an incentive agreement to reimburse or give a
refund to any person, firm or corporation the following fees and taxes up to
the amounts and percentages provided for herein:
      (1)   The incentives available for anticipated developments located
within the corporate boundaries of the city at the time application is made
(subject to the eligibility requirements of this economic development incentive
program) are as follows:
         (a)   A rebate of the applicable development impact fees collected by
the city in connection with a development at maximum percentages based upon the
following minimum investment thresholds:
 
Minimum investment Maximum rebate percentage
$250,000           25%
$500,000           50%
$750,000           75%
$1,000,000         100%
 
         (b)   A rebate of the applicable building permit fees collected by the
city in connection with a development at maximum percentages based upon the
following minimum investment thresholds:
 
Minimum investment Maximum rebate percentage
$250,000           25%
$500,000           50%
$750,000           75%
$1,000,000         100%
 
         (c)   A rebate of the applicable annual business license fees
collected by the city in connection with a development for a period of up to
five years at maximum percentages based upon the following minimum investment
thresholds:
 
Minimum investment Maximum rebate percentage
$250,000           20%
$500,000           30%
$750,000           40%
$1,000,000         50%
 
         (d)   A rebate of the applicable annual local hospitality taxes
collected by the city in connection with a development for the maximum period
set forth below based upon the following minimum investment thresholds, but
funds received through such incentive are to be spent only for purposes that
are related to tourism, pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-1-730, which purposes are
specified in the incentive agreement and approved by Council.
 
Minimum investment Maximum rebate duration
$100,000           1 year
$200,000           2 years
$300,000           3 years
$400,000           4 years
$500,000           5 years
 
         (e)   A rebate of the applicable annual local accommodations taxes
collected by the city in connection with a development for the maximum period
set forth below based upon the following minimum investment thresholds, but
funds received through such incentive are to be spent only for purposes that
are related to tourism, pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-1-530, which purposes are
specified in the incentive agreement and approved by Council.
 
Minimum investment Maximum rebate duration
$100,000           1 year
$200,000           2 years
$300,000           3 years
$400,000           4 years
$500,000           5 years
 
         (f)   Such other incentives that the Council, at its discretion on a
case-by-case basis, determines are appropriate given the amount or type of
investment made by the incentive recipient in the incentive area.
      (2)   The incentives available for anticipated developments with pending
petitions to annex into the corporate boundaries of the city (subject to the
eligibility requirements of this economic development program) shall be the
same as those available pursuant to division (B)(l) above, except with respect
to rebate of the applicable annual business license fees collected by the city
in connection with such a development for a period of up to five years at
maximum percentages based upon the following minimum investment thresholds:
 
Minimum investment Maximum rebate percentage
$250,000           25%
$500,000           50%
$750,000           75%
$1,000,000         100%
 
   (C)   State incentive programs. The state programs that may be considered by
Council to be included within any package of incentives or as a stand-alone set
of incentives for in-city projects located outside of the incentive area,
include the following:
      (1)   Property tax credits authorized by the provisions of the South
Carolina Abandoned Buildings Revitalization Act, codified at S.C. Code §§ 12-
67-100 et seq. (collectively, the "Abandoned Building Act"). Incentive
recipients requesting consideration of the Abandoned Building Act by the
Council shall submit an Abandoned Building Act application in a form to be
provided by the city.
      (2)   The South Carolina real property tax credit for the installation of
a fire sprinkler system, codified at S.C. Code § 12-6-3622.
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 112.06 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
   (A)   Incentive area eligibility criteria. Except for those incentives
discussed in §
112.05(C) above as authorized by the state and which are intended by the terms
of this economic development incentive program to be applied city-wide, in
order for a development to be eligible to receive incentives, the Council must
determine that the development meets, or upon completion will meet, each of the
following criteria:
      (1)   The development is consistent with the City of Goose Creek
comprehensive plan (as may be amended) and the City of Goose Creek economic
development strategic plan (as may be amended) (together, the "plans") as well
as the goals.
      (2)   Absent the provision of incentives, the development would be
unlikely to occur or unlikely to occur at the level or scale contemplated by
the developer.
      (3)   The development must:
         (a)   Be located within the incentive area, as defined in §
112.03; or
         (b)   Be subject to a pending petition to annex into the corporate
limits of the city.
      (4)   The development must comply with the applicable minimum threshold
investment amounts set forth in §
112.05(B) (as applicable based upon the particular incentive, the "minimum
investment").
         (a)   The minimum investment may be comprised of any combination of:
            1.   Real property acquisition costs;
            2.   The costs of physical improvements to real property; or
            3.   The costs of capital improvements to city infrastructure.
         (b)   The minimum investment may be calculated based upon investment
in a single property or the cumulative investment in multiple properties
comprising a single development, each within the incentive area. Where multiple
uses or businesses are to be located within a single development as separate
businesses, the Council may, at its discretion on a case-by-case basis,
allocate appropriate portions of the total investment in the development to
such separate business in order to allow such business to meet the minimum
investment eligibility requirement.
      (5)   The total value of all incentives received by an incentive
recipient shall not exceed the incentive recipient's actual investment in the
development consisting of those costs set forth at division (A)(4)(a) above.
      (6)   The intended use of the development must be for one or more of the
following business purposes:
         (a)   Retail uses;
         (b)   Tourism-related business or activites;
         (c)   Businesses engaged in the creation of artwork or performing arts
(both as defined in §
154.01)
         (d)   Corporate headquarters;
         (e)   Research and development;
         (f)   High technology growth businesses;
         (g)   Full service restaurants;
         (h)   Brewery or distillery concept with on-site production;
         (i)   Any commercial use where the property is subject to a pending
petition to annex into the corporate limits of the city and incentives are
provided as an inducement for such annexation; and
         (j)   Other uses, as may be determined by the Council, that are
consistent with the goals, and the plans.
   (B)   Specific criteria. The Council may, at its discretion and on a case-
by-case basis, include within an incentive agreement any other eligibility
criteria that must be met upon completion of a development in order to ensure
that the goals are met and that the development provides benefits to the city
(and its citizens) in amounts that warrant the implementation of incentives.
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 112.07 ADMINISTRATION AND TERMS OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   Application for incentives. Except where an applicant seeks only
incentives authorized by the state incentive programs listed in §
112.05(C), in order to be eligible for incentives, a person, firm or
corporation must submit to the City Administrator a proposed set of incentives
for a development (a "proposal"), in a form provided by the city. The proposal
must include a sufficient description of the development, to include, without
limitation, the following information:
      (1)   Identification of the property or properties on which the
development is to be located and any acquisition costs thereof;
      (2)   The estimated start date and completion date for any work to be
performed with respect to the development;
      (3)   A list of any physical improvements that are to be made with
respect to the development, including a good-faith estimate of the costs
thereof;
      (4)   The then-current value of the property on which the development is
to be located and a good-faith estimate of the value of the property upon
completion of the improvements thereto;
      (5)   A good-faith estimate of the number of jobs that the development is
projected to create, including an estimate of the date upon which the estimated
number of jobs will have been created;
      (6)   A statement affirming that, based upon any acquisition costs for
the property on which the development is to be located, along with good-faith
estimates for the costs of physical improvements and the number of jobs
created, the development will meet or exceed the minimum investment;
      (7)   A good-faith estimate of other revenue for the city that will be
created as a direct result of the development, including anticipated business
license fees, additional property tax revenue, additional hospitality or
accommodations taxes, and additional utility revenues and anticipated capital
improvements to city-owned infrastructure; and
      (8)   Any other additional information that the applicant or the City
Administrator deems may be necessary and helpful for the Council to evaluate
and give due consideration to the proposal.
   (B)   Determination of incentive amounts. The amount of incentives granted
to a development shall be based upon the amount of the anticipated investment
in the development (as calculated in accordance with the eligibility
requirements) and the amount of anticipated new revenue for the city directly
created by the development. The amount of incentives granted to a development
shall in no case exceed the value of the direct and indirect benefits of the
development to the city. These amounts shall be expressly included within any
incentive agreement and the incentive agreement shall require that actual
investment in the development meet or exceed any applicable minimum investment
requirements.
   (C)   Certification, commencement and continuation of incentives.
      (1)   No incentive shall commence or be given until such time as the
development has been issued a certificate of occupancy and/or a business
license as well as a certificate that all terms and minimum requirements
included within the applicable incentive agreement, including without
limitation minimum investment requirements and property valuation, have been
fully achieved or otherwise completed.
      (2)   Where requirements of an incentive agreement, such as the
continuous operation of a development, are to be met continuously over a period
of time, the incentive recipient shall provide to the city, on an annual basis,
sufficient proof that the development has continuously achieved or otherwise
complied with such requirements.
      (3)   If, at any time after completion of a development or at any time
within the period of time during which a development is granted incentives, a
development fails to achieve or otherwise comply with any requirement of an
incentive agreement the Council may, at its discretion, and on a case-by-case
basis:
         (a)   Declare the incentive agreement null and void and refuse to
grant any future incentives; or
         (b)   Decrease the amount of incentives based upon the actual direct
and indirect benefits of the development to the city and its citizens.
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
§ 112.08 ADMINISTRATION OF INCENTIVES AND INCENTIVE AGREEMENTS.
   The administration of the application process, specifically including the
drafting of any proposal, and continuous monitoring of developments pursuant to
applicable incentive agreements shall be the responsibility of the City
Administrator and any person designated to oversee such process by the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 17-018, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2024-008, passed 5-14-2024)
CHAPTER 113: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Permitted locations
   
113.04   Short-term rental unit permit required
   
113.05   Application for short-term rental unit permit
   
113.06   Short-term rental unit agent and duties
   
113.07   Grant or denial of application
   
113.08   Posting of short-term rental unit permit and information on premises
   
113.09   Advertising
   
113.10   Inspections
   
113.11   Licenses, permits and tax verification forms required
   
113.12   Renewals and modifications
 
   
113.99   Violations and penalties
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish uniform regulations for the
operation of short-term rental units; to protect the public health, safety and
general welfare of individuals and the community at large; to provide
reasonable means to mitigate potential impacts that may be created by occupancy
of short-term rental units; and, to establish appropriate regulations to
protect the integrity of residential neighborhoods.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT. A dwelling unit, principal or accessory, that is
rented in its entirety to transient guests for less than 30 consecutive days.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT AGENT. A natural person designated by the owner of a
short-term rental unit on the short-term rental unit permit application who can
perform the duties described within this chapter.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. A person who provides remuneration for lodging at a place
other than his/her principal place of residence for a period of less than 30
consecutive days.
(Ord. 2024-024, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 113.03 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   Short-term rental units shall be permitted in residential districts subject
to agent/owner verification of deed restrictions, covenants, rules and
regulations of a homeowners or property owners association, or other
restrictions.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall rent, lease or otherwise exchange for compensation a
residential dwelling unit as short-term rental unit, as defined in §
113.02, without first obtaining a short-term rental unit permit.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99 
§ 113.05 APPLICATION FOR SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT PERMIT.
   Applicants for a short-term rental unit permit shall submit an initial
application for a short-term rental unit permit, to be renewed annually. The
application shall be furnished on a form prepared by the city accompanied by a
non-refundable application fee as set forth in the city’s Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT AGENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The owner of a short-term rental unit shall designate a short-term
rental unit agent on its application for a short-term rental unit permit. A
property owner may serve as the short-term rental unit agent or, alternatively,
the property owner may designate a natural person as his or her agent who is at
least 18 years of age or older.
   (B)   The short-term rental unit agent must be able to perform the following
duties:
      (1)   Ensure that the short-term rental unit is properly maintained and
regularly inspected for compliance with applicable zoning, building, health,
life safety code provisions and this chapter;
      (2)   Be available at a listed phone number 24 hours a day, seven days a
week to handle any problems arising from use of the short-term rental unit;
      (3)   Travel to the premises of any short-term rental unit within one
hour following notification by the city of issues related to the use or
occupancy of the premises. This includes, but is not limited to, notification
from the city that occupants of the short-term rental unit have created
unreasonable noise or disturbances, engaged in disorderly conduct or committed
violations of the city code or other applicable law. This is not intended to
impose a duty to act as a peace officer or otherwise require the agent to place
himself or herself in a perilous situation;
      (4)   Receive and accept service of any notice of violation related to
the use or occupancy of the premises; and
      (5)   Be able to produce copies of the executed rental or lease agreement
for current occupants as needed.
   (C)   To change the designated agent, the owner shall notify the city in
writing of the new agent's identity, together with all information regarding
such person as required by the applicable provisions of this chapter within
five days of the change.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 GRANT OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review of a short-term rental unit application shall be conducted in
accordance with due process principles and shall be granted unless the
applicant fails to meet the conditions and requirements of this chapter, or
otherwise fails to demonstrate the ability to comply with local, state or
federal law. Any false statements or information provided in the application
are grounds for revocation, suspension and/or imposition of penalties,
including denial of future applications.
   (B)   All of-record property owners adjacent to a proposed short-term rental
unit shall be notified of the use prior to the issuance of an initial short-
term rental unit permit. Notification shall be issued by the short-term rental
unit owner or agent and proof of notification provided to the city in the form
of an affidavit. The notification to the property owners shall include:
      (1)   Street address of the proposed short-term rental unit rental;
      (2)   Name of the property owner(s); and
      (3)   Name of short-term rental unit agent and contact information.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024)
§ 113.08 POSTING OF SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT PERMIT AND INFORMATION ON PREMISES.
   Inside the short-term rental unit, the following shall be posted in a
conspicuous place:
   (A)   A legible copy of the short-term rental unit permit; and
   (B)   A legible copy of transient guest information to include the
following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number(s) and email address of the
short-term rental unit agent;
      (2)   The location of required parking spaces;
      (3)   Emergency numbers for the local police and fire departments;
      (4)   The schedule of solid waste and recycling pick-up;
      (5)   The permit number assigned by the city;
      (6)   A statement that the occupant(s) agree to abide by the requirements
of this chapter, any other city ordinances and acknowledgment that his or her
rights under the agreement may not be transferred or assigned to anyone else;
and
      (7)   A statement that the city has a noise control ordinance §
132.14, that will be enforced, that any sound that could be reasonably expected
to create a nuisance or cause disturbance to the peace and enjoyment of
neighboring properties will not be permitted and that "quiet hours" are between
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 ADVERTISING.
   The short-term rental unit permit number assigned to an individual short-
term rental unit must be published in every print and digital advertisement for
the short-term rental unit.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 INSPECTIONS.
   Short-term rental units must be properly maintained and regularly inspected
by the owner or short-term rental agent to ensure continued compliance with
applicable zoning, building, health and life-safety code provisions.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 LICENSES, PERMITS AND TAX VERIFICATION FORMS REQUIRED.
   No person shall rent or lease a dwelling unit as a short-term rental unit as
defined without initially and on a continuing basis:
   (A)   Obtaining a short-term rental unit permit from the city;
   (B)   Providing proof of a business license from the city; and
   (C)   Paying all applicable fees and taxes.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 RENEWALS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Renewals. All short-term rental unit permit holders must apply
annually for renewal of the registration permit.
   (B)   Modifications. An application for a modification of a short term
rental unit permit is necessary when the short-term rental unit agent changes.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
      (1)   Operate a short-term rental unit without complying with the
requirements of this chapter and the city code;
      (2)   Advertise a residential dwelling as being available for a short-
term rental unit without first complying with the requirements of this chapter,
including applying for and obtaining a short-term rental unit permit; and
      (3)   (a)   Operate a short-term rental unit that has received two or
more notifications of violations during any one-year permit period.
         (b)   When there is a change of ownership, the number of allowable
notices and violations shall be reset upon the issuance of a new short-term
rental unit permit.
   (B)   Failure of the short-term rental unit agent to timely appear to two or
more complaints regarding violations may be grounds for penalties including but
not limited to, revocation of the permit as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-024, passed 8-8-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES CONCERNING PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
      
135.   WEAPONS
      
136.   ADVERTISING
      
137.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Impersonating an officer
   
130.02   Obstructing justice; generally
   
130.03   Assaulting or resisting public official or police officer
   
130.04   Approaching within 20 feet of person being arrested
   
130.05   Failure to aid police
   
130.06   Interfering with firefighters
   
130.07   Obstructing or interfering with public utility officers
   
130.08   False alarms; generally
   
130.09   Reports or complaints to Police Department
   
130.10   Escape from confinement; fraudulent payment of bail
   
130.11   Releasing prisoner before completion of sentence
   
130.12   Report of treatment of wounds
   
130.13   Closing hours for parks and playgrounds
   
130.14   Railroads; complaints of conduct
   
130.15   Entry on rights-of-way or property
§ 130.01 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, other than an official police officer of the city, shall
wear or carry the uniform, apparel, badge, identification card or any other
insignia of office like or similar to, or a colorable imitation of that adopted
and worn or carried by the police officers of the city.
   (B)   No person shall do or attempt any act to impersonate a police officer.
(1985 Code, § 14-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Impersonating an officer, see S.C. Code § 16-17-720
§ 130.02 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE; GENERALLY.
   Any person within the city who shall hinder, prevent or obstruct any officer
or other person charged with the execution of any warrant or other process
issued under the provisions of any ordinance of the city, in arresting any
person for whose arrest the warrant or other process may have been issued, or
in arresting any person for any treason, felony or breach of the peace,
committed in the officer’s presence, or shall rescue or attempt to rescue the
person from the custody of the officer or person lawfully assisting the
officer, or shall aid, abet or assist any person so arrested, directly or
indirectly, to escape from the custody of the officer or person assisting the
officer, or shall harbor or conceal any person for whose arrest a warrant or
other process shall have been issued so as to prevent the person's discovery
and arrest, after notice or knowledge of the issuing of the warrant or other
process, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 14-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-5-50
§ 130.03 ASSAULTING OR RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICIAL OR POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall assault, resist, hinder, oppose, abuse, molest or interfere
with any police or other officer or employee of the city, or of any department
or board of the city, in the discharge of official duties.
(1985 Code, § 14-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Hindering officers, see S.C. Code § 16-5-50
§ 130.04 APPROACHING WITHIN 20 FEET OF PERSON BEING ARRESTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully to approach nearer than
20 feet to any police officer who is making an arrest or attempting to do so,
or while on the way to jail with the prisoner, except as otherwise directed by
the police officer.
   (B)   All police officers are empowered to order all persons away from the
vicinity of the site of arrest or the jail while any person is being placed
therein or being held for custody.
(1985 Code, § 14-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 FAILURE TO AID POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of each and every citizen of the city to assist the
police or other municipal officer to arrest violators of the law when
commanded, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to do so.
(1985 Code, § 14-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to hinder or obstruct any firefighter or other
authorized person while the person is answering a fire call or any other
emergency call, or to hinder or obstruct the person who is attempting to
extinguish a fire or remedy any emergency while acting in an official capacity,
or to loiter about the station used by the Fire Department.
   (B)   The failure to obey any lawful order of any official of the Fire or
Police Departments at the scene of any emergency shall be unlawful.
(1985 Code, § 14-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Driving over fire hose, see S.C. Code § 56-5-3850
   Following fire apparatus and parking near fires, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1960
   Operation of vehicle on approach of emergency vehicle, see S.C. Code § 56-5-
2360
§ 130.07 OBSTRUCTING OR INTERFERING WITH PUBLIC UTILITY OFFICERS.
   During a riot or other civil emergency, no person shall hinder, obstruct,
endanger or interfere with any person who is engaged in the operation,
installation, repair or maintenance of any essential public service facility
within the city, including any facility for the transmission of electricity,
gas, telephone messages or water.
(1985 Code, § 14-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 FALSE ALARMS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall make or cause to be made with intent to deceive, any
false alarm by means of the fire alarm system, public or private alarm system,
telephone or by any other means of communication.
   (B)   No person shall wilfully make or cause to be made any false call for
an ambulance by any means of communication.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any authorized personnel while
installing, testing or repairing the alarm systems in the normal course of
employment.
(1985 Code, § 14-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Alarm boxes and false alarms from the boxes, see S.C. Code § 16-17-570
§ 130.09 REPORTS OR COMPLAINTS TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall knowingly make, file or cause to be made or filed, a false
or misleading report, allegation or complaint with the Police Department.
(1985 Code, § 14-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.10 ESCAPE FROM CONFINEMENT; FRAUDULENT PAYMENT OF BAIL.
   (A)   No person, being lawfully confined in any prison or upon the public
works of the city or while in the custody of any superintendent, guard or
officer, shall escape, attempt to escape or have in the person's possession
tools or weapons which may be used to facilitate an escape.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly escape or attempt to escape confinement in
the city jail by tendering a false bank draft, check or any other negotiable
instrument not honored or paid upon presentation in payment of a bail order or
fine.
(1985 Code, § 14-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 24-13-410
§ 130.11 RELEASING PRISONER BEFORE COMPLETION OF SENTENCE.
   The Chief of Police, or any officer having in custody any person duly
sentenced and committed by the judge, shall not release the person at any time
previous to the completion of the full term of the sentence, unless required or
authorized by competent legal or medical authority to do so.
(1985 Code, § 14-12)
Statutory reference:
   Aiding escape, see S.C. Code §§ 16-9-410 and 16-9-420
§ 130.12 REPORT OF TREATMENT OF WOUNDS.
   Every physician or surgeon, whenever treating any person in the city for a
gunshot or stab wound, shall notify the Police Department within one hour of
the time the professional service is rendered or the physician is called upon
to render the service.
(1985 Code, § 14-13)
§ 130.13 CLOSING HOURS FOR PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.
   All parks and playgrounds within the city shall close between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and sunrise on each day of the week, except when an activity has
been officially authorized by the City Parks and Playground Commission, or the
city during those hours. Any person who shall go onto a park or playground
within the city during the closing hours as herein set out, without the
permission of the City Parks and Playground Commission or the city, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 14-14) (Ord. 2024-007, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 130.14 RAILROADS; COMPLAINTS OF CONDUCT.
   The City Council has the authority to apply directly to the State Public
Service Commission for relief from conduct of any railroad within the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 58-17-190
§ 130.15 ENTRY ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or be upon any railroad right-
of-way or property, or to tamper with any switch, crossing bar, lights or any
other railroad device, without the express consent of the company owning the
right-of-way or property; provided, however, that the within prohibition shall
not apply to entry or presence on any publicly maintained grade crossing.
(Prior Code, § 14-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES CONCERNING PROPERTY
Section
Larceny
   
131.001   Larceny
   
131.002   Larceny by false pretense
Public Property
   
131.015   Damaging or misuse of public property generally
   
131.016   Opening or tampering with fire hydrants and waterlines
   
131.017   Breaking or removing street lights
   
131.018   Walking on or damaging grass plots
   
131.019   Damaging private property generally
   
131.020   Removing or damaging property on vacant structure or building
Trespassing
   
131.035   Trespassing on private property
   
131.036   Breaking or entering coin box or other receptacle
   
131.037   Breaking and entering outside showcase or counter
   
131.038   Trespassing on publically owned property or private or public
utilities
Tampering With/Damaging Property
   
131.055   Tampering with property of public utilities; manhole covers
   
131.056   Tampering with utility wires and posting bills on utility poles
   
131.057   Damaging public lamps, utilities poles and sign posts
   
131.058   Injury or damage to flowers, shrubs, fences and parks
   
131.059   Flags and decorations; damaging
   
131.060   Damaging monuments and signs
   
131.061   Defrauding places of public accommodation; proof, exception
   
131.062   Receiving stolen goods prohibited
   
131.063   Revocation of license upon conviction
   
131.064   Removing, destroying or leaving down fences
General Offenses
   
131.080   Failing to return books and the like, borrowed from certain public
institutions
   
131.081   Trespass for various purposes
   
131.082   Altering and removing landmarks
LARCENY
§ 131.001 LARCENY.
   No person shall wrongfully take, steal, obtain or withhold by any means
whatever, from the possession of the true owner or any other person, any money,
personal property or article of value of any kind of a value of less than $200
with intent, permanent or temporary, to deprive or defraud another person of
the use and benefit of the property, or to appropriate the same to the person's
own use or the use of any person other than the true owner.
(1985 Code, § 14-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.002 LARCENY BY FALSE PRETENSE.
   No person shall induce, or attempt to induce, any person to give up, or pay
over any money or other thing of value, by any false representation or
pretense, or in exchange for any false or bogus coin or check, draft or other
false evidence of value, or in consideration of refraining from a lawful or
unlawful arrest, or in consideration of refraining from reporting any unlawful
act to any public official.
(1985 Code, § 14-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 16-13-230 et seq.
PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 131.015 DAMAGING OR MISUSE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY GENERALLY.
   No person shall wilfully damage, destroy or trespass upon, or illegally make
use of, any public property of any kind whatsoever belonging to, or in the
possession and care of the city, whether streets, trees, buildings or other
property.
(1985 Code, § 14-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Damage to property, see S.C. Code §§ 16-11-520 et seq.
§ 131.016 OPENING OR TAMPERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS AND WATERLINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a member of the Fire Department
or a person expressly authorized by the Director of Public Works, to open or
otherwise tamper with any fire hydrant or waterline within the corporate limits
of the city.
(1985 Code, § 14-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.017 BREAKING OR REMOVING STREET LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break any lamp or electric light or
to remove any electric light bulb or otherwise tamper with any street light.
(1985 Code, § 14-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.018 WALKING ON OR DAMAGING GRASS PLOTS.
   No person shall walk upon or damage any grass plots planted by the city in
its parks or in any street, lane, alley or open court within the city, where
prohibiting signs are posted.
(1985 Code, § 14-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.019 DAMAGING PRIVATE PROPERTY GENERALLY.
   No person shall break, deface, remove or destroy any private property of
another without first having obtained the consent of the owner.
(1985 Code, § 14-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Damaging property, see S.C. Code §§ 16-11-510 et seq.
§ 131.020 REMOVING OR DAMAGING PROPERTY ON VACANT STRUCTURE OR BUILDING.
   No person shall remove or in any manner damage any fixture, attachment or
other property belonging to, connected with or used in the construction of any
vacant structure or building, or break into any vacant structure or building
unless authorized to enter and remove any fixture, attachment or other property
belonging to, connected with or used in the construction on any vacant
structure or building, whether built or in the process of construction or
damage the structure or building in any way, whether intentional or not, in
attempting to enter the structure or building or in removing, or attempting to
remove, any fixture, attachment or other property belonging to, connected with
or used in the construction of the structure or building.
(1985 Code, § 14-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRESPASSING
§ 131.035 TRESPASSING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall wilfully enter upon the lands or premises of another
without the consent of the owner, or after having been forbidden to do so or
after the land or premises has been posted by the owner, occupant or any other
authorized person with a conspicuous notice forbidding trespassing.
   (B)   No person shall neglect or refuse to depart from the property of
another when ordered to do so by the owner, occupant or any other person with
authority to order the departure.
(1985 Code, § 14-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.036 BREAKING OR ENTERING COIN BOX OR OTHER RECEPTACLE.
   (A)   No person shall, by and with the aid and use of any key, instrument,
device or explosive, break or attempt to break, or force or attempt to force an
entrance into any coin box, depository box, newspaper coin box or other
receptacle not belonging to the person.
   (B)   No person shall, without making payment for any article of merchandise
or service, extract or obtain, or attempt to extract or obtain from any coin
box or receptacle anything of value deposited or contained in the receptacle or
coin box.
(1985 Code, § 14-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.037 BREAKING AND ENTERING OUTSIDE SHOWCASE OR COUNTER.
   No person shall break and enter, or attempt to break and enter, or enter
without breaking, at any time, any outside showcase or other enclosed counter
used for the display of goods, wares or merchandise.
(1985 Code, § 14-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.038 TRESPASSING ON PUBLICALLY OWNED PROPERTY OR PRIVATE OR PUBLIC
UTILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall trespass or loiter on any of the properties enumerated
in division (B) below, when the properties are posted with signs which have
been approved by the Chief of Police as being sufficiently well designed and
located as to apprise the public of the fact that the property is so
restricted.
   (B)   The following properties shall be posted as provided in division (A)
above:
      (1)   Every reservoir, dam, pumping station, aqueduct, main canal or pipe
line of a public water system;
      (2)   Every reservoir, dam, generating plant, receiving station,
distributing station and transmission line of a company or agency furnishing
electrical energy;
      (3)   Every gas generating plant, compressor plant, gas holder, gas tank
and gas main used for the production, storage and distribution of gas;
      (4)   Every plant or vital part thereof, including sewer mains, settling
tanks and outfall sewers used for sewage disposal purposes;
      (5)   Every plant or vital part thereof or other principal property
essential to rendering telephone or telegraph service; and
      (6)   Every radio or television broadcasting central plant or station.
(1985 Code, § 14-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
TAMPERING WITH/DAMAGING PROPERTY
§ 131.055 TAMPERING WITH PROPERTY OF PUBLIC UTILITIES; MANHOLE COVERS.
   (A)   No person shall alter, remove, interfere with or tamper with, any
wire, fixture, pipe, conduit, meter or other appliance of any waterworks plant,
gas or electrical, or telephone, telegraph or other company, or person
operating a similar business, or tap any supply wires or pipes, or fraudulently
or secretly extract, or use any water, electricity or gas of the plant or
company, or uncover or open up any manhole or other opening to any sewer,
unless the person so doing is an employee of the company or city, or under
authority and direction to do so.
   (B)   No person shall leave any manhole or other opening open or unprotected
without replacing the fixtures and appliances in their proper place and
position.
(1985 Code, § 14-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.056 TAMPERING WITH UTILITY WIRES AND POSTING BILLS ON UTILITY POLES.
   No person shall meddle, tamper with, damage, break, cut, take down or
disarrange any telegraph, telephone or electric light pole, fire or police
alarm pole or box, or any wire cord, lamp or other apparatus used in operating
or maintaining any telegraph, telephone, electric light or fire alarm, without
authority so to do, or post any bills or posters of any kind whatsoever upon
any poles or posts within the city.
(1985 Code, § 14-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.057 DAMAGING PUBLIC LAMPS, UTILITIES POLES AND SIGN POSTS.
   No person shall wilfully or wantonly damage or break any of the public
lamps, or any glass in the lamps, or any lamp post, telegraph, telephone,
electric light or fire alarm pole, or any sign post or street sign.
(1985 Code, § 14-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-11-740
§ 131.058 INJURY OR DAMAGE TO FLOWERS, SHRUBS, FENCES AND PARKS.
   No person shall wilfully, and without authority cut, pull, pluck or
otherwise injure any flowers, flowering plants, shrubs or trees growing in or
around any private or public grounds or wilfully tear down, remove, cut or
otherwise damage or destroy any gate, fence, bench, seat, bridge, building or
other structure or property located on public property.
(1985 Code, § 14-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.059 FLAGS AND DECORATIONS; DAMAGING.
   No person shall remove, destroy, damage, deface, or disarrange any flag or
other decoration without the consent of the owner.
(1985 Code, § 14-36) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-17-220
§ 131.060 DAMAGING MONUMENTS AND SIGNS.
   No person shall wilfully remove, destroy, mutilate, damage or deface in any
way or to any extent, any monument or sign in, on or upon any public park,
street or private property of the city.
(1985 Code, § 14-37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.061 DEFRAUDING PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION; PROOF, EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall obtain food, lodging or other accommodation at any
hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house or place, or any other
lodging place, with the intent to defraud the owner or keeper.
   (B)   Proof that lodging, food and other accommodations were obtained by
false pretense or fictitious show of any package or other property, or that the
person gave a check or negotiable paper on which payment was refused, or that
the person left the hotel, motel, inn, boarding, eating or rooming house or
place or other lodging place, without paying or offering to pay for the goods,
lodging or other accommodation or that the person surreptitiously removed or
attempted to remove the package or property, or that the person registered
under a fictitious name shall be prima facie proof of attempt to defraud.
   (C)   This section shall not apply where there has been an agreement in
writing for delay in payment.
(1985 Code, § 14-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.062 RECEIVING STOLEN GOODS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall buy or receive any goods, chattels or other property
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe the property to have been stolen
or knowing that the seller thereof has not good and lawful title to the
property, or without having made a reasonable and careful inquiry into the
title or ownership of the property.
   (B)   No person shall purchase any goods, chattels or other property from or
through any minor without the written permission of the parent or guardian of
any minor.
   (C)   The purchase or possession of any stolen goods, chattels or other
property shall be prima facie evidence of knowledge that the same was stolen
and the burden of proof to show facts justifying a belief that the property was
not stolen property shall be upon the party purchasing or in possession of the
property.
(1985 Code, § 14-39) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Receiving stolen goods, see S.C. Code § 16-13-180
§ 131.063 REVOCATION OF LICENSE UPON CONVICTION.
   The license of any merchant in the city, in whose stock of goods may be
found any stolen goods and who shall be convicted of the crime of receiving
stolen goods, shall be immediately revoked.
(1985 Code, § 14-40)
§ 131.064 REMOVING, DESTROYING OR LEAVING DOWN FENCES.
   Any person other than the owner, who shall remove, destroy or leave down any
portion of any fence in the city intended to enclose animals of any kind, or
crops or uncultivated lands, or who shall leave open any gate or leave down any
bars or other structure intended for a like purpose shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 14-41) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-11-650
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 131.080 FAILING TO RETURN BOOKS AND THE LIKE, BORROWED FROM CERTAIN PUBLIC
INSTITUTIONS.
   Whoever borrows from any county library or municipal, school, college or
other institutional library or gallery, museum, collection or exhibition any
book, newspaper, magazine, manuscript, pamphlet, publication, recording, film
or other article shall be given written notice, mailed to the person's last
known address or delivered in person, to return the borrowed article within 15
days, the person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; provided the notice required
by this section shall bear upon its face a copy of this section.
(1985 Code, § 14-42) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see S.C. Code § 16-13-340
§ 131.081 TRESPASS FOR VARIOUS PURPOSES.
   Any person entering upon the lands of another for the purpose of hunting,
fishing, trapping, netting, gathering fruit, wild flowers, cultivated flowers,
shrubbery, straw, turf, vegetables or herbs or cutting timber on the same
without the consent of the owner or manager thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 14-43) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-11-610
§ 131.082 ALTERING AND REMOVING LANDMARKS.
   If any person shall knowingly, wilfully, maliciously or fraudulently cut,
fell, alter or remove any certain boundary tree or other allowed landmark, the
person so offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 14-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-11-680
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Assault
   
132.02   Disorderly conduct; generally
   
132.03   Idling
   
132.04   Disorderly establishment; investigative procedures
   
132.05   Disturbing school
   
132.06   Interfering with worship
   
132.07   Loitering; generally; police orders to disperse; penalty
   
132.08   About police station
   
132.09   Ringing doorbells
   
132.10   Flood lights restricted
   
132.11   Masked or disguised persons; exceptions
   
132.12   Burning crosses; intimidating exhibits; placing exhibits while masked
   
132.13   Solicitation on highways prohibited
   
132.14   Noises
§ 132.01 ASSAULT.
   No person shall attempt, or offer with unlawful force or violence, to do
bodily harm to another person, whether or not the attempt or offer is
consummated.
(1985 Code, § 14-50) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Assault with concealed weapon, see S.C. Code § 16-3-610
§ 132.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; GENERALLY.
   (A)   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the purpose of
causing public danger, alarm, disorder, nuisance, or if the person's conduct is
likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, the person wilfully
does any of the following acts in a public place:
      (1)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another,
whereby that other is placed in danger of loss of, or injury to, life, limb or
health;
      (2)   Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another,
whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or
damaged;
      (3)   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct
so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
      (4)   Interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of
violence;
      (5)   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear the public way when
ordered to do so by the city police or other lawful authority known to be such;
      (6)   Incites, attempts to incite or is involved in attempting to incite
a riot;
      (7)   Threatens violence to any member of the city Police Department, any
other authorized official of the city who is engaged in the lawful performance
of duties, or any other person when the words have a direct tendency to cause
acts of violence; or
      (8)   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous or unreasonable
noise or disturbance when a person of ordinary sensibilities would be annoyed
or disturbed.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to suppress the right to lawful
assembly, picketing, public speaking or other lawful means of expressing public
opinion not in contravention of other laws.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      (1)    RIOT shall mean a public disturbance involving:
         (a)   Any act of violence by one or more persons, part of an
assemblage of three or more persons, which act shall constitute a clear and
present danger of, or shall result in, damage to the property of any other
persons or injury to the persons of any other individual; or
         (b)   A threat of the commission of any act of violence by one or more
persons, part of an assemblage of three or more persons having individually or
collectively the ability of immediate execution of the threat, where the
performance of the threatened act of violence would constitute a clear and
present danger of, or would result in damage to the property of any other
person, or injury to the person of any other individual.
      (2)   INCITE A RIOT shall mean, but is not limited to, urging or
instigating other persons to riot, but shall not be deemed to mean the mere
oral or written:
         (a)   Advocacy of ideas; or
         (b)   Expression of belief, not involving advocacy of any act of
violence or assertion of the rightness, of, or the right to commit, any such
act.
(1985 Code, § 14-51) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Public disorderly conduct, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 132.03 IDLING.
   (A)   A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if the person shall
remain idle in essentially one location in a public place in such manner so as
to:
      (1)   Create, or cause to be created, a danger of a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Create, or cause to be created, any disturbance or annoyance
calculated to interfere with the comfort and repose of any person;
      (3)   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      (4)   Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in any
public place; and
      (5)   Make unsolicited remarks of an offensive, disgusting or insulting
nature or which are calculated to annoy or disturb the person to, or in whose
hearing, they are made.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of reasonable
judgment, decide that the presence of any person in any public place is causing
any of the conditions enumerated in division (A) above, the officer may, if
deemed necessary for the preservation of the public peace and safety, order
that person to leave that place, and any person who shall refuse to leave after
being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a violation.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to peaceful picketing, public speaking or
other lawful expressions of opinion not in contravention of other laws.
(1985 Code, § 14-52) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Public disorderly conduct, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY ESTABLISHMENT; INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES.
   No person, firm, or organization in control of any premises shall allow or
tolerate any disorderly conduct upon the premises. For the purpose of this
section, a person, firm or organization in control of any premises shall
include, but is not necessarily limited to: any owner, lease holder, manager,
assistant manager, or other person in apparent control of the premises. Any
person who is found guilty of a violation of this section shall be punished
according to the general penalty provisions in this code for violation of a
city ordinance.
(Ord. 10-001, passed 1-12-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 DISTURBING SCHOOL.
   (A)   No person shall wilfully or unnecessarily:
      (1)   Interfere with or disturb in any way or in any place the students
or teachers of any school or college;
      (2)   Loiter about the school or college premises; or
      (3)   Act in an obnoxious manner thereon.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Enter upon school or college premises; or
      (2)   Loiter around the premises, except on business, without the
permission of the principal or person in charge.
(1985 Code, § 14-54) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing school, see S.C. Code § 16-17-420
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH WORSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or disturb any public
gathering or religious worship within the city.
(1985 Code, § 14-55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 LOITERING; GENERALLY; POLICE ORDERS TO DISPERSE; PENALTY.
   (A)   No person shall loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either
alone or in consort with others in a public place in such manner as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles or pedestrians; and
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building, any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress or
egress, or moving about therein, thereon or thereto.
   (B)   (1)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions
enumerated in division (A) above, a police officer or any law enforcement
officer shall order that person to stop causing or committing the conditions
and to move on or disperse.
      (2)   Any person who fails or refuses to obey the orders shall be guilty
of a violation of this section.
(1985 Code, § 14-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.08 ABOUT POLICE STATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter about the city police station
or to communicate in any way with the prisoners therein, without the consent of
the police officer on duty.
(1985 Code, § 14-57) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.09 RINGING DOORBELLS.
   No person shall ring any doorbell or knock on any door for the purpose of
annoying the occupants of the premises.
(1985 Code, § 14-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.10 FLOOD LIGHTS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall have, keep, maintain or cause or permit to be kept or
maintained, either as the owner or as the one in possession or in charge, any
flood light or any other reflector type light on any property in such manner
that its light is unnecessarily thrown into the residence of any person in the
vicinity so as to constitute, while the light is on, a continuous annoyance to
the person occupying the other residence.
(1985 Code, § 14-59) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.11 MASKED OR DISGUISED PERSONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person over 16 years of age shall appear on any street, highway,
alley, public park or other public place in the city in any mask or disguise
which conceals the identity of the person, without the permission of the Chief
of Police.
   (B)   No person shall appear on any street, highway, alley, public park,
public home, private home or any other place to make trick or treat
visitations; provided that this section shall not apply to children 16 years or
less on Halloween night prior to 10:00 p.m.
(1985 Code, § 14-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Wearing masks which conceal one's identity, see S.C. Code § 16-7-110
§ 132.12 BURNING CROSSES; INTIMIDATING EXHIBITS; PLACING EXHIBITS WHILE MASKED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed on
the property of another in the city, a burning or flaming cross or any manner
of exhibit in which a burning or flaming cross, real or simulated, is a whole
or a part without first obtaining the written permission of the owner or
occupant of the premises to do so.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed
anywhere in the city, any exhibit of any kind whatsoever with the intention of
intimidating any person, to prevent any person from doing any act which is
lawful or to cause any person to do any act which is unlawful.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include
all walks, alleys, streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, roads, highways or
other ways or thoroughfares dedicated to public use or owned or maintained by
public authority and all grounds and buildings owned, leased by, operated or
maintained by public authority.
(1985 Code, § 14-63) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-7-120
§ 132.13 SOLICITATION ON HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person located on a public right-of-way to
solicit contributions or to distribute any written materials to any other
person within a motor vehicle which is upon any public highway, street or road
within the City of Goose Creek.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 7-1-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.14 NOISES.
   (A)   Generally. It is found and declared that:
      (1)   The making and creation of excessive, nuisance, unnecessary or
unusually loud noises within the limits of the City of Goose Creek is a
condition which has existed for some time and the extent and volume of the
noises is increasing;
      (2)   The making, creation or maintenance of the excessive, nuisance,
unnecessary, unnatural or unusually loud noises which are prolonged, unusual
and unnatural in their time, place and use affect and are a detriment to public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents
of the City of Goose Creek; and
      (3)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted, is declared as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy, and it is further declared that
the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and quiet of
the City of Goose Creek and its inhabitants.
   (B)   Prohibited noises generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to
make, continue or cause to be made or continued, or contribute to creating or
continuing, any excessive, nuisance, or unusually loud noise, or any noise of
the character, intensity or duration which interferes with the comfortable
enjoyment of persons of ordinary sensibilities occupying, owning or controlling
nearby properties, or persons making use of public properties for their
intended purposes, within the city.
   (C)   Specific noises prohibited. The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud, excessive, disturbing, nuisance, unnecessary or unusual
noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall not be deemed to
be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Radios, phonographs, televisions and the like. The playing, using,
operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set,
stereo, recorder, compact disc player, television set, musical instrument,
phonograph or other similar machine or device for the producing or reproduction
of sound in the manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary
for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, chamber
or vehicle, whether the vehicle is parked or moving, or public place in which
the machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The
operation of any set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device in such a
manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 linear feet or greater
measured from the closest part of the structure from which the sound is
emanating, or at a distance of 50 linear feet or greater measured from the
closest point of the vehicle from which the sound is emanating, or at a
distance of 50 linear feet or greater measured from the device in possession of
a pedestrian shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section. To
be in violation, it is not necessary that words or phrases be discernible, and
bass reverberations are considered to be included in the terms “plainly
audible”.
      (2)   Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including
excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on weekdays, and 9:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. on weekends, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the City's Building
Inspector, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or
less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for periods
of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the Building Inspector
should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the
erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of
streets and highways within the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays
and 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on weekends, and if he or she shall further
determine that the loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest,
he or she may grant permission for the work to be done within the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on weekends, upon
application being made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during
the progress of the work.
      (3)   Pile drivers, hammers and the like. The operation between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on weekends
of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric
hoist of other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual
noise.
      (4)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as
a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper authority.
      (5)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      (6)   Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower, power fan or
any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from the blower or fan
is muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden the noise.
      (7)   Refrigerating or air cooling equipment. The operation of any
refrigerating or air cooling equipment used in connection with any building,
structure or vehicle unless noise is muffled or the equipment is equipped with
muffler device to deaden the noise.
      (8)   Transportation of metal rails, pillars and columns. The
transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material,
over and along streets and other public places upon carts, trays, cars, trucks
or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the
peace and quiet of the streets or other public places.
      (9)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in the manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
      (10)   Racing engines. The racing of the engine of any motor vehicle,
while the vehicle is not in motion, except when necessary to do so in the
course of repairing, adjusting or testing the same.
      (11)   Horns, signals devices and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar or other vehicle on
any street or public place of the city, the creation by means of any signaling
device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound and the sounding of any device
for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time. The use of any signaling
device except one operated by hand or electricity, the use of any horn, whistle
or other device operated by engine exhaust and the use of any signaling device
when traffic is for any reason held up.
      (12)   Loading, unloading, opening and the like, boxes and the like. The
creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading
any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and
containers.
      (13)   Continuous or repeated noises. Regardless of the level of sound,
the following shall be prohibited:
         (a)   To keep any animal, including a bird, causing a frequent or long
continued noise, such as barking, howling or screeching, disturbing the comfort
and repose of any person of ordinary sensibilities in the immediate vicinity;
and
         (b)   To install or operate a burglar alarm system which uses an
audible warning or bell without a functioning device that will shut off the
warning or bell within 20 minutes after application of the system when the
alarm cannot be readily or conveniently silenced by persons who are disturbed
by its activation. Each activation of an alarm beyond 20 minutes shall be
deemed a separate offense.
      (14)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers and the like for advertising. The using,
operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine
or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which broadcast upon the
public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the
attention of the public to any building or structure.
      (15)   Drums and the like. The use of any drum, whistle, rattle, bell,
gong, clapper, horn, hammer or other instrument or device for the purpose of
attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, exhibition, show
or sale.
      (16)   Hawkers, peddlers and the like. The shouting and crying of
peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
      (17)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, calling, crying,
shouting, hooting, whistling or singing in an unreasonably loud fashion on the
public streets, particularly between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. or at
any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or
of any persons in the vicinity.
      (18)   Schools, courts, churches and hospitals. The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital or
nursing home, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of the
institutions, or which disturbs or unduly annoys the patients in the hospital
or the residents in the nursing care facility, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed in the streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital, care
facility or court street.
   (D)   Enforcement factors. In the enforcement of standards established in
this section, an enforcement officer may be required to exercise judgment in
determining if a particular noise is sufficiently loud or otherwise so
offensive that it would unreasonably disturb a person of ordinary
sensibilitiesin the vicinity. When making the determinations, the enforcement
officer shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
      (4)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
      (5)   The type and intensity of background noise, if any;
      (6)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
      (7)   The nature of zoning of the area(s) in which the noise is heard;
      (8)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (9)   The duration of the noise; and
      (10)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (E)   Special permits for events and exhibitions. When approved by City
Council, the City Administrator or his or her designee may issue on a temporary
basis, permits for special events or exhibitions such as (but not limited to)
music, speeches or general entertainment as a part and in recognition of the
community celebration of national, state or city events, concerts, festivals,
parades, athletic and recreational events, to permit reasonable and limited
exceptions to the provisions of this section. Any special event or exhibition
permit issued shall contain specific provisions as to the activities that will
be conducted and dates and times during which the provisions of this section
are to be suspended. Specific sources of any noise shall be identified and
special conditions may be established in the permit which will minimize the
noise impact of the special event or exhibition on the community, provided the
permit shall be subject to revocation at the discretion of the City
Administrator or his or her designee on the basis of excessive or inappropriate
noise. Whenever the revocation occurs, the activities of the event or
exhibition shall then become subject to the prohibitions of this section.
   (F)   Exemptions. The following noises shall be exempt from the prohibitions
from this section, even when they cause a disturbance:
      (1)   The sound produced by horns, sirens and alarms used with authorized
emergency vehicles or otherwise used as safety devices to alert persons to
danger or attempted crime; however, this exemption shall not apply to
improperly operating burglar alarms as identified in division (C)(13)(b) above;
      (2)   The sound produced by emergency repair measures necessary to
restore public utilities, to restore property to a safe condition or to protect
persons or property from imminent danger, following a fire, accident or natural
disaster;
      (3)   The sound produced by bells, chimes or other carillon instruments
when used to signify the passage of hour, half-hour or quarter-hour components,
or to commemorate a wedding, funeral or similar event including regular
religious services, provided the sound does not exceed five continuous minutes
in duration in any one hour period;
      (4)   The sound produced by the following, provided there is compliance
with any federal regulations applicable to the noise:
         (a)   Aircraft in flight or in operation at an airport;
         (b)   Railroad equipment in operation on railroad rights-of-way; and
         (c)   Motor vehicles, otherwise in lawful operation, on all public
streets and highways.
      (5)   The sound of water splashing produced by any waterfall, stream,
decorative water fountain or irrigation device when established or operated in
an ordinary and customary manner; and
      (6)   The unamplified sound emanating from a ballpark, playing field,
stadium or comparable outdoor facility designed and intended for recreational
or sports activity when used during the period between 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
of the same calendar day for organized exhibitions, participatory sports or
recreational activities.
(Ord. 01-004, passed 4-10-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Indecent exposure
   
133.02   Fortune telling to promote other business
   
133.03   Harassing, threatening and obscene telephone calls
   
133.04   Drunkenness in public
   
133.05   Contributing to delinquency of a child
   
133.06   Obscene material
   
133.07   Gambling; generally
   
133.08   Pools
§ 133.01 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall appear in any public place in a state of nudity or otherwise
make any indecent exposure of the person.
(1985 Code, § 14-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Indecent exposure, see S.C. Code § 16-15-130
§ 133.02 FORTUNE TELLING TO PROMOTE OTHER BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business, trade or profession of
fortune telling, palmistry, phrenology, clairvoyance or the prediction of
future events by palmistry, astrology, clairvoyance, cards or other means as an
inducement to promote some other business, trade or profession.
(1985 Code, § 14-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-17-690
§ 133.03 HARASSING, THREATENING AND OBSCENE TELEPHONE CALLS.
   No person shall telephone any other person repeatedly or cause any person to
be telephoned repeatedly in such manner as to harass or molest the other person
or the other person's family, whether or not conversation ensues, or use any
threatening, vulgar, indecent, or obscene language over any telephone.
(1985 Code, § 14-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 16-17-430
§ 133.04 DRUNKENNESS IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall be in a drunk or intoxicated and disorderly condition in or
on any public place or in any place open to the public.
(1985 Code, § 14-77) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   See S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 133.05 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   No person shall contribute to, encourage, cause or tend to cause the
delinquency or neglect of a child under 17 years of age, whether or not the
child is adjudicated a ward of the court.
(1985 Code, § 14-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Contributing to delinquency of a minor, see S.C. Code § 16-17-490
§ 133.06 OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   The offense of printing, selling or exhibiting, or distributing obscene
material shall be as set out in the S.C. Code §§ 16-15-305 et seq., as amended,
which provisions are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this code.
(1985 Code, § 14-79)
§ 133.07 GAMBLING; GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall open, keep or maintain any gaming house in any
building within the city, or suffer or permit any description of gaming or
playing any game of chance or skill for money, goods, chattels or other things
whatever.
   (B)   No person shall participate or engage in any device of gaming whatever
in any building, street, lane, alley, court, park, lot or public way within the
city.
(1985 Code, § 14-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Simulated gambling devices restricted, see §
110.100
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, see S.C. Code §§ 16-19-10 et seq.
§ 133.08 POOLS.
   No person shall bet in or sell a pool within the city upon any race, horse
race, boat race, foot race, baseball, football or other game.
(1985 Code, § 14-81) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
   
134.01   Sale and the like
   
134.02   Possession of marijuana or hashish
   
134.03   Transactions in drug-related objects; definitions
   
134.04   Prohibitions
   
134.05   Exceptions
   
134.06   Defense to prosecution
   
134.07   Destruction
§ 134.01 SALE AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, give away, bargain, trade, distribute
in any manner, transport, use, prescribe, possess, knowingly keep, conceal or
allow on premises under the person's control any narcotic or controlled
substance or aromatic hydrocarbon in violation of S.C. Code Title 44, Chapter
53, Article 3, as amended, or other law of the state.
(1985 Code, § 14-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA OR HASHISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to
possess marijuana or hashish in any form or amount whatsoever in a house, part
of a house, outhouse, room in any house or building or anywhere on the person's
property, in or on any motor vehicle, bicycle, boat, garage, trailer or train
or on the person, unless substance was obtained directly from, or pursuant to a
valid prescription or order of a practitioner while acting in the course of the
practitioner's professional practice.
   (B)   Anyone so doing, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Provided, however, that any person who violates this section with
respect to 28 grams or one ounce or less of marijuana or ten grams or less of
hashish shall be triable in the Municipal Court.
(1985 Code, § 14-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 44-53-370
§ 134.03 TRANSACTIONS IN DRUG-RELATED OBJECTS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use or designed for use, in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body, a controlled substance in violation of city,
state and federal law:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance, or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
      (5)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (6)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      (7)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (8)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (9)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed for
use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (10)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      (11)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chilams;
         (l)   Bongs; and
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (12)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, the Chief
of Police and the court shall consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom the person
knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of this chapter, the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, as to a direct violation of the chapter shall not prevent a
finding that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug
paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National or local advertising concerning its use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (l)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (m)   The existence and scope of legitimate use for the object in the
community; and
         (n)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(1985 Code, § 14-92)
§ 134.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing the drug-related nature
of the object, to sell, lend, rent, lease, give, exchange or otherwise
distribute to any person, any drug paraphernalia.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing the drug-related nature
of the object, to display for sale or possess with the intent to distribute,
any drug paraphernalia.
   (C)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to use or to possess with
intent to use any drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, replace, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body, a controlled substance in violation of
this chapter.
   (D)   KNOWING, as used herein, means either actual or constructive knowledge
of the drug-related nature of the object, and a person has constructive
knowledge of the drug-related nature of the object if the person has knowledge
of facts which would put a reasonable and prudent person on notice of the drug-
related nature of the object.
(1985 Code, § 14-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding the drug-related objects
provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the manufacture, sale,
distribution or advertisement of any product or object designed and sold
primarily for scientific research, industrial, veterinary or agricultural
purposes, or for bona fide medical or clinical use.
(1985 Code, § 14-94)
§ 134.06 DEFENSE TO PROSECUTION.
   It shall be an affirmative defense that the person to whom the drug-related
object, advertisement or notice was distributed had a prescription from a
licensed medical practitioner or psychiatrist for marijuana or the controlled
substance for which the object is primarily intended to be used. It is also an
affirmative defense that the drug-related object was designed or marketed as
useful, primarily for veterinary or agricultural purposes.
(1985 Code, § 14-95)
§ 134.07 DESTRUCTION.
   All instruments, devices and objects which are seized on condemnation as
being distributed or possessed in violation of this chapter may be destroyed by
the municipality only after compliance with the following procedure: within 15
days after conviction for a violation of this chapter or within 90 days from
the date of acquisition of instruments, devices and objects described in this
chapter are to be destroyed, unless the items are to be used as evidence in
cases before a superior court or those items are considered suitable for public
display by the Police Department in drug education programs.
(1985 Code, § 14-96)
CHAPTER 135: WEAPONS
Section
   
135.01   Discharging of firearms and dangerous devices; generally
   
135.02   Carrying loaded firearm
   
135.03   Carrying weapons
   
135.04   Pointing firearm at any person
   
135.05   Drawing weapon in affray
§ 135.01 DISCHARGING OF FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS DEVICES; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful to fire or discharge any rifle, gun, pistol, air rifle,
pellet gun or other device which may be potentially harmful to any person or
property, with the exceptions stated in §
135.02, or by special permit issued by the Chief of Police. Any device used
within the city in violation of this section is hereby declared to be
contraband, and the device shall be seized by the police and sold or destroyed.
(1985 Code, § 14-100) (Ord. 89-07, passed 7-11-1989; Ord. 06-019, passed 8-24-
2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 CARRYING LOADED FIREARM.
   It shall be unlawful to carry on one’s person, any loaded firearm, unless:
   (A)   The person is in compliance with all requirements of the Law Abiding
Citizens Self- Defense Act of 1996, sometimes commonly called the Concealed
Weapon Permit Law, which is found at S.C. Code Title 23, Section 31, Article 4
and Open Carry with Training Act of 2021, including the right of a concealed
weapons permit holder to openly carry if following the requirements of that
Act;
   (B)   If the person is a law enforcement officer or retired law enforcement
officer exempt from local and state conceal carry restrictions under the “Law
Enforcement Officers Safety Act” including amendments as set forth in federal
law including 18 U.S.C. 926B and 18 U.S.C. 926C; or
   (C)   A person carrying a concealed weapon upon their own premises. The
weapon so carried shall be forfeited to the city upon conviction of a violation
of this section.
(1985 Code, § 14-101) (Ord. 2023-007, passed 2-14-2023; Ord. 2023-023, passed
8-8-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.03 CARRYING WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry about the person any dirk,
metal knuckles, razor, pistol, hawkbill knife or any spring or clasp knife,
which has a blade more than three inches in length, or other weapon usually
used for the infliction of personal injuries. The weapon so carried shall be
forfeited to the city upon conviction of a violation of this section.
(1985 Code, § 14-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Concealed weapons, see S.C. Code § 16-23-460
§ 135.04 POINTING FIREARM AT ANY PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to present or point at any other person,
any loaded or unloaded firearm. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to
abridge the right of self-defense or to apply to theatricals or like
performances.
(1985 Code, § 14-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see S.C. Code § 16-23-410
§ 135.05 DRAWING WEAPON IN AFFRAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to draw a knife, gun, pistol or any
dangerous or deadly weapon in any affray or disturbance in the city or at any
time to threaten another with physical violence with such.
(1985 Code, § 14-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 136: ADVERTISING
Section
   
136.01   Scattering handbills
   
136.02   Painting or printing on sidewalks
   
136.03   Posting on public property
   
136.04   Posting on private property
§ 136.01 SCATTERING HANDBILLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, scatter, toss or throw
handbills, booklets, cards, posters or other printed matter into or upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public highway or portion thereof, or to
place, scatter, toss or throw any handbill, circular, advertising card,
pamphlet, booklet or other printed matter, into or attach the same to a motor
vehicle parked or being driven upon any street or other highway in the city, or
on any yard, lawn, driveway or porch, or in the vestibule of any building, or
attach any of the same to any door or place where they may reasonably be
expected to be blown by the wind or thrown by the occupant of the premises or
by others into or upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public highways,
or portions thereof, so as to litter the streets, sidewalks, alleys or public
highways, clog catch basins and sewers, create fire hazards, obstruct passage
or create an unclean or filthy condition.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to newspapers or magazines or to
anything delivered by the United States Postal Service.
   (C)   This section shall be liberally construed to permit the reasonable
circulation of printed information so as not to suppress the freedom of the
press, but shall be so enforced as to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the city.
(1985 Code, § 14-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.02 PAINTING OR PRINTING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall print, paint, write, inscribe or affix, or in any other way
deface the sidewalks, streets or other public property of the city for
advertising or other purposes; provided, nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prohibit the Police Department or any other department of the city
from marking the sidewalks for the purpose of controlling traffic or for any
other city purpose.
(1985 Code, § 14-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.03 POSTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any placards, posters or
advertisements of any kind on public property within the city, by use of a
placard, picture, circular, painting or by any means of device whatsoever.
(1985 Code, § 14-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.04 POSTING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, whether business, political
or otherwise, or any notice or sign of any nature on private property within
the city, without the consent of the owner or lessee of the property.
(1985 Code, § 14-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 137: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Public nuisances prohibited
   
137.03   Enumeration of public nuisances affecting health
   
137.04   Public nuisances affecting public safety
Abatement
   
137.20   Complaint by citizens; report by officers
   
137.21   Notice to abate nuisance
   
137.22   Abatement by city
   
137.23   Abatement by court action
   
137.24   Cost of abatement
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §§
93.145 through
93.147
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any act whereby the health or life of any individual may be
endangered, injured or impaired, or which causes any disease is hereby declared
a nuisance. Further, it shall be lawful for the health officials to declare as
nuisances, things the existence of which may be deemed unhealthful or harmful
to the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The term PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean any act, thing, occupation,
condition or use of property which shall continue for the length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; and
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way.
(1985 Code, § 14-120)
§ 137.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, contrive, cause, continue,
maintain or permit to exist, any public nuisance within the city.
(1985 Code, § 14-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.03 ENUMERATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   Public nuisances affecting health shall include, but not be limited to, the
following acts, omissions, conditions or things:
   (A)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold
or offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
   (C)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal or any material
whatsoever in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other
vermin may breed;
   (D)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
multiply;
   (E)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not fly-tight;
   (F)   All noxious weeds and other rank growth or vegetation;
   (G)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases, fly
ash or industrial dust within the city or within one mile therefrom in the
quantities as to endanger the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to
threaten or cause substantial damage to property;
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other substances; and
   (I)   Any use of property, substances or things emitting or causing any
foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable odors, effluvia or
stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary persons which
annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of any appreciable number
of persons within the city.
(1985 Code, § 14-122)
§ 137.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PUBLIC SAFETY.
   Public nuisances affecting public safety shall include, but not be limited
to the following:
   (A)   All signs and billboards, awnings and other similar structures over or
near streets, sidewalks, public grounds of places frequented by the public, so
situated or constructed as to endanger the public safety;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a
clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk;
   (C)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk or roadway
less than eight feet above the surface of a public sidewalk or less than 14-1/
2 feet above the surface of a public roadway;
   (D)   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung less
than 15 feet above the surface of street or ground;
   (E)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and all
excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of the
city or which, although made in accordance with the ordinances, are kept or
maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished;
   (F)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk;
   (G)   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from which the doors and other
covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with a device for
opening from the inside; and
   (H)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley or sidewalk, or of a public street, alley or sidewalk, which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of
the streets or sidewalks.
(1985 Code, § 14-123)
ABATEMENT
§ 137.20 COMPLAINT BY CITIZENS; REPORT BY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any citizen or resident of the city may complain of and report to the
City Clerk, any nuisance, other matter or thing detrimental to the public
health. The complaint and report must be in writing, must specify fully the
character of the nuisance or other matter complained of, and be signed by the
person making the complaint or report.
   (B)   The Clerk shall promptly notify the Chief of Police, health officer or
Building Inspector, who shall inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and
make a written report of the findings to the Mayor. Whenever practicable, the
inspecting officer shall cause photographs to be made of the premises and shall
retain the same in the officer's office.
(1985 Code, § 14-130)
§ 137.21 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   If the inspecting officer determines that a public nuisance exists on
private property and that there is great and immediate danger to the public
health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the Chief of Police shall serve
notice on the owner or, if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant or person
causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance and to post a copy of the
notice on the premises.
   (B)   The notice shall direct the owner, occupant or person causing,
permitting or maintaining the nuisance to abate or remove the nuisance within
24 hours. The notice shall state that unless the nuisance is so abated, the
city will cause it to be abated and will charge the costs to the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance.
   (C)   Any person refusing or neglecting to abate a nuisance after having
been directed to do so shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 14-131) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 137.22 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the nuisance is not abated within the time provided or if the owner,
occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot be found, the health officer, in
case of health nuisances and the Chief of Police in other cases, shall cause
the abatement or removal of the public nuisance.
(1985 Code, § 14-132)
Statutory references:
   Abatement of public health nuisances by the State Board of Health and
Environmental Control, see S.C. Code § 48-1-280
   Authority of cities to abate nuisances, see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-30 and 5-7-80
§ 137.23 ABATEMENT BY COURT ACTION.
   If the inspecting officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists on
private premises, but that the nature of the nuisance is not such as to
threaten great and immediate danger to the public health, safety, morals or
decency, the officer shall file a written report of findings and cause an
action to abate the nuisance to be commenced in the name of the city in a court
of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of the state
statutes.
(1985 Code, § 14-133)
§ 137.24 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter for the erection,
contrivance, creation, continuance or maintenance of a public nuisance, the
cost of abating a public nuisance by the city shall be collected as a debt from
the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance.
If notice to abate the nuisance has been given to the owner, the cost shall be
assessed against the real estate as other special taxes.
(1985 Code, § 14-134)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS; CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
      
151.   ZONING
      
152.   STANDARDS FOR PLACEMENT OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
153.   RESERVED
      
154.   PUBLIC ART ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
155.   FLOOD HAZARD CONTROLS
      
156.   IMPACT FEE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS; CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Short title
   
150.03   Conflict with other laws and ordinances
   
150.04   Enforcement of article provisions
   
150.05   Administration official
   
150.06   Fire District
   
150.07   Fee schedule for permits
Specific Codes
   150.20   Adoption of building codes
Enforcement
   
150.25   Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
150.26   Inspections for code compliance
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   In pursuance of authority conferred by the S.C. Code 1976 §§ 6-9-10 et seq.
and to facilitate proper inspection activities by the city relating to
construction and maintenance of buildings within the corporate limits and to
promote public safety, health and general welfare, the Mayor and Councilmembers
do hereby ordain and enact into law this chapter.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Building Code of Ordinance of
the City of Goose Creek".
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.03 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES. 
   Whenever there is, or appears to be a conflict between any rules,
regulations and standards of this chapter and other ordinances of the city, any
ambiguity shall be construed in favor of the laws of the state or the
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.04 ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE PROVISIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is subject to punishment
as provided in § 10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.05 ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official is hereby appointed to administer and enforce the
codes adopted in this chapter.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.06 FIRE DISTRICT.
   The area within the corporate limits of the city shall constitute the Fire
District of the city.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.07 FEE SCHEDULE FOR PERMITS.
   Building valuation data used in the permitting processes. Fees for
respective permits, inspection services, and fees associated with the
development process shall be governed by the city and may be amended and
updated from time to time and will be on file with the City Clerk and Finance
Director.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
SPECIFIC CODES
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES.
   The following codes are hereby amended and adopted by reference as though
they were incorporated fully in this section. The application of these codes
shall be the most current issue of adoption by the South Carolina Building Code
Council and have an enforcement date the same as specified by the state and as
provided under S.C. Code 1976 § 6-9-60 and including applicable amendments,
appendices, and/or revisions thereto.
   (A)   International Building Code, with South Carolina modifications;
including Chapter One. Administration and Appendix H, Signs. The following are
modifications to Chapter One:
      (1)   Paragraph [A] 101.4.4 Property maintenance. The provisions of the
City of Goose Creek Health and Sanitation Code Chapter 93; Property Maintenance
Code Chapter 95; and City of Goose Creek Zoning Chapter 151 shall apply to
existing structures, premises; equipment and facilities; light, ventilation,
space heating, sanitation, life and fire safety hazards; responsibility of
owners, operators and occupants; and occupancy of existing premises and
structures.
      (2)   Paragraph [A] 102.6.2 Buildings previously occupied. The legal
occupancy of any building existing on the date of adoption of this code shall
be permitted to continue without change except as otherwise specifically
provided by this code, the South Carolina Fire Code or City of Goose Creek
Zoning Chapter 151 as deemed necessary by the building official for the general
safety and welfare of the occupants and the public.
      (3)   Section [A] 103 Building Inspection Division.
         (a)   Paragraph [A] 103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The Building
Inspection Division is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall
be known as the building official.
         (b)   Paragraph [A] 103.2 Appointment. The building official shall be
appointed by the City Administrator or designee.
         (c)   Paragraph [A] 103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed
procedures of the city and the with concurrence of the City Administrator or
designee, the building official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy
building official and inspectors. Such employees shall have powers as delegated
by the building official.
      (4)   Paragraph [A] 105.2 (9) Work exempt from permit. Prefabricated
swimming pools accessory to an R-3 dwelling unit, portable in construction, are
not more than 48 inches in depth, are not more than 3500 gallons, and are
completely above ground with no permanent attachments to water or electrical
services. Prefabricated portable and above ground swimming pools are not
allowed accessory to R-2 dwellings.
      (5)   Paragraph [A] 105.3.2 Time limit of application. The application
for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 90
days after the date of filing, except that the building official is authorized
to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 30
days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable caused
demonstrated.
      (6)   Paragraph [A] 105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become
invalid unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is completed
within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time
the work is commenced. The building official is authorized to grant, in
writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days
each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated. A permit extension fee shall be assessed on any permit granted an
extension. The permit extension fee will be the lessor of the original cost of
the permit or $100 dollars.
      (7)   Paragraph [A] 109.6 Refunds. The Finance Director is authorized to
establish a refund policy.
      (8)   Section [A] 113 Board of Appeals. Replaced with Building Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, see City of Goose Creek Code §
150.25.
   (B)   International Residential Code, with South Carolina Modifications;
including Chapter One. Administration and Appendix H, Patio Covers, Appendix J,
Existing Buildings and Structures, Appendix Q, Tiny Houses. The following are
modifications to Chapter One:
      (1)   Paragraph [R]101.2.7 Existing structures. The legal occupancy of
any structure existing on the date of the adoption of this code shall be
permitted to continue without change, except as is specifically covered in this
code, the City of Goose Creek Health and Sanitation Code
Chapter 93; Property Maintenance Code
Chapter 95; City of Goose Creek Zoning Ordinance
Chapter 151. or the South Carolina Fire Code, or as is deemed necessary by the
building official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the
public.
      (2)   Section [R] 103 Building Inspection Division.
         (a)   Paragraph 103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The Building
Inspection Division is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall
be known as the building official.
         (b)   Paragraph 103.2 Appointment. The building official shall be
appointed by the City Administrator or designee.
         (c)   Paragraph 103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed
procedures of the city and with the concurrence of the City Administrator or
designee, the building official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy
building official and inspectors. Such employees shall have powers as delegated
by the building official.
      (3)   Paragraph [R] 105.2 (7) Work exempt from permit. Prefabricated
swimming pools accessory to an R-3 dwelling unit, portable in construction, are
not more than 48 inches in depth, are not more than 3500 gallons, and are
completely above ground with no permanent attachments to water or electrical
services. Prefabricated portable and above ground swimming pools are not
allowed accessory to R-2 dwellings.
      (4)   Paragraph [R] 105.3.2 Time limit of application. The application
for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 90
days after the date of filing; except that the building official is authorized
to grant one or more extensions of lime for additional periods not exceeding 30
days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable caused
demonstrated.
      (5)   Paragraph [R] 105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become
invalid unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is completed
within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time
the work is commenced. The building official is authorized to grant, in
writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days
each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated. A permit extension fee shall be assessed on any permit granted an
extension. The permit extension fee will be the lessor of the original cost of
the permit or $100 dollars.
      (6)   Paragraph [R] 108.5 Refunds. The Finance Director is authorized to
establish a refund policy.
      (7)   Section [R] 112 Board of Appeals. Replaced with Building Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, see City of Goose Creek Code §
150.25.
   (C)   International Plumbing Code, with South Carolina modifications.
Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International Building Code as
adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
   (D)   International Mechanical Code, with South Carolina modifications.
Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International Building Code as
adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
   (E)   International Fuel Gas Code, with South Carolina modifications.
Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International Building Code as
adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
   (F)   National Electric Code, as published by the National Fire Protection
Association, § 70, with South Carolina modifications.
   (G)   International Fire Code, with South Carolina modifications.
Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International Building Code as
adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
   (H)   International Existing Building Code, with South Carolina
modifications. Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International
Building Code as adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
   (I)   South Carolina Energy Standard, 2009 International Energy Conservation
Code with South Carolina modifications and ASHRAE Standard 90.1-2007.
Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International Building Code as
adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
   (J)   International Solar Energy Provisions, with South Carolina
Modifications. Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International
Building Code as adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
   (K)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, with South Carolina
Modifications. Administration shall be by Chapter One of the International
Building Code as adopted by the City of Goose Creek.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.25 BUILDING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a board to be called the Building Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, which will consist of five members, who shall be
citizens of the city and shall be appointed by the City Council, for
overlapping terms of three years. The Board shall be composed of one engineer,
one general contractor and three members at-large from the building industry.
Initial appointment shall be as follows: one member for a term of three years,
two members for a term of two years and two members for a term of one year. Any
vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same
manner as the initial appointment. Members shall serve without pay but may be
reimbursed for any expenses incurred while representing the Board.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall elect a Chairperson and a
Vice-Chairperson from its members who shall serve for one year or until re-
elected or until their successors are elected. The Board shall appoint a
Secretary who may be a city officer, an employee of the city or a member of the
Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals. The Board shall adopt rules and
bylaws in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Ordinances. Meetings of
the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at other times as
the Board may determine. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
   (C)   The Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building Official
in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   To authorize upon appeal in specific cases, a variance from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, where,
owing to specific conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that
the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured
and substantial justice done. The variance may be granted in the individual
cases of unnecessary hardship upon finding by the Building Board of Adjustments
and Appeals.
      (3)   The Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall, in every case,
reach a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary delay.
      (4)   If a decision of the Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals
reverses or modifies a refusal, order, or disallowance of the Building
Official, or varies the application of any provision of this chapter, the
Building Official shall immediately take action in accordance with the
decision.
   (D)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or employee of the city.
      (1)   The appeals shall be taken by filing with the Building Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Building Official shall transmit to the Board the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with the officer,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the
officer's opinion, cause imminent peril to life and properly. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise then by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board or by a court of competent jurisdiction, on notice to
the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
      (3)   The Board shall be allowed 15 working days for the hearing of the
appeal or other matter referred to it, and give public notice thereof, as well
as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or
by attorney.
   (E)   The concurring vote of three members of the Building Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Building Official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or
to affect any variation of this chapter.
   (F)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating the
fact, and shall keep records of it, examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Building Board of
Adjustments and Appeals and shall be a public record.
   (G)   On all appeals, applications and matters brought before the Building
Board of Adjustments and Appeals, the Board shall inform, in writing, all the
parties involved of its decisions and reasons thereof.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.26 INSPECTIONS FOR CODE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All inspections for new construction, renovation, repair or alteration
of any building shall be accomplished in accordance with the Building
Inspection Division's implementation and use of the family of International
Codes, as adopted by the city. Failure to comply with these requirements shall
be deemed as cause to have service of utilities revoked.
   (B)   Additionally, the responsible person shall be assessed penalties in
accordance with §
150.99. No building shall be occupied until the certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Official and released by the Permit Department.
   (C)   All inspections are to be scheduled by the holder of the building
permit using the Building Inspection Division's protocol as defined by the
Building Official.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be subject to punishment as
provided in §
10.99. Each day a violation shall continue, such shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 20-005, passed 3-10-2020)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
The Zoning Code can be found on the City of Goose Creek website at https://
www.cityofgoosecreek.com/sites/default/files/Planning%20and%20Zoning/
Chapter%20151%20Zoning_FINAL_28NOV23_wcover.pdf
 
For questions concerning the Zoning Code, please contact the City's Planning
and Zoning Department at (843) 797-6220.
CHAPTER 152: STANDARDS FOR PLACEMENT OF
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Purpose and scope; general provisions
   
152.03   Permitted use; application process and fees
   
152.04   Action on permit application
   
152.05   Requirements for small wireless facilities; new, modified, or
replacement poles; decorative poles
   
152.06   Effect of permit; occupancy and use fees
   
152.07   Removal, relocation or modification of a small wireless facility in
the ROW
   
152.08   Attachment to municipality poles
   
152.09   Indemnification, insurance and bonds
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA.
      (1)   Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services; and
      (2)   Similar equipment used for the transmission or reception of surface
waves.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization, or local
amendments to those codes that are of general application, address public
safety, and are consistent with this chapter.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant for a permit to (i)
collocate small wireless facilities; or (ii) install, modify, or replace a
pole.
   COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace small
wireless facilities on or adjacent to a pole or support structure. COLLOCATION
has a corresponding meaning.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components,
including wires, cables, surface wave couplers, and associated facilities used
by a cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 522(5); a provider of
"video service" as defined in S.C. Code § 58-12-300(10); a telecommunications
carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(51); a provider of information
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(24); or a wireless services
provider to provide communications services, including cable service, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 522(6); telecommunications service, as defined in
47 U.S.C. Section l53(53); an information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
Section 153(24); wireless services; surface wave communication; or other one-
way or two-way communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 522
(6), information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(24),
telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(53), or wireless
services.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
Section 522(5); a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
Section 153(24); a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section
153(51); or a wireless provider.
   DAY. A calendar day unless the last day for the municipality or an applicant
to take action under this chapter ends on a weekend, holiday, or time when all,
but municipality emergency services are closed due to weather or some
unforeseen situation.
   DECORATIVE POLE. A pole, including a municipality pole, that is specially
designed and placed for aesthetic purposes and on which no appurtenances or
attachments (other than a small wireless facility, public safety devices, or
specially designed informational or directional signage or temporary holiday or
special event attachments) have been placed or are permitted to be placed
according to nondiscriminatory rules or codes.
   DESIGN DISTRICT. A discrete area within the jurisdiction of the municipality
for which the municipality maintains and enforces unique design and aesthetic
standards on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis among all occupants of the
ROW, on the grounds that the characteristics of the discrete area warrant
design and aesthetic standards that differ from those that apply to the
majority of the areas within the jurisdiction of the municipality. (The design
districts in existence or otherwise established as of the date hereof are set
forth in Exhibit A which is attached to Ordinance 2021-018 and incorporated
herein by reference.).
   DESIGN MANUAL. A manual or guidebook that sets forth additional aesthetic,
design, concealment, and stealth requirements applicable to small wireless
facilities. The design manual may also, but need not, set forth examples of
small wireless facility deployments that the municipality deems to comply with
this chapter. (The initial form of the design manual is attached to Ordinance
2021-018 as Exhibit B and is incorporated herein by reference.).
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. A request for modification of an existing tower
or base station (as those terms are defined in 45 CFR §1.6100(b)) that does not
involve a substantial change in the physical dimensions of such tower or base
station and that involves collocation of new transmission equipment, removal of
transmission equipment, or replacement of transmission equipment.
   FEE. A one-time, non-recurring charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A group of buildings, properties, or sites that is
either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 C.F.R. Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   A registered historic district pursuant to state law at the time
the application is submitted; or
      (3)   An "overlay zone," as defined in and limited by the South Carolina
Comprehensive Planning Act, (a) that has been established by the municipality
at least 60 days prior to the relevant application; (b) for which the special
public interest to be protected is the preservation and protection of historic
and architecturally valuable districts and neighborhoods or archaeologically
significant resources according to uniform design standards; and (c) for which
the municipality maintains and enforces objective standards that are published
in advance and applied on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that (a) is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in
height; and (b) for which no exterior antenna is longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPALITY POLE. A pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of the
municipality; provided, however, that such term shall not include any pole,
support structure, electric transmission structure, or equipment of any type
that is part of a municipally owned or municipally controlled electric plant or
system for furnishing of electricity to the public for compensation. The term
municipality pole shall include, without limitation, poles that the
municipality leases, rents, licenses, or otherwise compensates the owner
thereof for the provision of street lighting.
   PERMIT. A written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required
to be issued by the municipality to initiate, continue, or complete the
collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or
replacement of a pole upon which a small wireless facility is to be collocated.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization, including the
municipality.
   POLE. A vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole
made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to
be located within the ROW including, but not limited to, a replacement pole and
a municipality pole. A pole shall not include a support structure or electric
transmission structure.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or ROW. The area through, upon, over, or under a road, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, or similar property provided; however, that such term
shall apply only to property or any interest therein that is under the
ownership or control of the municipality and shall not include property or any
interest therein acquired for or devoted to a federal interstate highway. For
purposes of this definition, the municipality shall be deemed to have "control"
of property and interests thereon owned by the state and/or the South Carolina
Department of Transportation to the extent that such property and interests are
within the territorial jurisdiction of the municipality.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial or
fiber optic cable located on a pole or support structure, immediately adjacent
to a pole or support structure, or directly associated with equipment located
on a pole or support structure and within a 100-foot radius of the pole or
support structure; regular and backup power supplies and rectifiers; and
associated ancillary equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a
fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave
communication between user equipment and a communications network and that
meets both of the following qualifications:
         (a)   Each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure
of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility, whether ground- or pole-mounted, is cumulatively no more than 28
cubic feet in volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are
not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment
associated with any such facility: electric meters, concealment elements,
network interface devices, grounding equipment, power transfer switches, cut-
off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
      (2)   The term SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY does not include: the pole,
support structure, or improvements on, under, or within which the equipment is
located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached; wireline backhaul
facilities; or coaxial or fiber optic cable that is between small wireless
facilities, poles, or support structures or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna. For purposes of
this definition, in order to be considered directly associated with equipment
located on a pole or support structure, coaxial or fiber optic cable must not
extend more than 100 feet in radial circumference from the base of the pole or
support structure to which the antenna is attached. No portion of a small
wireless facility may be used as a wireline backhaul facility.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   SUPPLEMENTAL REVIEW DISTRICTS. Design districts, historic districts, and
underground districts.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A building, billboard, or any other structure in the ROW
to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached. A SUPPORT STRUCTURE
shall not include an electric transmission structure or pole.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. That by virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility or its design, concealment
measures, or site location can be implemented without a material reduction in
the functionality of the small wireless facility.
   UNDERGROUND DISTRICT. A group of buildings, properties, or sites in which
the municipality, at least 60 days prior to the relevant application, has
required all communications and electric lines in the specified geographic area
to be placed underground, and for which the municipality maintains and enforces
objective standards that are published in advance and applied on a uniform and
nondiscriminatory basis. (The underground districts in existence or otherwise
established as of the date hereof are set forth in Exhibit A which is attached
to Ordinance 2021-018 and incorporated herein by reference.).
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the state, acting to build or install
wireless communication transmission equipment, small wireless facilities, or
support structures, but that is not a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to
the public.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground wireline facility
used to transport communications between a small wireless facility network
interface device and a network or another small wireless network interface
device.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide policies and
procedures, for the placement of small wireless facilities in ROWs within the
jurisdiction of the municipality.
   (B)   Scope and intent. It is the intent of this chapter to establish
uniform standards applicable to the application for and deployment of small
wireless facilities in a manner that serves the interests of the municipality,
its citizens, and the general public by advancing the following purposes:
      (1)   Prevention of interference with the use of streets, sidewalks,
alleys, parkways, traffic light poles or other light poles, and other public
ways and places;
      (2)   Prevention of visual and physical obstructions and other conditions
that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevention of interference with other facilities and operations of
facilities lawfully located in the ROWs or public property;
      (4)   Preservation of the character of neighborhoods where facilities are
installed;
      (5)   Preservation of the character of and applicable land use
requirements within design districts, historic districts, and underground
districts; and
      (6)   Facilitation of the rapid deployment of small wireless facilities
to provide the citizens with the benefits of advanced wireless services.
   (C)   Applicable only to small wireless facilities. Nothing in this chapter
limits the municipality's powers with respect to wireless facilities that are
not small wireless facilities in the ROW, or poles that are used for purposes
other than installation of small wireless facilities in the ROW.
   (D)   Right to prevent interference. The municipality retains the right to
require that all small wireless facilities shall be operated and maintained in
a manner that does not interfere with public safety (police, traffic control,
fire, and emergency services) equipment.
   (E)   Imminent risk to public safety. If the municipality determines that a
wireless provider's activity in the ROW pursuant to this chapter creates an
imminent risk to public safety, the municipality may provide written notice to
the wireless provider and demand that the wireless provider address such risk.
If the wireless provider fails to reasonably address the risk within 24 hours
of the written notice, the municipality may take or cause to be taken action to
reasonably address such risk and charge the wireless provider the reasonable
documented cost of such actions.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.03 PERMITTED USE; APPLICATION PROCESS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permitted use and consent. A wireless provider shall have the right,
as a permitted use subject to review and conditions as set forth herein, to
collocate small wireless facilities and install, maintain, modify, operate, and
replace poles in the ROW. These structures and facilities must be installed and
maintained so as not to create a safety hazard; obstruct or hinder the usual
travel in or the public's safe use of the ROW; or obstruct the legal use of the
ROW by utilities. In accordance with Article VIII, Section 15 of the State
Constitution and related municipal code and ordinance provisions, the
municipality consents to the use of the ROW by permit holders acting in
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall collocate a small wireless facility or install a
new, modified, or replacement pole or support structure associated with a small
wireless facility without first filing a small wireless facility application
and obtaining a permit as set forth herein. The municipality may require an
applicant to obtain additional permits for such activity, provided that such
additional permits are of general applicability and do not apply exclusively to
small wireless facilities. An applicant shall not be required to obtain or pay
any fees for a building permit, as the permit issued pursuant to this chapter
serves as a building permit for the applicable poles and small wireless
facilities. Any applications for any such additional permits, once submitted,
must be acted upon within the same number of days as an application for a
permit under this chapter. The municipality shall publish and keep current a
list of each additional permit that is required for the collocation of a small
wireless facility or the installation of a new, modified, or replacement pole.
Any failure to comply with this division by a wireless provider shall allow the
municipality, in its sole discretion, to restore the ROW to its condition prior
to the unpermitted collocation or installation and to charge the responsible
wireless provider its reasonable, documented cost of restoration, plus a
penalty not to exceed $1,000. The municipality may suspend the ability of the
wireless provider to receive any new permits from the municipality until the
wireless provider has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs;
provided, however, that the municipality shall not suspend such ability of any
applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an
adjudication of the merits.
      (2)   For deployments in ROWs under the ownership or control of the South
Carolina Department of Transportation ("SCDOT"), a wireless provider may, in
lieu of filing a formal application hereunder, request that the municipality
evidence its approval of the proposed deployment by consenting in writing to
the wireless provider's application for a SCDOT encroachment permit. If the
municipality consents in writing to the issuance of an SCDOT encroachment
permit, it shall concurrently therewith issue a permit consistent with such
consent. In all cases, the municipality's consent may be conditioned on
compliance with the municipality's lawful and applicable design, aesthetic,
stealth, and concealment standards, and subject to the foregoing, the
municipality will not unreasonably withhold or delay its written consent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the wireless provider shall retain the right to
file a formal application for a permit hereunder, in which case the terms,
conditions, and requirements of this chapter shall apply in full to such
application.
   (C)   Permit applications. All applications filed pursuant to this chapter
shall be on a form, paper or electronic, as required by the municipality. The
applicant may designate portions of its application materials that it
reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
"proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials
accordingly, and the municipality shall endeavor to protect materials so
designated from public disclosure to the fullest extent permitted by state law.
   (D)   Application requirements. The application shall be made by the
applicant, or its duly authorized representative as noted in a notarized
statement from the applicant, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and email address,
including emergency contact information for the applicant;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
filing of the application;
      (3)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the proposed facility. The scope and detail of such description shall
be appropriate to the nature and character of the physical work to be
performed, with special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or
impacted by the physical work proposed;
      (4)   Detailed construction drawings regarding the proposed use of the
ROW;
      (5)   To the extent the proposed facility involves collocation on a pole,
decorative pole, or support structure, a structural report performed by a duly
licensed engineer in South Carolina evidencing that the pole, decorative pole,
or support structure will structurally support the collocation, or that the
pole, decorative pole, or support structure may and will be modified to meet
structural requirements, in accordance with applicable codes;
      (6)   For any new aboveground facilities, visual depictions, or
representations if such are not included in the construction drawings;
      (7)   Information indicating the approximate horizontal and vertical
locations, relative to the boundaries of the ROW, of the small wireless
facility for which the application is being submitted;
      (8)   If the application is for the installation of a new pole or
replacement of a decorative pole, a certification that the wireless provider
has determined after diligent investigation that it cannot meet the service
objectives of the application by collocating on an existing pole or support
structure on which:
         (a)   The wireless provider has the right to collocate subject to
reasonable terms and conditions; and
         (b)   Such collocation would be technically feasible and would not
impose significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that
it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of an
engineer licensed in South Carolina, and shall provide a written summary of the
basis for such determination.
      (9)   If the small wireless facility will be collocated on a pole or
support structure owned by a third party, other than a municipality pole, a
certification that the wireless provider has permission from the owner to
collocate on the pole or support structure;
      (10)   An affirmation that the applicant is, on the same date, submitting
applications for the permits identified in the list the municipality maintains
pursuant to division (B) of this section;
      (11)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the criteria set forth in §
152.04(F); and
      (12)   For any applicant that is not a wireless services provider, an
attestation that a wireless services provider has requested in writing that the
applicant collocate the small wireless facilities or install, modify, or
replace the pole at the requested location.
   (E)   Routine maintenance and replacement. An application shall not be
required for: (1) routine maintenance; (2) the replacement of small wireless
facilities with small wireless facilities that are substantially similar or the
same size or smaller; or (3) the installation, placement, maintenance,
operation, or replacement of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on
cables that are suspended between poles or support structures in compliance
with applicable codes by a wireless provider that is authorized to occupy the
ROW and that is remitting a consent, franchise, or administrative fee pursuant
to S.C. Code Ann. § 58-9-2230. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the municipality
may require that prior to performing any activity described above, an applicant
must apply for and receive a permit for work that requires excavation or
closure of sidewalks or vehicular lanes within the ROW for such activity. Such
a permit must be issued to the applicant on a nondiscriminatory basis upon
terms and conditions that are consistent with applicable codes and that apply
to the activities of any other person in the ROW that require excavation or the
closing of sidewalks or vehicular lanes.
   (F)   Information updates. Any amendment to information contained in an
application shall be submitted in writing to the municipality within ten
business days after the change necessitating the amendment.
   (G)   Consolidated application. An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities may submit a single consolidated application, provided that
such a consolidated application shall be for a geographic area no more than two
miles in diameter and for no more than 30 small wireless facilities. In such
case, the applicant may receive a single permit for the collocation of multiple
small wireless facilities. The denial of one or more small wireless facilities
in a consolidated application must not delay processing of any other small
wireless facilities in the same consolidated application. Solely for purposes
of calculating the number of small wireless facilities in a consolidated
application, a small wireless facility includes any pole on which such small
wireless facility will be collocated.
   (H)   Application fees.
      (1)   The municipality hereby determines that the following fees for
applications are reasonable and nondiscriminatory and do not recover more than
the municipality's direct costs for processing an application. For each
application, the municipality hereby imposes fees as follows:
         (a)   For applications to collocate small wireless facilities on
existing poles or support structures, $100 each for the first five small
wireless facilities in the same application and $50 for each additional small
wireless facility in the same application;
         (b)   For applications to collocate small wireless facilities on new
poles, $1,000 for each pole, which fee covers both the installation of the new
pole and the collocation on the new pole of associated small wireless
facilities; and
         (c)   For applications to collocate small wireless facilities on
modified or replacement poles, $250 for each pole, which fee covers both the
modification or replacement of the pole and the collocation on the pole of
associated small wireless facilities.
      (2)   The application fee shall apply to a wireless provider regardless
of whether the wireless provider is subject to a business license tax that is
or may be imposed upon it pursuant to S.C. Code § 58-9-2220 or a franchise,
consent, or administrative fee that is or may be imposed upon it pursuant to
S.C. Code § 58-9-2230. The application fee shall apply to a communications
service provider regardless of whether the communications service provider is
subject to a franchise fee that is or may be imposed upon it pursuant to S.C.
Code § 58-12-330.
   (I)   Consultant fees. To the extent that the municipality engages one or
more consultants to assist in review of applications, the municipality shall
impose a fee for such applications to the extent permitted by, and calculated
in accordance with, S.C. Code § 58-11-850(D)(4).
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.04 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Notice of incompleteness. Within ten days of receiving an application,
the municipality must determine and notify the applicant in writing whether the
application is complete. If an application is incomplete, the municipality
shall specifically identify the missing information in writing. The processing
deadline set forth in division (B) below is tolled from the time the
municipality sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant
provides the missing information. The processing deadline also may be tolled by
agreement of the applicant and the municipality, confirmed in writing.
   (B)   Time requirements for review of applications. An application must be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis. The following shall apply to all
applications except those for eligible facilities requests, which are addressed
below in division (C). The municipality shall make its final decision to
approve or deny the application within 60 days of receipt of a complete
application for collocation of small wireless facilities and within 90 days of
receipt of a complete application for the installation, modification, or
replacement of a pole and the collocation of associated small wireless
facilities on the installed, modified, or replaced pole. If the municipality
fails to act on an application within the applicable time period, the applicant
may provide the municipality written notice that the time period for acting has
lapsed. The municipality shall then have 20 days after receipt of such notice
to render its written decision. The application shall be deemed to have been
approved by passage of time and operation of law if the municipality does not
render its written decision within the noticed 20 days. If applicable federal
or state law establishes a shorter period or different requirements for action,
the municipality shall comply with such applicable law, but the remedy for non-
compliance shall be limited to the remedy established by that applicable law.
   (C)   Eligible facilities requests. If the application is an eligible
facilities request, the municipality shall approve the application within 60
days of receipt of the application, subject to tolling after notification of an
incomplete application until the date when the applicant submits all the
documents and information identified in the notice of incompleteness. Any
approval shall be operative, and any permit issued pursuant to this division
shall remain in effect, only for so long as federal law (47 U.S.C. § 1455) and
implementing Federal Communications Commission regulations (47 C.F.R. §1.40001)
provide for special approval of an eligible facilities request. In approving an
eligible facilities request hereunder, the municipality intends only to comply
with the requirements of federal law and not to grant any property rights,
interests, or consents except as compelled by federal law.
   (D)   Notice in writing required. The municipality shall notify the
applicant in writing of its final decision. If the application is denied, the
municipality shall specify the basis for a denial, including citations to
federal, state, or local code provisions and/or statutes on which the denial
was based.
   (E)   Right to cure. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by
the municipality and resubmit the application within 30 days of the denial
without paying an additional application fee. The municipality shall approve or
deny the revised application within 30 days of resubmission and limit its
review to the deficiencies cited in the denial. If the municipality fails to
act on a revised application within this 30-day period, the applicant may
provide the municipality written notice that the time period for acting has
lapsed, and the municipality shall then have five days after receipt of such
notice to render its written decision approving or denying the revised
application. The revised application shall be deemed to have been approved by
passage of time and operation of law if the municipality does not render its
written decision within the noticed five days.
   (F)   Permissible bases for denial. The municipality may deny an applicant's
proposed collocation of a small wireless facility or a proposed installation,
modification, or replacement of a pole, decorative pole, or support structure
only if the proposed collocation, installation, modification, or replacement:
      (1)   Interferes with the safe operation of traffic control or public
safety equipment;
      (2)   Interferes with sight lines or clear zones for transportation or
pedestrians;
      (3)   Interferes with compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
or similar federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
      (4)   Requests that ground-mounted small wireless facility equipment be
located more than seven and one-half feet in radial circumference from the base
of the pole, decorative pole, or support structure to which the antenna is to
be attached, provided that the municipality shall not deny the application if a
greater distance from the base of the pole, decorative pole, or support
structure is necessary to avoid interfering with sight lines or clear zones for
transportation or pedestrians or to otherwise protect public safety;
      (5)   Fails to comply with the height limitations permitted by this
chapter or (if applicable) in the design manual, or with reasonable and
nondiscriminatory horizontal spacing requirements of general application
adopted by an enactment that concern the location of ground-mounted equipment
and new poles;
      (6)   Designates the location of a new pole, decorative pole, or support
structure for the purpose of collocating a small wireless facility within seven
feet in any direction of an electrical conductor, unless the wireless provider
obtains the written consent of the power supplier that owns or manages the
electrical conductor;
      (7)   Fails to comply with applicable codes;
      (8)   Fails to comply with the requirements applicable to the aesthetic,
stealth, and concealment requirements contained in this chapter, with the
requirements applicable to supplemental review districts, or (if applicable)
with the design manual;
      (9)   Fails to comply with laws of general applicability that address
pedestrian and vehicular traffic and safety requirements; or
      (10)   Fails to comply with laws of general applicability that address
the occupancy or management of the ROW and that are not otherwise inconsistent
with this chapter.
   (G)   Requirement to replace or upgrade. The municipality may not require a
wireless provider to replace or upgrade an existing pole except for reasons of
structural necessity, compliance with applicable codes, or compliance with this
chapter (including, if applicable, the design manual). A wireless provider may,
with the permission of the pole owner, replace or modify existing poles, but
any such replacement or modification must be consistent with the design
aesthetics of the poles being modified or replaced.
   (H)   Compensation. Subject to the limitations set forth herein, every
permit shall include as a condition the applicant's agreement to pay such
lawful franchise fees, business license taxes, administrative fees, and consent
fees as are permitted under applicable South Carolina and federal law. The
applicant shall also pay all applicable ad valorem taxes, service fees, sales
taxes, or other taxes and fees as may now or hereafter be lawfully imposed on
other businesses within the municipality.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES; NEW, MODIFIED, OR
REPLACEMENT POLES; DECORATIVE POLES.
   (A)   Administrative review. The municipality shall perform an
administrative review of applications including the location or installation of
new, modified, or replacement poles and/or support structures and the
collocation of small wireless facilities and equipment on poles or support
structures. Review factors, in addition to location, shall include the size,
shape, color, texture, and materials of the structures and attachments.
      (1)   The municipality may require that a proposed small wireless
facility or new, modified, or replacement pole be designed to not be
significantly more readily apparent or plainly visible (to a reasonable person
of ordinary sensibilities) than existing facilities, structures, equipment, and
poles located within 500 linear feet on the same ROW as the subject small
wireless facility, pole, or support structure.
      (2)   Where small wireless facilities are determined to be appropriate,
the use of reasonable stealth and concealment treatments, low-profile equipment
and control boxes, and screening may be required to avoid significant negative
impacts on the character and visual aesthetics of the area. However, such
requirements may be waived by the municipality upon a showing that the
particular location of a small wireless facility does not warrant stealth or
concealment treatments or imposes an excessive expense. The waiver shall be
granted or denied within 45 days after the date of the request.
      (3)   Supplemental review districts identified in division (C) of this
section (and listed in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 2021-018 and
incorporated herein by reference) may be subject to a higher level of review).
      (4)   The municipality may maintain a design manual which sets forth
additional aesthetic, design, concealment, and stealth requirements applicable
to small wireless facilities. The design manual may also, but need not, set
forth examples of small wireless facility deployments that the municipality
deems to comply with this chapter and provide a means for pre-approval of
designs that are suitable for a particular location, even if not strictly
compliant with the design, placement, and aesthetic requirements of this
chapter provided the design otherwise serves the goals of this chapter. (If the
municipality initially adopts a design manual: the initial form of the design
manual is attached to Ordinance 2021-018 as Exhibit B. The design manual may be
amended from time to time by way of a duly enacted resolution.).
   (B)   Maximum size of permitted use.
      (1)   New small wireless facilities (including any related antenna) in
the ROW may not extend more than ten feet above an existing pole in place as of
the effective date of this chapter, or for small wireless facilities (including
any related antenna) on a new pole, above the height permitted for a new pole
pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Each new, modified, or replacement pole installed in the ROW may
not exceed the greater of ten feet in height above the tallest existing pole in
place as of the effective date of this chapter located within 500 feet of the
new, modified, or replacement pole in the same ROW, or 50 feet above ground
level, except in design districts and historic districts where the height limit
is 40 feet above ground level.
      (3)   For applications to place poles in residential zoning districts to
deploy small wireless facilities, the municipality may propose an alternate
location in the ROW within 150 feet of the location set forth in the
application, and the wireless provider shall use the municipality's proposed
alternate location unless the location is not technically feasible or imposes
significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has
made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of an engineer
licensed in South Carolina, and it shall provide a written summary of the basis
for such determination.
      (4)   Collocation is not allowed on a decorative pole less than 20 feet
in height.
      (5)   New poles are not permitted in a corridor where there are existing
poles that can be used, modified, or replaced to allow the proposed
collocation, unless the applicant can demonstrate that (A) it is not
technically feasible to use, modify, or replace such existing poles; or (B)
such use, modification, or replacement would impose significant additional
costs on the wireless provider, as certified by the wireless provider in good
faith and based on the assessment of an engineer licensed in South Carolina
along with a written summary of the basis for the certification; or (C) a new
pole may be placed in a manner that will cause no more interference with the
ROW and will have no more of an impact on the overall appearance of the
corridor and on adjoining properties than would the use, modification, or
replacement of an existing pole.
   (C)   Supplemental review districts.
      (1)   Collocated small wireless facilitates and new, modified, or
replacement poles or support structures located in supplemental review
districts shall be subject to the compliant provisions (as defined in the SWF
Act) pertaining to design and aesthetic standards in the ordinance establishing
the supplemental review district(s) in addition to the requirements of this
chapter. In addition, the following rules shall apply within the supplemental
review districts.
         (a)   Underground districts.
            1.   A wireless provider shall comply with reasonable and
nondiscriminatory requirements that prohibit the installation of poles in the
ROW in an underground district where: (A) no less than 60 days prior to the
submission of the application, the municipality has required all such lines to
be placed underground; (B) poles the municipality allows to remain are made
available to wireless providers for the collocation of small wireless
facilities and may be replaced by a wireless provider to accommodate the
collocation of small wireless facilities in compliance with this chapter; and
(C) a wireless provider is allowed to install a new pole when it is not able to
provide wireless services by collocating on a remaining pole or support
structure. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use or replacement of
existing poles or support structures in underground districts for the
collocation of small wireless facilities subject to appropriate design and
concealment measures and a finding that such use or replacement does not
increase the height of the pole or support structure by more than three feet.
            2.   For any such application to install a new pole in an
underground district, the municipality may propose an alternate location in the
ROW within 150 feet of the location set forth in the application. The wireless
provider shall use the municipality's proposed alternate location unless the
location is not technically feasible or imposes significant additional costs.
The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in
good faith, based on the assessment of an engineer licensed in South Carolina,
and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination. For
small wireless facilities installed before the municipality establishes an
underground district, the municipality shall either permit wireless providers
to maintain the small wireless facilities in place or permit the wireless
provider to replace the associated pole within 50 feet of the prior location.
In the latter case, the wireless provider shall allow other communications
service providers with attachments on the existing pole to place those
attachments on the replacement pole under the same or reasonably similar fees,
rates, terms, and conditions as applied to those attachments on the existing
pole.
         (b)   Historic and design districts. The municipality may require
reasonable, technically feasible, nondiscriminatory, and technologically
neutral design and aesthetic requirements, stealth requirements, height
limitations of no less than 40 feet, and/or concealment measures in a design
district or historic district. For applications to place poles in a design
district or a historic district to deploy small wireless facilities, the
municipality may propose an alternate location in the ROW within 150 feet of
the location set forth in the application. The wireless provider shall use the
municipality's proposed alternate location unless the location is not
technically feasible or imposes significant additional costs. The wireless
provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith,
based on the assessment of an engineer licensed in South Carolina, and it shall
provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
      (2)   This section may not be construed to limit a municipality's
authority to enforce historic preservation zoning regulations consistent with
the preservation of local zoning authority under 47 U.S.C. Section 332(c)(7),
the requirements for facility modifications under 47 U.S.C. Section 1455(a), or
the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (54 U.S.C. Section 300101 et
seq.), and the regulations adopted to implement those laws.
   (D)   Appeals, administrative adjustments, and variance requirements.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall be given authority to make field
based administrative adjustments considering the specific criteria in this
section and location factors. Appeals of administrative decisions and requests
for other variances from the provisions of this chapter, when strict
application would result in an unnecessary hardship or in the inability to
deploy needed small wireless facilities, shall be heard, and decided by the
Board of Zoning Appeals. An applicant seeking an approval to construct a new
decorative pole, pole, or support structure to collocate a small wireless
facility in an underground district shall demonstrate, including certification
through an engineer should staff find it necessary, that it has diligently
attempted to locate the proposed decorative pole, pole, support structure, or
small wireless facility outside of the underground district and that placement
of the decorative pole, pole, support structure, or small wireless facility
within the underground district is necessary to provide the needed wireless
coverage or capacity, and one or more of the following conditions exist
supporting an approval:
         (a)   No existing pole or support structure is located within the
location search radius or to the extent a pole or support structure is located
within the search radius, such pole or support structure:
            1.   Is not available for collocation under commercially reasonable
rates, terms, and conditions;
            2.   Cannot accommodate the collocation of the small wireless
facility and meet the technical requirements necessary to deliver adequate
wireless service coverage or capacity; or
            3.   Would require modifications exceeding the three-feet height
limitation imposed in division (C)(1)(a); or
         (b)   The only available option to deliver adequate wireless service
coverage or capacity in the search radius requires modifications to an existing
pole or support structure exceeding the three-feet height limitation imposed in
division (C)(1)(a) or the installation of a new pole or support structure for
collocation of a small wireless facility, or
         (c)   The applicant has demonstrated other circumstances that, in the
reasonable discretion of the applicable review body, warrant a variance.
      (2)   The applicant shall abide by the design, stealth, and concealment
treatments imposed as conditions of the approval.
   (E)   Existing supplemental review districts. (Supplemental review districts
approved by the municipality as of the effective date of this chapter are
listed in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 2021-018.). Nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit or otherwise limit the municipality from establishing additional
supplemental review districts, provided however, that facilities and structures
for which a permit was approved or deemed approved pursuant to this chapter
prior to the establishment of the additional supplemental review district
remain subject to the provisions of this chapter, including routine maintenance
and replacement of those facilities and structures as set out herein. If a
wireless provider voluntarily replaces such facilities in a manner that does
not comply with §
152.03(E), or if a wireless provider voluntarily relocates such facilities,
such replacement or relocation is subject to the then-existing provisions and
requirements of the additional supplemental review district.
   (F)   Decorative poles. Subject to the municipality's ability to deny an
application as set forth in this chapter, a wireless provider must be permitted
to collocate on or replace decorative poles when necessary to deploy a small
wireless facility.
      (1)   The municipality may require the collocation on a decorative pole
or the replacement of a decorative pole to reasonably conform to the design
aesthetics of the original decorative pole, provided these requirements are
technically feasible.
      (2)   For applications to collocate small wireless facilities on
decorative poles or to replace decorative poles to deploy small wireless
facilities, the municipality may propose an alternate location in the ROW
within 150 feet of the location set forth in the application. The wireless
provider shall use the municipality's proposed alternate location unless the
location is not technically feasible or imposes significant additional costs.
The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in
good faith, based on the assessment of an engineer licensed in South Carolina,
and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
   (G)   Repair of damage. A wireless provider shall repair all damage to the
ROW directly caused by the activities of the wireless provider in the ROW and
shall restore the ROW to its condition before the damage occurred. If within 30
calendar days after written notice the wireless provider fails to the extent
practicable in the reasonable judgment of the municipality to restore the ROW
to its condition prior to the damage in compliance with this division, the
municipality may, at the sole discretion of the municipality, restore the ROW
to such condition and charge the applicable party the reasonable, documented
cost of the restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed $500 provided; however,
that the wireless provider may request additional time to make such repairs,
and the municipality shall not unreasonably deny such a request. The
municipality may suspend the ability of the wireless provider to receive any
new permits from the municipality until the wireless provider has paid the
amount assessed for such restoration costs. The municipality shall not suspend
such ability of any applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in
escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT; OCCUPANCY AND USE FEES.
   (A)   Authority granted: no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the municipality authorizes an applicant to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter and does not create a property right
or grant any authority whatsoever to the applicant to impinge upon the rights
of others who may already have an interest in the ROW. The approval of the
installation, placement, maintenance, or operation of a small wireless facility
pursuant to this chapter neither constitutes an authorization nor affects any
authorization a wireless provider may have to provide a communication service
or to install, place, maintain, or operate any other communications facility,
including a wireline backhaul facility, in a ROW.
   (B)   Duration. Installation or collocation for which a permit is granted
pursuant to this chapter must be completed within one year of the permit
issuance date unless the municipality and the applicant agree to extend this
period, or a delay is caused by the lack of commercial power or by the lack of
communications facilities to be provided to the site by an entity that is not
an affiliate, as that term is defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(2), of the
applicant. Approval of an application authorizes the applicant to: (1)
undertake the installation or collocation; and (2) subject to applicable
relocation requirements and the applicant's right to terminate at any time,
operate and maintain the small wireless facilities and any associated pole
covered by the permit for a period of ten years, which may be renewed for
equivalent durations so long as the installation or collocation is in
compliance with the criteria set forth in this chapter and the permit. Any
conditions contained in a permit, including without limitation conditions
designed to reduce the visibility of the small wireless facility and associated
pole, or to make any portion of the same appear to be something other than a
small wireless facility, shall apply for the entirety of the permit term and
shall include a duty to maintain and replace components as necessary to ensure
continued compliance.
   (C)   Occupancy and use fees.
      (1)   The municipality hereby determines that the following rates for
occupancy and use are reasonable and nondiscriminatory. For each small wireless
facility, the municipality hereby imposes the following rates:
         (a)   One hundred dollars per year for each small wireless facility
collocated on any existing or replacement pole, including an existing or
replacement municipality pole; and
         (b)   Two hundred dollars per year for each small wireless facility
collocated on a new pole, other than a replacement pole, which $200 rate shall
cover the new pole and the small wireless facility collocated on it.
      (2)   These rates shall apply to a wireless provider regardless of
whether the wireless provider is subject to a business license tax that is or
may be imposed upon it pursuant to S. C. Code § 58-9-2220 or a franchise,
consent, or administrative fee that is or may be imposed upon it pursuant to
S.C. Code § 58-9-2230. These rates shall apply to a communications service
provider regardless of whether the communications service provider is subject
to a franchise fee that is or may be imposed upon it pursuant to S.C. Code §
58-12-330.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.07 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY IN
THE ROW.
   (A)   Widening, repair, reconstruction, and relocation. If, in the
reasonable exercise of police powers, the municipality requires widening,
repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway, or
relocation of poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities as a
result of a public project, a wireless provider shall relocate poles and
support structures that such wireless provider has installed in the ROW for the
collocation of small wireless facilities pursuant to this chapter at no cost to
the municipality if such poles and support structures are found by the
municipality to unreasonably interfere with the widening, repair,
reconstruction, or relocation project or the public project. If widening,
repair, reconstruction, or relocation is required as a condition or result of a
project by a person other than the municipality, such person shall bear the
cost of relocating such poles or support structures and any communications
facilities on such poles or support structures.
   (B)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The municipality
retains the right to cut or move any small wireless facility, pole, or support
structure located within the ROW as the municipality, in its reasonable
discretion, may determine to be necessary, appropriate, or useful in response
to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances permit, the
municipality shall notify the wireless provider and provide opportunity to move
its own small wireless facilities, poles, or support structures prior to the
municipality cutting or removing a small wireless facility, pole, or support
structure and the municipality shall notify the wireless provider after cutting
or removing a small wireless facility.
   (C)   Abandonment of facilities. The applicant or the person that owns or
operates the small wireless facility collocated in the ROW may remove its small
wireless facilities at any time from the ROW upon not less than 30 days' prior
written notice to the municipality and may cease paying to the municipality any
applicable fees and rates for such use, as of the date of the actual removal of
the small wireless facilities. In the event of such removal, the ROW shall be,
to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the municipality,
restored to its condition prior to the removal. If the applicant fails, to the
extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the municipality, to return
the ROW to its condition prior to the removal within 90 days of the removal,
the municipality may, at the sole discretion of the municipality, restore the
ROW to such condition and charge the applicant the municipality's reasonable,
documented cost of removal and restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed $500.
The municipality may suspend the ability of the applicant to receive any new
permits from the municipality until the applicant has paid the amount assessed
for such restoration the municipality shall not suspend such ability of any
applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an
adjudication of the merits of the dispute.
   (D)   Abandonment by inaction. At any point when a wireless provider fails
to pay any required fee or rate, and fails to respond within 60 days to a
written inquiry from the municipality as to whether the wireless provider
intends to continue to operate a small wireless facility or support structure,
for whatever reason, the small wireless facility shall be deemed abandoned and
the municipality may, at its sole option, remove all or any portion of the
small wireless facility or support structure, or take other action as
authorized by law, including recovery of actual costs incurred in removing the
small wireless facility or support structure.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.08 ATTACHMENT TO MUNICIPALITY POLES.
   (A)   Annual rate. The rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a
municipality pole shall be $50 per year. This rate is in addition to
reimbursement to the municipality for any expenses for make-ready work. The
municipality reserves the right to require a pole attachment agreement to
further define the terms and conditions of attachments to municipality poles.
The rates specified in this section shall not apply to poles owned, or operated
and accounted for as an asset of, a municipal electric utility.
   (B)   Make-ready. The rates, fees, terms, and conditions for make-ready work
to collocate on a municipality pole must be nondiscriminatory, competitively
neutral, commercially reasonable, and in compliance with this chapter.
      (1)   The municipality shall provide a good faith estimate for any make-
ready work necessary to enable the pole to support the requested collocation by
a wireless provider, including pole replacement if necessary, within 60 days
after receipt of a complete application. Alternatively, the municipality may
require the wireless provider to perform the make-ready work and notify the
wireless provider of such within the 60-day period. If the wireless provider or
its contractor performs the make-ready work, the wireless provider shall
indemnify the municipality for any negligence by the wireless provider or its
contractor in the performance of such make-ready work and the work shall
otherwise comply with applicable law.
      (2)   Make-ready work performed by or on behalf of the municipality,
including any pole replacement, must be completed within 60 days of written
acceptance of the good faith estimate by the applicant. The municipality may
require replacement of the municipality pole only if it demonstrates that the
collocation would make the municipality pole structurally unsound.
      (3)   The person owning, managing, or controlling the municipality pole
must not require more make-ready work than required to meet applicable codes or
industry standards. Fees assessed by or on behalf of a municipality for make-
ready work, including any pole replacement, must not include costs related to
preexisting or prior damage or noncompliance; exceed either actual costs or the
amount charged to other communications service providers for similar work on
similar types of municipality poles; or include any revenue or contingency-
based consultant's fees or expenses of any kind.
      (4)   A wireless provider collocating on a municipality pole is
responsible for reimbursing third parties for their actual and reasonable costs
of any make-ready work reasonably required by the third party to accommodate
the collocation.
   (C)   Municipal utilities excluded. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to affect the authority of a municipal electric utility to deny,
limit, restrict, or determine the rates, fees, terms, and conditions for the
use of or attachment to a pole owned, or operated and accounted for as an asset
of, a municipal electric utility.
   (D)   Non-exclusivity; non-discrimination. A person owning, managing, or
controlling municipality poles in the ROW may not enter into an exclusive
arrangement with any person for the right to attach to such poles. Subject to a
municipality's ability to deny an application as set forth in this chapter, a
municipality shall allow the collocation of small wireless facilities on
municipality poles on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions in compliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
§ 152.09 INDEMNIFICATION, INSURANCE, AND BONDS.
   (A)   Indemnity. With regard to small wireless facilities, poles, and
support structures that are subject to this chapter, the wireless provider
shall indemnify and hold the municipality and its officers and employees
harmless against any claims, lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses,
expenses, or fees, to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction finds
that the negligence of the wireless provider while siting, installing,
maintaining, repairing replacing, relocating, permitting, operating, or
locating small wireless facilities, poles, and support structures pursuant to
this chapter caused the harm.
   (B)   Insurance. The municipality may require a wireless provider to have in
effect insurance coverage consistent with this section, so long as the
municipality imposes similar requirements on other ROW users and such
requirements are reasonable and nondiscriminatory. The municipality may require
a wireless provider to furnish proof of insurance prior to the effective date
of a permit. The municipality may not require a wireless provider to obtain
insurance naming the municipality or its officers and employees as additional
insureds.
   (C)   Bonds. The municipality may impose bonding requirements for small
wireless facilities if the municipality imposes similar requirements in
connection with permits issued for other ROW users. Such bonds may provide for
the removal of abandoned or improperly maintained small wireless facilities,
including those that the municipality determines must be removed to protect
public health, safety, or welfare; restoration of the ROW; and recoupment of
rates or fees that have not been paid by a wireless provider in over 12 months.
Bonding requirements may not exceed $200 per small wireless facility. For
wireless providers with multiple small wireless facilities within the
municipality, the total bond amount across all facilities may not exceed
$10,000 and that amount may be combined into one bond instrument.
(Ord. 2021-018, passed 7-13-2021)
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: PUBLIC ART ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
154.01   Public art on private property
§ 154.01 PUBLIC ART ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose. This chapter is intended to establish the Goose Creek Art
Fund and to enact a process and procedures for the installation of original
works of art on private property and further the public interest by:
      (1)   Promoting cultural heritage and artistic expression in the city;
      (2)   Enhance the city's character and identity;
      (3)   Contribute to economic development and tourism;
      (4)   Add warmth, dignity, beauty, and accessibility to public spaces;
and
      (5)   Expand the experience and participation of citizens with the
community and visual arts.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this chapter:
      ADMINISTRATIVE FEES. Include art consultant, conservator, legal fees,
travel and out-of- pocket expenses.
      ALLOCATION FOR PUBLIC ART FUND. The percentage of the construction costs
which are set aside for the city's public art program in lieu of incorporating
public art into the build.
      ARTIST. Shall mean an individual who creates original art and is
recognized by professional peers and critics as a professional practitioner of
the visual craft, literary, musical, conceptual or performing arts, as judged
by the quality of that practitioner's body of work and experience.
      ARTWORK. Includes but is not limited to paintings, drawings, murals in
any media, stained glass, statues, bas-relief or other sculptures, and any
creation under "new genres" as defined herein; environmental artworks or public
spaces; monuments, fountains, arches or other structures intended for ornament
or commemoration; integrated and functional architectural, video and other
media-based elements designed by a qualified artist. For projects that involve
no structures, artwork may include a combination of landscape design, natural
and manufactured materials including but not limited to rocks, fountains,
reflecting pools, sculptures, screens, benches, and other types of street
furniture, provided they have been designed by a qualified artist.
      DESIGN FEES. Include but are not limited to those fees paid to an artist,
architect, structural engineer or an appropriate party for the development of a
design concept and the preparation of construction drawings. Design fees are
separate and apart from the cost of the fabrication and installation of an
artwork.
      PERFORMING ARTS. Performances presented by professional or amateur
performers, including theater performance (any form of dramatic presentation,
spoken or silent); musical theater/opera (any dramatic performance of which
music is an integral part); dance (any form of rhythmical movement); music or
concert (any musical performance with live musicians and/or singers).
      PERMANENT INSTALLATION. Artwork designed and fabricated to remain
installed for one or more years.
      PUBLIC ART. Shall mean publicly accessibly original art that enriches the
city and evokes meaning. It may include permanent visual art, performances,
installations, events and other temporary works, preservation or restoration of
unique architectural features, ornamentation or details. It may also include
the artist-designed infrastructure and structures themselves. Public art should
consider the site, its context and audience. Public art may possess functional
as well as aesthetic qualities; it may be integrated into the site or a
discrete work.
      PUBLIC ART SIZE CATEGORIES. Small and large art pieces are defined as
follows:
         (a)    Small public art piece. A small public art piece is a public
art piece where the sum of the height, width and depth of the object is no more
than eight feet. A small public art piece alsoincludes a mural where the area
of the mural face is no more than 200 square feet. Refer to division (F) of
this section for other qualifying pieces.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84f7a54a4610b58667ca51b99c3b48a7774516f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1931.png]
Figure 1: Example of a small public art piece.
         (b)    Large public art piece. A large public art piece is a public
art piece where the sum of the height, width and depth is at least nine feet. A
large public art piece also where the area of the mural face is at least 201
square feet. includes a mural where the area of the mural face is at least 201
square feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84f7a54a4610b58667ca51b99c3b48a7774516f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1933.png]
Figure 2: Example of a large public art piece
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84f7a54a4610b58667ca51b99c3b48a7774516f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1935.png]
Figure 3: Example of a sculpture that would be defined as a large public art
piece.
      TEMPORARY INSTALLATION. Artwork designed and fabricated to remain
installed for less than one year.
   (C)   Goose Creek Art Fund created. There is hereby created a fund to be
known as the "Goose Creek Art Fund" (hereinafter "Art Fund") to account for
fees paid pursuant to this chapter. The Art Fund shall be used solely:
      (1)   For the design fees, acquisition, commission, installation,
improvement, relocation, conservation, utility charges, insurance of artwork
acquired, and administrative fees or funded by the city, either permanent or
temporary, through the Goose Creek Public Art Program;
      (2)   To sponsor or support the performing arts;
      (3)   For the acquisition and improvement of real property for the
purpose of displaying artwork or conducting performing arts activities, which
has been or may be approved by the city; and
      (4)   Other city-produced cultural programs pursuant to the requirements
of this chapter.
      (5)   If real property purchased with monies from the Goose Creek Art
Fund is subsequently sold, the proceeds from the sale shall be returned to the
Art Fund.
   (D)   Developments subject to provisions of division (E) public art
requirements.
      (1)   All new residential development projects of 100 or more units, all
commercial and all public building development projects, with a construction
valuation (as reflected in the building permit documents) of $500,000 or more
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. This figure excludes land
acquisition costs.
         (a)   For multi-family developments, the threshold is based on the
construction valuation of one apartment building.
         (b)   For townhome developments, the threshold is based on the
construction valuation of the largest number of attached dwellings in the
development.
      (2)   All remodeling of existing commercial and public buildings shall be
subject to the provisions of this chapter when remodeling has a construction
valuation (as reflected in the building permit documents) of $250,000 or more,
excluding rehabilitation due to an act of nature.
      (3)   Developments and projects that are using the Low-Income Housing Tax
Credit (LIHTC) through the State of South Carolina and senior citizen housing
shall be exempted from the requirements of this section for as long as it is
used for that purpose.
      (4)   Multiple building permits issued within a three-year period for a
single project shall be considered in the aggregate in determining developments
subjected to this provision.
   (E)   Public art requirements. All public art installed on property within
the City of Goose Creek shall meet the following additional requirements. The
intent of these requirements is to ensure that the public art required on
property is of high quality and durability and will promote the objectives
stated in division (A). The following requirements are intended to require that
private developers invest time, effort and money into the public art displayed
on their sites, recognizing that the art will not only become integral, lasting
components of the city, but will be intrinsic value to their developments.
      (1)   The public art shall be created by an artist as defined above.
      (2)   No public art shall be installed without the final authorization of
the Goose Creek Cultural Arts Commission.
      (3)   The public art shall be constructed of high-quality, durable and
weather-resistant materials. The public art shall be designed to maintain its
structural and artistic quality for a period of at least ten years
notwithstanding the effects of the local climate and weather conditions. The
public art shall be maintained in a neat and attractive manner and shall be
kept free of dirt, rust and graffiti. In the event that the public art
deteriorates to a point where it loses its artistic and/or aesthetic appeal (as
determined by the Cultural Arts Commission) and cannot be restored or repaired
by the owner/developer, the owner/developer shall replace the public art with
an equivalent piece of public art in accordance with the requirements of this
section.
      (4)   The public art shall reflect a high level of artistic and aesthetic
quality as reflected by the artistic skill and aesthetic principles employed in
its creation.
      (5)   The public art shall be designed to be compatible with the
immediate environment of the site, particularly in regard to size, scale,
materials used, location on the site, etc. The intent of this requirement is
that the public art should enhance the aesthetic quality of the property rather
than detract from it.
      (6)   The public art shall be situated on the property in such a way that
it is readily visible to the public from a required sidewalk or "space open to
the public" as well as to patrons/employees of the uses on the property.
      (7)   The materials, textures, colors and design employed in the public
art shall be appropriate to the expression of the design concept.
      (8)   The city may consider the installation of public art and, at the
same time, wishes to prevent the proliferation of off-site commercial signs.
The city's public art regulations allow for commercial advertising murals only
on the site where the business is located.
      (9)   The public art must not create a hazard to the health, safety, or
welfare of the public or otherwise create a nuisance.
      (10)   In order to ensure that the public art required by this section is
of high quality and proportional to the scope and scale of the development, the
owner/developer shall:
         (a)   Submit a proposal to and receive approval from the Cultural Arts
Commission regarding the public art to be installed on the property. The
proposal shall provide a general description of the art that is proposed to be
installed on the property, a preliminary design of the proposed art (where
practicable), the name and credentials of the artist(s) who will be creating
the art, the proposed location of the art on the property, a description of the
dimensions, location, materials, colors to be employed in the creation of the
art, and an estimate of the cost of creating the art; and
         (b)   Invest an amount of money in the design, creation and
installation of public art on the subject property that is equal to or greater
than 1% of the construction valuation costs (as reflected in the building
permit documents) up to $20,000 of the proposed development activity on the
property and provide documentation to the city verifying the amount spent on
such public art; or
         (c)   If the owner/developer of the property subject to the provisions
of this chapter does not wish to install public art on its property, the owner/
developer may, in lieu of such requirement, donate to the Goose Creek Art Fund
an amount equal to 1% of the total construction valuation costs (as reflected
in the building permit documents) up to $20,000 of the proposed development on
the property. Any funds contributed to the Goose Creek Art Fund in accordance
with this division shall be used exclusively for the creation and installation
of public art as outlined in division (C) of this section, Goose Creek Art Fund
Created; or
         (d)   A combination of divisions (b) and (c) totaling 1% of the total
projected construction valuation costs up to $20,000.
         (e)   If the owner/developer chooses to incorporate public art in the
development, as described in this section, they are encouraged to mix in small
and large public art pieces where appropriate.
   (F)   Other qualifying small public art pieces. The following qualify as a
public art piece if the following are met:
      (1)   Benches. Benches qualify as a small public art piece if they are
permanently affixed to the
ground, accessible to the public during regular business hours, and incorporate
two or more of the following design elements: curved or looping metalwork;
lights; custom concrete or woodwork; sculpture; over-scaled design; or wording
formed by the structural design of the bench. Any wording formed cannot be of a
commercial nature as outlined in this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84f7a54a4610b58667ca51b99c3b48a7774516f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1937.png]
Figure 4: Examples of benches that could qualify as a small public art piece.
      (2)    Bike racks. Bike racks qualify as a small public art piece if they
are permanently affixed to the ground, have capacity to collectively
accommodate at least five bicycles, are accessible to the public during regular
business hours, and incorporate two or more of the following design elements:
curved or looping metalwork; lights; custom concrete or woodwork; sculpture;
over-scaled design; electric charging; or wording formed by the structural
design of the bike rack. Any wording formed cannot be of a commercial nature as
outlined in this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84f7a54a4610b58667ca51b99c3b48a7774516f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1939.png]
Figure 5: Examples of bicycle racks that could qualify as a small public art
piece.
      (3)    Raised planter boxes. Raised planter boxes qualify as a small
public art piece, if they are permanently affixed to the ground, contain 50%
coverage of living vegetation, are readily visible from a public right-of-way
or "space open to the public", and incorporate two or more of the following
design elements: lighting; sculpture; custom concrete or woodwork; water
features such as fountains or manmade streams.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84f7a54a4610b58667ca51b99c3b48a7774516f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1941.png]
Figure 6: Examples of raised planter boxes that could qualify as a small public
art piece.
      (4)   Fount ains. Fountains qualify as a small public art piece, if they
are permanently affixed to the ground, are readily visible from a public right-
of-way, or "space open to the public", and incorporate two or more of the
following design elements: lighting; sculpture; custom mosaic; or custom
concrete or woodwork.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/84f7a54a4610b58667ca51b99c3b48a7774516f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1943.png]
Figure 7: Examples of fountains that could qualify as a small public art piece.
   (G)   Procedure. The Planning and Zoning Department shall submit
applications for visual public art pieces to the Cultural Arts Commission (CAC)
on behalf of the owner/developer, who shall review the proposal, solicit public
input if necessary, and decide to approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application. Visual art installations that are temporary in nature, where they
are visible from the public right-of-way will require submission to the
Cultural Arts Commission via the Planning and Zoning Department; a special
event permit may also be required. Public art that is "performance art" will
not require submission to the Cultural Arts Commission; if it takes place on
city-owned property the organizer will be required to work with city staff.
   (H)   Violations.
      (1)   Nuisance. Any public art created and installed without city
approval pursuant to this chapter, or any public art that is not maintained in
accordance with the approved maintenance plan, is and shall be deemed
"graffiti" and is a public nuisance pursuant to §
137.01(B), subject to abatement pursuant to §
137.22 and the specific penalties and remedies enumerated herein, including
without limitation collection by lien or special assessment.
      (2)   Administrative citation. Any person who creates, allows to be
created, causes or otherwise installs any public art without first obtaining
city approval pursuant to this chapter is guilty of a violation and is subject
to the issuance of an administrative citation as follows:
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of a citation hereunder, the city shall
issue written notice to any person that violates this chapter.
         (b)   Giving that person 30 days from the issuance of the notice to
remove the mural created and installed without city approval. If the illegal
mural is removed in compliance with the city notice issued, no citation shall
be issued. If the mural is not removed within 30 days, an administrative
citation shall be issued with a fine in the amount of $500.
         (c)   In addition to the penalty herein above provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
section, shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, abated as
provided by law, and each day that the condition continues shall be regarded as
a new and separate offense.
(Ord. 2023-015, passed 5-9-2023)
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD HAZARD CONTROLS
Section
   
155.01   General standards
   
155.02   Statement of purpose and objectives
   
155.03   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
155.04   Establishment of development permit
   
155.05   Compliance
   
155.06   Interpretation
   
155.07   Partial invalidity and severability
   
155.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
155.09   Executive Order 11988
   
155.10   Administration
   
155.11   Duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator
   
155.12   Administrative procedures
   
155.13   Provisions for flood hazard reduction; general standards
   
155.14   Specific standards
   
155.15   Map maintenance activities; requirement to submit new technical data
   
155.16   Standards for streams without established base flood elevations and
floodways
   
155.17   Standards for streams with established base flood elevations but
without floodways
   
155.18   Variance procedures
   
155.19   Legal status provisions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of South
Carolina has in S.C. Code Title 5 and Title 6, and amendments thereto,
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The special flood hazard areas of the city are
subject to periodic inundation resulting in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (C)   Furthermore, these flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health,
minimize property damage, and encourage appropriate construction practices to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that
uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction.
   (B)   Uses of the floodplain that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or that increase flood heights,
velocities, or erosion, are restricted or prohibited.
   (C)   These provisions attempt to control the alteration of natural
floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers involved in the
accommodation of flood waters, and to control filling, grading, dredging and
other development that may increase flood damage or erosion.
   (D)   This chapter prevents or regulates the construction of flood barriers
that will unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to
other lands.
   (E)   The objectives of this chapter are to protect human life and health,
to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood-blight
areas, and to ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area.
   (F)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to minimize damage to
public facilities and utilities, such as water and gas mains, electric,
telephone, and sewer lines, streets and bridges, located in the floodplain, and
prolonged business interruptions. Also, an important floodplain management
objective of this chapter is to minimize expenditure of public money for costly
flood control projects and rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding.
   (G)   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform
vital natural functions such as temporary storage of floodwaters, moderation of
peak flood flows, maintenance of water quality, groundwater recharge,
prevention of erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations,
recreational opportunities, and aesthetic quality. These functions are best
served if floodplains are kept in their natural state. Wherever possible, the
natural characteristics of floodplains and their associated wetlands and water
bodies should be preserved and enhanced. Decisions to alter floodplains,
especially floodways and stream channels, should be the result of careful
planning processes that evaluate resource conditions and human needs.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.03 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the City of Goose Creek, as identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study, dated December
7, 2018, with accompanying maps, on file with the City Clerk and Office of
Planning and Zoning, and other supporting data that are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon annexation, any special flood hazard areas identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study for the
unincorporated areas of Berkeley County, with accompanying map and other data,
are adopted by reference and declared part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.06 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of
the governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under state law.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions, shall prevail.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.07 PARTIAL INVALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this chapter is declared invalid, the remainder of this
chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in force.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
   (B)   Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, or by
any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter, or on any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.09 EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988.
   Executive Order 11988 (Floodplain Management), issued by President Carter in
1977, requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in or have
the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless there is
no practicable alternative.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of local floodplain administrator. The Director of
Planning and Zoning is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Adoption of Letters of Map Revision (LOMR). All Letters of Map
Revision (LOMR) that are issued in the areas identified in §
155.03 are hereby adopted.
   (C)   Development permit and certification requirements.
      (1)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the local
floodplain administrator, on forms furnished by him or her, prior to any
development activities. The development permit may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing: the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; and the location of fill materials, storage areas, and drainage
facilities. Specifically, the following information is required.
      (2)   A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour, or a
statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain, must be provided by the
development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within the
floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either the duties and responsibilities of the
local floodplain administrator of §
155.11, or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
155.14(M) and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations
and floodways of §
155.16. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of,
and certified by, a registered land surveyor or professional engineer. The plot
plan must show the floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, or the floodway identified pursuant to either the duties or
responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator of §
155.11, or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
155.14(M), and the standards for streams without estimated base flood
elevations and floodways of §
155.16.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §
155.03 or the duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator
of §
155.11, the application for a development permit within the flood hazard area
shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure will be floodproofed in accordance with the
non-residential construction requirements of §
155.14(B), the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure
will be floodproofed.
      (4)   Where base flood elevation data is not provided as set forth in §
155.03 or the duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator
of §
155.11, then the provisions in the standards for streams without estimated base
flood elevations and floodways of §
155.16 must be met.
   (D)   Where any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development, the application for a development permit shall include a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation, an
engineering study to demonstrate that the flood-carrying capacity of the
altered or relocated watercourse is maintained, and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
      (1)   When a structure is floodproofed, the applicant shall provide
certification from a registered, professional engineer or architect that the
non-residential, floodproofed structure meets the floodproofing criteria in the
non-residential construction requirements of §
155.14(B).
      (2)   A lowest floor elevation or floodproofing certification is required
after the lowest floor is completed. As soon as possible after completion of
the lowest floor and before any further vertical construction commences, or
floodproofing by whatever construction means, whichever is applicable, it shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the local floodplain
administrator a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, or
floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable, as built, in relation to mean
sea level. The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of, and certified by, a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer. Any work done prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder’s risk. The local floodplain administrator shall review the
floor elevation survey data submitted. The permit holder immediately and prior
to further progressive work being permitted to proceed shall correct
deficiencies detected by the review. Failure to submit the survey or failure to
make the corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stopwork order
for the project.
      (3)   Upon completion of the development, a registered, professional
engineer, land surveyor or architect, in accordance with state law, shall
certify, according to the requirements of §
155.10(D)(1) and (D)(2), that the development is built in accordance with the
submitted plans and previous pre-development certifications.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.11 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Review all development permits to assure that the requirements of this
chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
been received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required
by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (C)   Review permits to assure the following process is followed in the
event there are proposed watercourse alterations.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources, Land, Water, and Conservation Division, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   In addition to the notifications required prior to watercourse
alterations per division (C)(1) of this section, written reports of maintenance
records must be maintained to show that maintenance has been provided within
the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying
capacity is maintained. This maintenance must consist of a comprehensive
program of periodic inspections, and routine channel clearing and dredging, or
other related functions. The assurance shall consist of a description of
maintenance activities, frequency of performance, and the local official
responsible for maintenance performance. Records shall be kept on file for FEMA
inspection.
      (3)   If the proposed project will modify the configuration of the
watercourse, floodway, or base flood elevation for which a detailed Flood
Insurance Study has been developed, the applicant shall apply for and must
receive approval for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency prior to the start of construction.
      (4)   Within 60 days of completion of an alteration of a watercourse,
referenced in the certification requirements of §
155.10(D)(3), the applicant shall submit as-built certification, by a
registered, professional engineer, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Prevent encroachments within floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
155.14(G) are met.
   (E)   Cooperate with neighboring communities with respect to the management
of adjoining floodplains and/or flood-related erosion areas in order to prevent
aggravation of existing hazards.
   (F)   Notify adjacent communities prior to permitting substantial commercial
developments and large subdivisions to be undertaken in areas of special flood
hazard and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   (G)   Obtain and certify elevations and certifications.
      (1)   Obtain and review actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with administrative procedures outlined in §
155.10(D)(2).
      (2)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the floodproofing certification outlined in §
155.10(D)(1).
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered, professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the non-residential construction requirements outlined in §
155.14(B).
   (H)   Map interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this chapter.
   (I)   Prevailing authority. Where a map boundary showing an area of special
flood hazard and field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations for flood
protection elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table,
and the like) shall prevail. The correct information should be submitted to
FEMA as per the map maintenance activity requirements outlined in §
155.15(E).
   (J)   Use of best available data. When base flood elevation data and
floodway data have not been provided in accordance with §
155.03, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize the best base flood elevation
data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source,
including data developed pursuant to the standards for subdivision proposals
outlined in §
155.14(M), in order to administer the provisions of this section. Data from
preliminary, draft, and final Flood Insurance Studies constitutes the best
available data from a federal, state, or other source. Data must be developed
using hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirement of NFIP-approved model.
If an appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Pts.
67.5 and 67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (K)   Special flood hazard area and topographic boundaries conflict. When
the exact location of boundaries of the areas special flood hazards conflict
with the current, natural topography information at the site; the site
information takes precedence. When the lowest adjacent grade is at or above the
BFE, the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. The local floodplain administrator will maintain a copy of the
Letter of Map Amendment issued from FEMA in the permit file.
   (L)   Records maintenance. Maintain all records pertaining to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection.
   (M)   Annexations and detachments. Notify the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for
the National Flood Insurance Program, within six months of any annexations or
detachments that include special flood hazard areas.
   (N)   Federally funded development. The President issued Executive Order
11988, Floodplain Management in May 1977. E.O. 11988 directs federal agencies
to assert a leadership role in reducing flood losses and losses to
environmental values served by floodplains. Proposed developments must go
through an eight-step review process. Evidence of compliance with the executive
order must be submitted as part of the permit review process.
   (O)   Substantial damage determination. Perform an assessment of damage from
any origin to the structure using FEMA’s Residential Substantial Damage
Estimator (RSDE) software to determine if the damage equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   (P)   Substantial improvement determination. Perform an assessment of permit
applications for improvements or repairs to be made to a building or structure
that equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
start of construction. Cost of work counted for determining if and when
substantial improvement to a structure occurs shall be cumulative for a period
of five years. If the improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of
all costs associated with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first
permit, shall be utilized to determine whether “substantial improvement” will
occur.
   (Q)   The market values shall be determined by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The current assessed building value as determined by the County
Assessor's office, or the value of an appraisal performed by a licensed
appraiser at the expense of the owner within the past six months.
      (2)   One or more certified appraisals from a registered, professional,
licensed appraiser in accordance with the laws of South Carolina. The appraisal
shall indicate actual replacement value of the building or structure in its
pre-improvement condition, less the cost of site improvements and depreciation
for functionality and obsolescence.
      (3)   Real estate purchase contract within six months prior to the date
of the application for a permit.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.12 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the local floodplain administrator shall make as many inspections
of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according
to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In
exercising this power, the floodplain administrator has a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work order. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this section,
the floodplain administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The
stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.
The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits. The local floodplain administrator may revoke
and require the return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder
in writing, stating the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections. The local floodplain administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected. When the local floodplain administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law on the
property he or she owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
floodplain administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service, that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the flood damage
prevention ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the local floodplain administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel, and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the local floodplain administrator may issue
such order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building, or to remove fill, as
appears appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the floodplain administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within such period, not less than 60 days, the
floodplain administrator may prescribe; provided that where the floodplain
administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the floodplain administrator and the Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the floodplain administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in the discretion of the court.
   (J)   Denial of flood insurance under the NFIP. If a structure is declared
in violation of this section, and after all other penalties are exhausted to
achieve compliance with this section, then the local floodplain administrator
shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to initiate a
Section 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 action against the
structure, upon the finding that the violator refuses to bring the violation
into compliance with this chapter. Once a violation has been remedied, the
local floodplain administrator shall notify FEMA of the remedy and ask that the
Section 1316 be rescinded.
   (K)   The following documents are incorporated by reference and may be used
by the local floodplain administrator to provide further guidance and
interpretation of this chapter, as found on FEMA’s website at www.fema.gov:
      (1)   FEMA 55, Coastal Construction Manual;
      (2)   All FEMA technical bulletins;
      (3)   All FEMA floodplain management bulletins;
      (4)   FEMA 348, Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damage; and
      (5)   FEMA 499, Home Builder’s Guide to Coastal Construction Technical
Fact Sheets.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.13 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION; GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Development may not occur in the special flood hazard area (SFHA), where
alternative locations exist, due to the inherent hazards and risks involved.
Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new structures
cannot be located out of the SFHA, and that encroachments onto the SFHA are
minimized. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   Reasonably safe from flooding. Review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.
   (C)   Flood-resistant materials and equipment. All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with flood-resistant materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage, in accordance with Technical
Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 2008,
and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Minimize flood damage. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages.
   (E)   Critical development. Critical development shall be elevated to the
500-year flood elevation, or be elevated to the highest known historical flood
elevation (where records are available), whichever is greater. If no data
exists establishing the 500-year flood elevation or the highest known
historical flood elevation, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis that generates 500-year flood elevation data.
   (F)   Utilities. Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall
be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of the base flood plus one foot.
   (G)   Water supply systems. All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system.
   (H)   Sanitary sewage systems. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems, and discharges from the systems into floodwaters. On-site waste
disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them,
or contamination from them, during flooding.
   (I)   Gas or liquid storage tanks. All gas or liquid storage tanks, either
located above ground or buried, shall be anchored to prevent floatation and
lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (J)   Alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvement. Any alteration,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement to a structure that is in compliance
with the provisions of this section, shall meet the requirements of “new
construction” as contained throughout this chapter. This includes post-FIRM
development and structures.
   (K)   Non-conforming buildings or uses. Non-conforming buildings or uses may
not be enlarged, replaced, or rebuilt unless such enlargement or reconstruction
is accomplished in conformance with the provisions of this section. Provided,
however, nothing in this section shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of an existing building or structure located totally or partially
within the floodway, provided that the bulk of the building or structure below
base flood elevation in the floodway is not increased, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this section.
   (L)   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). A building must meet the
specific standards for floodplain construction outlined in §
155.14, as well as any applicable ADA requirements. The ADA is not
justification for issuing a variance or otherwise waiving these requirements.
Also, the cost of improvements required to meet the ADA provisions shall be
included in the costs of the improvements for calculating substantial
improvement.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.14 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard (Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-A30, V, and
VE) where base flood elevation data has been provided, as set forth in §
155.03, or outlined in the duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain
administrator, §
155.11, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. No
basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces, shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in division (D) of this section.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces, shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in division (D) of this section. No basements are
permitted. Structures located in A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of
elevation, provided that all areas of the structure below the required
elevation are watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered, professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in the floodproofing certification
requirements in §
155.10(D)(1). A variance may be considered for wet floodproofing agricultural
structures in accordance with the criteria outlined in §
155.18(E). Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of §
155.18(E) must meet the non-residential construction standards and all other
applicable provisions of this section. Structures that are floodproofed are
required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual exercise. The
local floodplain administrator must approve the maintenance plan and
notification of the annual exercise shall be provided to it.
   (C)   Manufactured homes. 
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a
flood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood
elevation, and must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions for residential construction in division (A) of this
section must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
elevated no lower one foot than above the base flood elevation, and must be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement in accordance with S.C. Code § 40-29-10 of the South Carolina
Manufactured Housing Board Regulations, as amended. Additionally, when the
elevation requirement would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or
less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced
piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36
inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the local floodplain administrator and
the local emergency preparedness coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements of elevated buildings
that include fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely
for the parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area
other than a basement, and that are subject to flooding, shall be designed to
preclude finished space, and to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
      (2)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed all of the
following minimum criteria.
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different walls, having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (b)   The bottom of each opening must be no more than one foot above
the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the opening.
         (c)   Only the portions of openings that are below the base flood
elevation (BFE) can be counted towards the required net open area.
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
   (E)   Hazardous velocity. Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in the
design of any foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for
debris flow exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five feet
per second), foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should be
considered so that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
   (F)   Enclosures below the lowest floor.
      (1)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (2)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be finished or
partitioned into separate rooms, must be void of utilities except for essential
lighting as required for safety, and cannot be temperature-controlled.
      (3)   One wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground fault
interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in the specific standards outlined in this section.
      (4)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions (A) through
(D) of this section should be of flood-resistant materials.
   (G)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
155.03, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. The following provisions
shall apply within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated, through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice, that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood. Such certification and technical data
shall be presented to the local floodplain administrator.
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision must be obtained upon completion of the
proposed development.
      (2)   If division (G)(1) of this section is satisfied, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
155.13.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of division (C) of this section and
the encroachment standards of division (E) of this section are met.
      (4)   Permissible uses within floodways may include: general farming,
pasture, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry, wildlife sanctuary,
game farm, and other similar agricultural, wildlife, and related uses. Lawns,
gardens, play areas, picnic grounds, and hiking and horseback riding trails are
also acceptable uses, provided that they do not employ structures or fill.
Substantial development of a permissible use may require a no-impact
certification. The uses listed in this division (G)(4) are permissible only if
and to the extent that they do not cause any increase in base flood elevations
or changes to the floodway configuration.
   (H)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle is “ready for highway use” if it is:
         (a)   On wheels or jacking system;
         (b)   Attached to the site only by quick-disconnect-type utilities and
security devices; and
         (c)   Has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either be on site for
fewer than 180 consecutive days, or be fully licensed and ready for highway
use, or meet the development permit and certification requirements of §
155.10, the general standards outlined in §
155.13(A), and the manufactured homes standards in division (C) of this
section.
   (I)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   A detached accessory structure or garage, the cost of which is
greater than $3,000, must comply with the requirements as outlined in FEMA’s
Technical Bulletin 7-93, Wet Floodproofing Requirements, or be elevated in
accordance with divisions (A) and (D) of this section, or dry floodproofed in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
      (2)   If accessory structures of $3,000 or less are to be placed in the
floodplain, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for any uses other than
the parking of vehicles and storage;
         (b)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood-damage
potential;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be installed in accordance with §
155.13(F);
         (f)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below base flood elevation in conformance with division (D)(2) of this
section; and
         (g)   Accessory structures shall be built with flood-resistant
materials in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, dated August 2008, and available from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are
acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   (J)   Swimming pool utility equipment rooms. If the building cannot be built
at or above the BFE because of functionality of the equipment, then a structure
to house the utilities for the pool may be built below the BFE, with the
following provisions:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for accessory structures in division (I) of
this section; and
      (2)   The utilities must be anchored to prevent flotation, and shall be
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   (K)   Elevators.
      (1)   Install a float switch system or another system that provides the
same level of safety necessary for all elevators, where there is a potential
for the elevator cab to descend below the BFE during a flood, per FEMA’s
Technical Bulletin 4-93, Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special
Flood Hazard Areas.
      (2)   All equipment that may have to be installed below the BFE, such as
counterweight roller guides, compensation cable and pulleys, and oil buffers
for traction elevators, and the jack assembly for a hydraulic elevator, must be
constructed using flood-resistant materials where possible, per FEMA’s
Technical Bulletin 4-93, Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special
Flood Hazard Areas.
   (L)   Fill. An applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative
to raising the building to meet the residential and non-residential
construction requirements of divisions (A) and (B) of this section, and that
the amount of fill used will not affect the flood-storage capacity or adversely
affect adjacent properties. The following provisions shall apply to all fill
placed in the special flood hazard area.
      (1)   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance
with the requirements in division (G)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits.
      (3)   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. A registered,
professional geotechnical engineer may use dredged material as fill only upon
certification of suitability. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps, and sanitary
fills are not permitted in the floodplain.
      (4)   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-
698, and its suitability to support structures certified by a registered,
professional engineer.
      (5)   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two horizontal to one
vertical. Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in
erosion.
      (6)   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage
problems on neighboring properties.
      (7)   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high
hazard areas.
      (8)   Fill will meet the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01,
Ensuring That Structures Built On Fill in or Near Special Flood Hazard Areas
Are Reasonable Safe from Flooding.
   (M)   Standards for subdivision proposals and other development.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage, and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in §
155.15 when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that generates
base flood elevations.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.15 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES; REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL DATA.
   The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) requires that flood data be
reviewed and approved by FEMA. This ensures that flood maps, studies and other
data identified in §
155.03 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data. The following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical or scientific
data reflecting such changes is submitted to FEMA as soon as practicable, but
no later than six months of the date such information becomes available. These
development proposals include; but not limited to:
      (1)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
      (2)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
      (3)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
      (4)   Subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
155.14.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with this section, prepared in a format required for a
Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map Revision, and submitted to
FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall also be the
responsibility of the applicant.
   (C)   The local floodplain administrator shall require a Conditional Letter
of Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
      (1)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
      (2)   Proposed development that increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
   (D)   Floodplain development permits issued by the local floodplain
administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (E)   Right to submit new technical data. The floodplain administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the local jurisdiction and may be
submitted at any time.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.16 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard (Zones A and V) established
in §
155.03, are small streams where no base flood data has been provided, and where
no floodways have been identified. The following provisions apply within such
areas.
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and new development shall be permitted within 100 feet of the
stream bank, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered, professional engineer is provided, demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (C)   If §
155.14(A) is satisfied and base flood elevation data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard ordinance provisions of §
155.13, and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with elevations
established in accordance with §
155.12(K).
   (D)   Data from preliminary, draft, and final Flood Insurance Studies
constitutes the best available data. Refer to FEMA Floodplain Management
Technical Bulletin 1-98, Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available
Data. If an appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1,
Pts. 67.5 and 67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (E)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source, one of the following methods may be used to determine a
BFE. For further information regarding the methods for determining BFEs listed
below, refer to FEMA’s manual, Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate
Zone A Areas.
      (1)   Contour interpolation.
         (a)   Superimpose approximate Zone A boundaries onto a topographic map
and estimate a BFE.
         (b)   Add one-half of the contour interval of the topographic map that
is used to the BFE.
      (2)   Data extrapolation. A BFE can be determined if a site within 500
feet upstream of a reach of a stream reach for which a 100-year profile has
been computed by detailed methods, and the floodplain and channel bottom slope
characteristics are relatively similar to the downstream reaches. No hydraulic
structures shall be present.
      (3)   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations. Perform hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine BFEs using FEMA-approved methods and
software.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.17 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
provided, but no floodway is identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS.
   (B)   No encroachments including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development shall be permitted, unless certification
with supporting technical data by a registered, professional engineer is
provided, demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any point within the community.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.18 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Establishment of appeal board. The Zoning Board of Appeals, as
established by the city, shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Right to appeal. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal
board or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the court.
   (C)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures, upon the determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (D)   Functionally dependent uses. Variances may be issued for development
necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependant use, provided the
criteria of this section are met, no reasonable alternative exists, and the
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damage and create no
additional threat to public safety.
   (E)   Agricultural structures. Variances may be issued to wet floodproof an
agricultural structure, provided it is used solely for agricultural purposes.
In order to minimize flood damages during the base flood and the threat to
public health and safety, the structure must meet all of the conditions and
considerations of division (H) of this section, this chapter, and the following
standards.
      (1)   Use of the structure must be limited to agricultural purposes as
listed below:
         (a)   Pole frame buildings, with open or closed sides, used
exclusively for the storage of farm machinery and equipment;
         (b)   Steel grain bins and steel frame corncribs;
         (c)   General-purpose barns for the temporary feeding of livestock
that are open on at least one side;
         (d)   For livestock confinement buildings, poultry houses, dairy
operations, and similar livestock operations, variances may not be issued for
structures that were substantially damaged. New construction or substantial
improvement of such structures must meet the elevation requirements of §
155.14(B).
      (2)   The agricultural structure must be built or rebuilt, in the case of
an existing building that is substantially damaged, with flood-resistant
materials for the exterior and interior building components, and elements below
the base flood elevation.
      (3)   The agricultural structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. All of the structure’s components
must be capable of resisting specific flood-related forces, including
hydrostatic, buoyancy, hydrodynamic, and debris-impact forces. Where flood
velocities exceed five feet per second, fast-flowing floodwaters can exert
considerable pressure on the building’s enclosure walls or foundation walls.
      (4)   The agricultural structure must meet the venting requirement of §
155.14(D).
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation (BFE), plus any required freeboard, or
be contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
155.13(F).
      (6)   The agricultural structure must comply with the floodway
encroachment provisions of §
155.14(G).
      (7)   Major equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected.
Such protection may include protective, watertight floodproofed areas within
the building, the use of equipment hoists for readily elevating contents,
permanently elevating contents on pedestals or shelves above the base flood
elevation, or determining that property owners can safely remove contents
without risk to lives, and that the contents will be located to a specified
site out of the floodplain.
   (F)   Considerations. In passing upon such applications, the appeal board
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified throughout this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage,
and the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development, and the relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (9)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges; and
      (10)   Agricultural structures must be located in wide, expansive
floodplain areas, where no other alternative location for the agricultural
structure exists. The applicant must demonstrate that the entire farm acreage,
consisting of a contiguous parcel of land on which the structure is to be
located, must be in the special flood hazard area, and no other alternative
locations for the structure are available.
   (G)   Findings. Findings listed above shall be submitted to the appeal
board, in writing, and included in the application for a variance.
Additionally, comments from the Department of Natural Resources, Land, Water
and Conservation Division, State Coordinator's Office, must be taken into
account and included in the permit file.
   (H)   Floodways. Variances shall not be issued within any designated
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result, unless a CLOMR is obtained prior to issuance of the variance. In order
to ensure the project is built in compliance with the CLOMR for which the
variance is granted, the applicant must provide a bond for 100% of the cost to
perform the development.
   (I)   Conditions. Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the
purposes of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter. The following conditions shall apply to all variances.
      (1)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a
variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create a nuisance, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and
the elevation to which the structure is to be built, and a written statement
that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk.
Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The local floodplain administrator shall maintain records of all
appeal actions, and shall, upon request, report any variances to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      (6)   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or other
development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Violations must be corrected in accordance with §
155.12(E).
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.19 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance. This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted March
14, 2017, and it is not the intention to repeal, but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued there under are reserved and may
be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention
ordinance of the city, enacted on March 14, 2017, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein, are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding building permits. Nothing herein contained
shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or designated use of
any building, structure, or part thereof, for which a building permit has been
granted by the Chief Building Inspector, or his or her authorized agents,
before the time of passage of this chapter; provided, however, that when start
of construction has not occurred under such outstanding permit within a period
of 60 days subsequent to passage of this chapter, the construction or use shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 7-11-2023)
CHAPTER 156: IMPACT FEE
Section
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Authority
   
156.03   Findings
   
156.04   Definitions
   
156.05   Supporting documentation
   
156.06   Jurisdiction
   
156.07   Application and exemptions
   
156.08   Determination of fees
   
156.09   Impact fee trust funds
   
156.10   Limitation on expenditures of funds collected
   
156.11   Credits/reimbursements
   
156.12   Appeal process
   
156.13   Refunds
   
156.14   Review
   
156.15   Termination of development impact fee
   
156.16   Liberal construction
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to as the “Development Impact Fee Ordinance
for the City of Goose Creek, South Carolina.”
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to and in compliance with the authority of
the South Carolina Development Impact Fee Act, S.C. Code Title 6, Article 9,
Chapter 1 (the “Act”), and is to be interpreted in accordance with such Act, or
as it may be amended in the future.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.03 FINDINGS.
   The City of Goose Creek City Council hereby declares that:
   (A)   Adequate general government, police, fire protection, public works and
parks and recreation facilities and equipment are vital and necessary to the
health, safety, welfare and prosperity of the city and its citizens.
Substantial growth and new construction is taking place within the city and is
anticipated to continue. This growth creates substantial need for new
infrastructure capacity. Meeting these needs is very costly; however, failure
to do so will result in an inadequate system of facilities and equipment to
accommodate anticipated demand. This would make the city a less desirable place
to live and do business.
   (B)   To the extent that future growth and new construction in the city
place demands on general government, police, fire protection, public works and
parks and recreation facilities and equipment, those demands and needs should
be met by shifting a portion of the capital costs for providing new capacity to
serve new development, which creates, in whole or in part, these demands and
needs.
   (C)   The Planning Commission recommended to City Council to adopt the
impact fee rates as defined by the City of Goose Creek Development Impact Fee
Study Report and Capital Improvement Plan dated June 26, 2018, with projects
eligible for impact fee funding from FY2019 – FY2028.
   (D)   This chapter is enacted to implement the findings and recommendations
of the City of Goose Creek Development Impact Fee Study Report and endorse the
list of capital projects eligible for impact fee funding in the City of Goose
Creek Capital Improvements Plan.
   (E)   The impact fees prescribed in this chapter are equitable, do not
impose an unfair or disproportionate burden on developers and new construction,
and are in the best interests of the general welfare of Goose Creek and its
citizens.
   (F)   New facilities or equipment eligible for development impact fee
funding will benefit all new development or redevelopment in city limits.
Therefore, it is appropriate to treat the entire city as one service area for
calculating, collecting and spending development impact fees.
   (G)   This chapter provides the procedures for timely processing of
applications for determination of appropriate development impact fees
applicable to all development inside city limits subject to the impact fees,
and for the timely processing of applications for individual assessment of
development impact fees, credits or reimbursements allowed or paid.
   (H)   The maximum allowable recreation impact fee determined in the City of
Goose Creek Development Impact Fee Study Report has been reduced by 54% for the
General Development Impact Fee Schedule summarized in Exhibit A, on file with
the city administration and incorporated herein by reference, setting the fees
at 46% of the maximum amount to provide a reasonable fee for residential
investment and to ensure that the impact fees collected do not exceed the cost
to provide capital facilities that accommodate new development.
   (I)   Property for which a valid building permit has been issued prior to
the effective date of this chapter shall not be subject to the updated
development impact fees.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply within this chapter consistent with the
provisions set forth in the South Carolina Development Impact Fee Act, or as it
may be amended in the future. Where terms are not defined, the definitions used
in the City of Goose Creek Code of Ordinances shall apply:
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING. Housing affordable to families whose incomes do not
exceed 80% of the median income for the service area or areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued for construction on or development of land.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Improvements with a useful life of five years or more,
by new construction or other action, which increase the service capacity of the
public facility. Public facility categories for the purpose of this chapter
include general government, police, fire protection, public works and parks and
recreation facilities and equipment.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN (CIP). A multi-year planning tool used to identify
capital projects and coordinate financing and implementation. The plan also
identifies capital improvements for which impact fees may be used as a funding
source.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate allowing the occupancy or use of a
building and certifying that the structure or use has been constructed or will
be used in compliance with the City of Goose Creek Code of Ordinances and all
other applicable regulations.
   CREDITS. Impact fee deductions allowed to a fee payer for eligible off-site
capital improvements funded by the fee payer.
   DEVELOPER. An individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
undertaking new development.
   DEVELOPMENT. Construction or installation of a new building or structure, or
a change in use of an existing building or structure, any of which creates
additional demand and need for public facilities (i.e., general government,
police, fire protection, public works and parks and recreation facilities and
equipment). A building or structure shall include, but not be limited to,
modular buildings and manufactured housing. DEVELOPMENT does not include
alterations made to existing single- family homes.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. A document that authorizes the commencement of a
development.
   DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE. A financial payment imposed as a condition of
development approval to pay a proportionate share of the cost for certain off-
site system improvements needed to accommodate future growth. DEVELOPMENT
IMPACT FEES (or IMPACT FEES) are collected by the city for general government,
police, fire protection, public works and parks and recreation facilities and
equipment.
   DWELLING UNIT. Shall include the definitions for DWELLING as follows:
duplex; group dwelling; group care dwelling; manufactured housing unit; multi-
family dwelling; single-family dwelling; and townhouse dwelling contained in
the City of Goose Creek Zoning Ordinance.
   FEE PAYER. Any person who, after the effective date of this chapter, seeks
to develop land by applying for the issuance of a building permit, or other
development permit, subject to development impact fees.
   FIRE PROTECTION IMPACT FEE. A payment of money imposed as a condition of
approval to pay a proportionate share of the cost for improvements to the fire
protection system identified to serve new development.
   MUNICIPAL FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT IMPACT FEE. A payment of money imposed as
a condition of approval to pay a proportionate share of the cost for
improvements to the municipal facilities and equipment system identified to
serve new development: police, fire, and government services associated with
managing growth (i.e., planning and development, public services, and the
administrative offices), and parks and recreation.
   OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS. Capital improvements located outside of the
boundaries of a development that are required to serve the development's
proportionate share of future year system demands and needs.
   PROPORTIONATE SHARE. The portion of system improvements costs for public
facilities determined in the City of Goose Creek Development Impact Fee Study
Report that reasonably relates to the service demands and needs of the
development.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Improvements to and/or construction of capital
improvements identified in the City of Goose Creek Capital Improvements Plan,
or the City of Goose Creek Development Impact Fee Study Report as described in
§
156.05 hereof. PUBLIC FACILITIES for the purpose of this chapter shall include
general government facilities and equipment (including administration; law
enforcement; fire protection; and public works) and parks and recreation
facilities and equipment.
   RECREATION IMPACT FEE. A payment of money imposed as a condition of approval
to pay a proportionate share of the cost for improvements to the recreation
system identified to serve new development.
   SERVICE AREA. A defined geographic area in which specific public facilities
provide service to development within the area defined.
   SQUARE FOOTAGE. The total floor space within the exterior walls of a
building not including space in cellars or basements.
   SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT. A capital improvement to a public facility which is
designed to provide service to a service area.
   SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT COSTS. The costs incurred for construction and
reconstruction of system improvements, including design, acquisition,
engineering and other costs attributable to the improvements, and also
including the cost of providing additional public facilities needed to serve
new growth and development. SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT COSTS do not include:
      (1)   Construction, acquisition, or expansion of public facilities other
than capital improvements eligible for impact fee funding that are identified
in the City of Goose Creek Capital Improvements Plan;
      (2)   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital
improvements;
      (3)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
      (4)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing capital
improvements to provide better service to existing development;
      (5)   Administrative and operating costs of the governmental entity; or
      (6)   Principle payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds
or other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of
the governmental entity to finance capital improvements eligible for impact fee
funding that are identified in the City of Goose Creek Capital Improvements
Plan.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.05 SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   This chapter is based upon the conclusions and recommendations
presented in the City of Goose Creek Development Impact Fee Study Report, and
City of Goose Creek Capital Improvements Plan, prepared consistent with the
provisions set forth in the Act. Both documents are on file in the city's Clerk
of Council Office and are incorporated into this chapter by reference.
   (B)   All development impact fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall
be used to implement any or all of the public facilities deemed eligible for
impact fee funding identified in the City of Goose Creek Capital Improvements
Plan as prioritized therein.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.06 JURISDICTION.
   A development impact fee shall apply to all new development or redevelopment
located within city limits, including those locations annexed by the city in
the future.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.07 APPLICATION AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of the chapter shall apply to all new development or
redevelopment within city limits for which a building permit or development
approval is required except for the following:
   (A)   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure that was
destroyed by fire or other natural catastrophe;
   (B)   Remodeling or repairing a structure with the same use of land that
does not result in an increase in the number of service units or place new
demand on general government, police, fire protection, public works and parks
and recreation facilities and equipment;
   (C)   Replacing a residential unit, including a manufactured home, with
another residential unit on the same lot, if the amount of demand for
facilities and services generated by the new residential unit does not
increase;
   (D)   Placing a construction trailer or temporary office on a lot during the
period of construction on the same lot;
   (E)   Construction of an addition to a residential structure that does not
increase the amount of demand for facilities and services generated by the same
use of land;
   (F)   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such as
a tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it is demonstrated clearly that the use
creates new demand for general government, police, fire protection, public
works and parks and recreation facilities and equipment;
   (G)   All or part of a particular development project if:
      (1)   The project is determined to create affordable housing; and
      (2)   The exempt development's proportionate share of system improvements
is funded through a revenue source other than development impact fees;
   (H)   Constructing a new elementary, middle or secondary school; and
   (I)   Constructing a new volunteer fire department.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.08 DETERMINATION OF FEES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The city Finance Department shall determine and collect all
development impact fees administered within city limits.
      (2)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, development impact fees
shall be charged to new development or redevelopment in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this chapter. The fees to be collected for a
development will be determined at the time of application for a building
permit. If the development is one that does not require a building permit, the
impact fee for the development will be determined at the time of development
approval. No building permit or development approval shall be issued for any
development requiring the payment of development impact fees until the fees
have been remitted to the city Finance Department, or in the case of affordable
housing, the appropriate financial guarantees have been filed with the city
Finance Director. Payment of such fees shall not relieve the developer from
obligations to comply with any other applicable city ordinances, regulations or
requirements prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   All monies paid by the fee payer pursuant to this chapter shall be
identified as development impact fees and promptly deposited in the appropriate
development impact fee trust fund described under §
156.09.
      (4)   For the purpose of calculating development impact fees, the use of
land types assumed in the General Development Impact Fee Schedule of this
chapter (i.e., Exhibit A, on file with the city administration and incorporated
herein by reference) shall be defined in accordance with the definitions
contained in the City of Goose Creek Development Impact Fee Study Report as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family. Detached and attached one-unit dwellings.
         (b)   Multi-family. All attached multi-family dwellings including
duplexes and condominiums.
         (c)   Commercial. All commercial, retail, educational, and hotel/motel
development.
         (d)   Office. All general, professional, and medical office
development.
         (e)   Industrial. All manufacturing and warehouse development.
      (5)   Payment of development impact fees according to the General
Development Impact Fee Schedule (i.e., Exhibit A, on file with the city
administration and incorporated herein by reference), or independent impact fee
calculation study as provided for in this section, shall constitute full and
complete payment of the new development's proportionate share of public
facilities costs.
      (6)   A developer may negotiate and contract with the city to provide
facilities or services in lieu of payment of development impact fees in
accordance with S.C. Code § 6-1-1050 of the Act.
   (B)   General government facilities and equipment impact fee formula.
General government facilities and equipment impact fees (including
administration, police, fire protection, and public works) collected within
city limits shall be in accordance with one of the following formulas:
         A        B       C = A x B D = C x 0.02   E = C + D  E/1,000
Land Use Cost Per Density Base Fee1 Admin Charge1, Total Fee1 Fee per sq. ft.
         Capita                     2
                                         D = C x
              A        B       C = A x B 0.02     E = C + D  E/1,000
Land Use      Cost Per Density Base Fee1 Admin    Total Fee1 Fee per sq. ft.
              Capita                     Charge1,
                                         2
Residential
   Single- $932     2.70    $2,517    $50      $2,567
family
   Multi-  $932     2.03    $1,888    $38      $1,926
family
Non-residential
   Commerci$289     2.00    $578      $12      $590       $0.59
   Office  $289     1.52    $439      $9       $448       $0.45
   Industri$289     0.90    $260      $5       $265       $0.27
1   Fee per dwelling unit (residential) or per 1,000 square feet (non-
residential).
2   Administrative charge of 2% for:
      (a)   Legal, accounting, and other administrative support; and
      (b)   Impact fee program.
   Administrative costs including revenue collection, revenue and cost
accounting, mandated public reporting, and fee justification analyses.
A      Cost per capita. The estimated cost per resident or worker to provide
public facilities and equipment.
B      Density. The estimated number of persons per dwelling unit or employee
space ratio.
C      Base fee. The cost per capita multiplied by the density assumptions.
D      Administrative charge. The assumed administrative charge of 2% for:
         (a)   Legal, accounting, and other administrative support; and
         (b)   Impact fee program administrative costs including revenue
collection, revenue and cost accounting, mandated public reporting, and fee
justification analyses.
E      Total fee. The sum of the base fee plus the administrative charge.
E/1,000   For commercial development, the total fee per 1,000 square feet of
development.
 
   (C)   Recreation impact fee formula. Recreation impact fees collected within
city limits shall be in accordance with the following formula:
 
              A               B       C = A x B D = C x 0.02   E = C + D
Land Use      Cost Per Capita Density Base Fee1 Admin Charge1, Total Fee1
                                                2
Residential
   Single- $249            2.70    $673      $13            $686
family
   Multi-  $249            2.03    $504      $10            $514
family
1   Fee per dwelling unit (residential) or per 1,000 square feet (non-
residential).
2   Administrative charge of 2% for:
      (a)   Legal, accounting, and other administrative support; and
      (b)   Impact fee program.
   Administrative costs including revenue collection, revenue and cost
accounting, mandated public reporting, and fee justification analyses.
A      Cost per capita. The estimated cost per resident or worker to provide
public facilities and equipment.
B      Density. The estimated number of persons per dwelling unit or employee
space ratio.
C      Base fee. The cost per capita multiplied by the density assumptions.
D      Administrative charge. The assumed administrative charge of 2% for:
         (a)   Legal, accounting, and other administrative support; and
         (b)   Impact fee program administrative costs including revenue
collection, revenue and cost accounting, mandated public reporting, and fee
justification analyses.
E      Total fee. The sum of the base fee plus the administrative charge.
E/1,000   For commercial development, the total fee per 1,000 square feet of
development.
 
   (D)   Determining general government facilities and equipment impact fees.
The amount of general government facilities and equipment impact fees
attributable to a specific development shall be determined through the
following process:
      (1)   Verify the type and number of new residential dwelling units or the
type and intensity of new non-residential square footage or other use of land
measuring criteria for which the building permit is being sought;
      (2)   Determine the applicable use of land category and impact fee per
unit set forth in Exhibit A, on file with the city administration and
incorporated herein by reference (as applicable); and
      (3)   Multiply the development impact fee rate for the specified use of
land category by the number of net new units or net new square footage within
the development (as applicable) and the average persons per household or
employee space ratio estimate (as applicable in the City of Goose Creek
Development Impact Fee Study Report).
   (E)   Determining recreation impact fees. The amount of recreation impact
fees attributable to a specific development shall be determined through the
following process:
      (1)   Verify the type and number of new residential dwelling units for
which the building permit is being sought;
      (2)   Determine the applicable residential dwelling unit category set
forth in Exhibit A (on file with the city administration and incorporated
herein by reference), as applicable; and
      (3)   Multiply the development impact fee rate for the residential
dwelling unit category by the number of net new units within the development
and the average persons per household estimate.
   (F)   Special cases. The city shall take the following special cases into
account when calculating development impact fees for a building permit
application:
      (1)   When an application for a building permit has been made that
contains two or more uses of land in any combination, including two or more
uses of land within a single building or structure, the total development
impact fee assessment shall be the sum of the products, as calculated above,
for each use of land unless an independent impact fee calculation is performed,
and approved for use by the City Administrator, or his or her designee,
consistent with divisions (A) through (E) of this section (as applicable).
      (2)   In the case of a change, redevelopment or modification of a use of
land which requires a building permit, and which is not exempted from
development impact fees under §
156.07, the impact fee calculation shall be based upon the net increase in new
or proposed use of land as compared to the existing or previous use of land.
      (3)   In the case of a demolition or termination of an existing use or
structure, development impact fees for future redevelopment shall be based upon
the net increase in development impact fees for the new or proposed use of land
as compared to the existing actual active previous use of land since its
original occupancy. Credit for the prior use shall not be transferable to
another location.
      (4)   In the case of relocating an existing use of land, development
impact fees shall be assessed to the relocated use at its new location. Future
redevelopment of the old location from which the use was removed will receive a
credit against development impact fees assessed equal to the impact fees that
would have been assessed against the relocated use. Credits shall not be
transferable to the new location.
      (5)   Before a building permit application may become eligible for the
provisions set forth in divisions (F)(2) through (4) of this section, a
developer shall provide reasonably sufficient evidence that a previous use of
land had been actively maintained on the site within 12 months of the date of
application for a building permit. Such evidence may include proof of utility
records, records for the use sought to be shown, business license records or
other documentation.
      (6)   Any claim of existing or previous use must be made no later than
the time for application of a building permit. Any claim made after such time
shall be deemed invalid.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.09 IMPACT FEE TRUST FUNDS.
   (A)   Development impact fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be
kept separate from other revenue of the city. There shall be one trust fund
established for each development impact fee category depicted in Exhibit A, on
file with the city administration and incorporated herein by reference: general
government and parks and recreation facilities and equipment. All development
impact fees collected shall be properly identified by property address noted on
the approved building permit and by the appropriate trust account.
   (B)   Any funds on deposit not immediately necessary for expenditure shall
be maintained in an interest-bearing account prior to expenditure on
recommended projects. Interest earned on development impact fees in deposit
must be considered revenue to the trust fund account for which income is earned
and must be subject to all restrictions placed on the use of development impact
fees pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.10 LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURES OF FUNDS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Eligible system improvement costs. Funds from development impact fee
trust accounts shall be expended only for the public facilities and system
improvements identified as eligible for impact fee funding in the City of Goose
Creek Capital Improvements Plan, incorporated herein by reference. No funds
shall be used for administrative or operating costs associated with imposing
any of the development impact fees. Eligible components of a public facility
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Design and construction plan preparation;
      (2)   Right-of-way acquisition;
      (3)   Construction of new facilities, structures, or amenities that
provide additional capacity;
      (4)   Purchase of new equipment (greater than $100,000 purchase price)
that provide additional capacity;
      (5)   Construction of new drainage facilities associated with capital
improvements;
      (6)   Purchase and installation of traffic signalization; and
      (7)   Principle payments, interest and other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness issued by or on behalf of the city for financing any or all
public facilities.
   (B)   Rationale nexus test. The city's Finance Director, or his or her
designee, shall make an annual report to the City Council and publish this
report for access by the general citizenry showing where development impact
fees have been collected and what projects have been funded with these
revenues. The Council shall consider this report and whether the fees are being
spent for the benefit of new development within city limits. If the Council
determines that this is not the case, then it shall adjust the City of Goose
Creek Capital Improvements Plan and other projected capital expenditures to
correct the condition.
   (C)   Expenditure of funds. Development impact fee funds shall be expended
in the order in which they were collected. The disbursal of such funds shall
require approval of the City Council, upon recommendation of the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (D)   Reimbursement. Impact fee funds not obligated for expenditure within
three years of the date that they are scheduled to be expended in the City of
Goose Creek Capital Improvements Plan shall be returned, with actual interest
earned, to the record owner of the property for which the fees were collected,
on a first-in, first-out basis.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.11 CREDITS/REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   A developer shall be entitled to a credit against development
impact fees assessed pursuant to this chapter, assuming the same discount rates
applied to maximum allowable impact fees presented in this chapter for the
various impact fee categories, for city-approved monetary or in-kind
contributions toward some or all of the public facilities included in the City
of Goose Creek Capital Improvements Plan that are eligible for impact fee
funding.
      (2)   Development impact fees shall not be imposed on a fee payer or
developer who has entered into a credit agreement with the city for certain
contribution, payment, construction or dedication of land up to the cash value
of the specific improvements identified within the agreement. Any difference
between total development impact fees due, by impact fee category, for the
development and the cash value of the executed credit agreement remain eligible
for collection pursuant to the rules and requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Any request for development impact fee credit or reimbursement
shall be submitted to the City Administrator prior to issuance of a building
permit.
   (B)   Application for credit agreement.
      (1)   The determination of the amount of any credit shall be undertaken
through submission of an application for credit agreement, which shall be
submitted through the city Finance Department for review by the City
Administrator, or his or her designee.
      (2)   The application for credit agreement shall include the following
information:
         (a)   The following documentation must be provided if the proposed
application involves a credit for any cash contribution:
            1.   A certified copy of the development approval in which the
contribution was agreed; and
            2.   Proof of payment (if already made); or
            3.   Proposed method of payment (if not already made).
         (b)   The following documentation must be provided if the proposed
application involves credit for dedication of land:
            1.   Drawing and legal description of the land;
            2.   The appraised fair market value of the land at the date a
building permit application is sought for the use of land, prepared by a
professional real estate appraiser who is a member of the Member Appraisal
Institute (MAI) or who is a member of Senior Residential Appraisers (SRA); and
            3.   A certified copy of the development permit in which the land
was agreed to be dedicated (if applicable).
         (c)   The following documentation must be provided if the proposed
application involves credit for construction:
            1.   The proposed construction documents of the specific
construction project prepared and certified by a duly qualified and licensed
engineer in the State of South Carolina;
            2.   The projected costs for the suggested improvements, which
shall be based on local information for similar improvements, along with the
construction schedule for the completion of said improvements. Such estimated
cost shall include construction or reconstruction of the project; the cost of
labor and materials; the cost of all lands, property, rights, easements and
franchises acquired; financing charges or interest prior to and during
construction and for one year after completion of construction; costs of plans
and specifications; surveys of estimates of costs and revenues; costs of
professional services; and all of the expenses necessary or incidental to
determining the feasibility or practicability of such construction or
reconstruction.
         (d)   Within 14 days of receipt of the proposed application for credit
agreement, the city Finance Director, or its designee, shall determine if the
application is complete. If it is determined that the proposed agreement is not
complete, the city Finance Director shall send written notification to the
applicant outlining the deficiencies. The city shall take no further action on
the proposed application for credit agreement until all such deficiencies have
been corrected or otherwise settled.
         (e)   Once the city Finance Director determines the proposed
application for credit agreement is complete, it shall be reviewed within 30
days by a committee of designated staff composed of the City Administrator,
city Finance Director, city Planning Director, and the department head for the
impact fee category under consideration (either the Recreation Director for the
recreation impact fee, the Fire Chief for the fire protection impact fee, the
Director of Public Works). Together, this group will be known as the
Development Impact Fee Credit Review Committee.
         (f)   If the application for credit agreement is approved by the
Development Impact Fee Credit Review Committee, a credit agreement shall be
prepared and signed by the applicant and the City Administrator. It shall
specifically outline the contribution, payment, construction or land
dedication; the time by which it shall be complete, dedicated or paid, and any
extensions thereof; and the dollar credit the applicant shall receive for the
contribution, payment or construction against development impact fees. Any
credit agreement shall be limited to the impact fee dollars owed for the
project, by the developer, for the impact fee category under consideration,
unless City Council decides to entertain a credit agreement in excess of fees
owed that may be transferred to another project of the same developer in the
same service area (see § 156.04 for definition of “service area”). The
agreement may also include provisions for rescinding the credit and issuing
stop-work orders if the dedication and/or work and/or construction are not
timely accomplished.
         (g)   A fee payer affected by the decision of the Credit Review
Committee regarding credits may appeal such decision pursuant to §
156.12(A).
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.12 APPEALS PROCESS.
   A developer shall have the following rights for appeal of development impact
fees imposed by the
city on their development pursuant only to this chapter:
   (A)   Administrative appeal.
      (1)   A developer may file an administrative appeal with the City
Administrator regarding the payment of development impact fees, independent
calculation of impact fees, or credits or reimbursements by filing a written
notice of appeal. Said notice shall be filed within 30 days of the decision
sought to be appealed. The filing of an appeal will immediately halt the
building permit application process, unless the developer posts a bond or
submits an irrevocable letter of credit for the full amount of the development
impact fees as calculated by the city to be due. All notices of appeal shall
include a full explanation of the reasons for the appeal, specifying the
grounds therefore, and containing any documentation that the developer desires
to be considered. The appeal shall contain the name and address of the
developer filing the appeal and shall state their capacity to act as a
representative or agent if they are not the owner of the property to which
impact fees or credits pertain.
      (2)   Within 30 days following receipt of the written notice of appeal,
the City Administrator will review the appellant's written report, supporting
documentation and departmental staff reports. The 30 day review period may be
extended if additional information is needed from the appellant in order to
render a decision. Upon completion of the administrative review, the City
Administrator will provide a written response to the appellant constituting a
final administrative determination.
      (3)   Any person desiring to appeal the final administrative
determination of the City Administrator regarding payment of development impact
fees or credits shall file a written notice of appeal to the City Council. Said
notice of appeal to City Council shall be filed with the Clerk of City Council
within 15 days following receipt of the final administrative determination.
Receipt shall be construed to have occurred when the final administrative
decision is deposited in the United States mail
postage prepaid to the person whose name and address is identified in the
original notice of appeal.
      (4)   The City Clerk of Council will schedule all impact fee appeals for
the first City Council meeting following ten days from receipt of the written
notice of appeal to the City Council. Postponements of the City Council appeal
date may be granted by the City Administrator if they are requested in writing
at least ten days in advance of the scheduled City Council meeting date.
      (5)   When an appeal is scheduled for oral presentation before the City
Council, the appellant and city staff shall each be given ten minutes at the
oral argument to present the appeal and to discuss the submitted written
record.
   (B)   Payment under protest. A fee payer may pay development impact fees
under protest. Payment under protest does not preclude the developer from
filing an administrative appeal nor is the fee payer estopped from receiving a
refund of an amount considered to have been collected illegally. A fee payer,
at its option, may also post a bond or submit an irrevocable letter of credit
for the amount of development impact fees due instead of making a cash payment
under protest, pending the outcome of an appeal.
   (C)   Mediation. City Council shall provide for mediation by a qualified
independent party, upon voluntary agreement by both the developer and the city,
to address a disagreement related to development impact fees calculated by the
city. Neither a request for, nor participation in, mediation shall preclude a
fee payer from pursuing other developer rights or remedies otherwise available
by law.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.13 REFUNDS.
   (A)   General provisions. Funds not obligated for expenditure within three
years of the date that they are scheduled to be expended in the City of Goose
Creek Capital Improvements Plan shall be refunded to the record owner of
property for which the impact fees were paid, with actual interest earned, on a
first-in, first-out basis. For the purpose of determining whether fees have
been spent or encumbered, the first money placed in a trust fund account shall
be deemed to the first money taken out of that account when withdrawals have
been made.
   (B)   Refund process.
      (1)   The owner of property eligible for a refund of one or more
development impact fee payments shall submit to the city Finance Director a
notarized sworn statement that the person is the current owner of the property
for which a refund is due, a certified copy of the latest recorded deed, and a
copy of the most recent ad valorem tax bill for the property.
      (2)   When a right to a refund exists, the city shall send a refund to
the current owner of record within 90 days after it is determined by City
Council that a refund is due.
      (3)   All refunds shall include the pro rata portion of the interest
earned while on deposit in the specific development impact fee trust account.
      (4)   A record owner of property for which one or more development impact
fee refunds are due has standing to sue for such refund pursuant to S.C. Code §
6-1-1020(D) of the Act if there has not been a good-faith effort towards a
timely payment of a refund pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.14 REVIEW.
   (A)   City Council shall be responsible for preparing and publishing an
annual report describing the amount of development impact fees collected,
appropriated and spent during the preceding fiscal year. This may be done as
part of the city's annual budget.
   (B)   The city's Planning Commission shall be responsible for a holistic
review and update of the City of Goose Creek Development Impact Fee Study
Report, City of Goose Creek Capital Improvements Plan in support of a
development impact fee study in Goose Creek, and the Development Impact Fee
Ordinance for the City of Goose Creek on the same review cycle as the City of
Goose Creek Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.15 TERMINATION OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE.
   Development impact fees for the City of Goose Creek shall be terminated
within 15 years after the effective date of this chapter, or when sufficient
fees have been collected to fund all of the projects eligible for development
impact fee funding that are identified in the City of Goose Creek Capital
Improvements Plan, whichever shall first occur, unless:
   (A)   City Council adopts a revised City of Goose Creek Development Impact
Fee Study Report or amends the City of Goose Creek Capital Improvements Plan
for a subsequent amount of time; or
   (B)   City Council adopts an updated Development Impact Fee Ordinance for
the City of Goose Creek pursuant to the substantive and procedural requirements
set forth in the South Carolina Development Impact Fee Act, as amended.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.16 LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to effectively
carry out its purpose in the interest of further promoting and protecting
public health, safety, welfare and convenience.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   City Council shall have the following remedies, which may be exercised
individually or collectively, for collecting development impact fees. The
failure to pursue any remedy at any time shall not be deemed as a waiver of
city rights to pursue any remedy at such other time as may be deemed
appropriate.
   (A)   Interest and penalties. The city may, at its discretion, add to the
amount of calculated development impact fees due prior to award of a
certificate of occupancy, reasonable interest and penalties for non-payment or
late payment of required funds. Penalties for unpaid development impact fees
shall be administered consistent with the city's code of ordinances, which
declares the violation a penalty subject to a fine not to exceed $500 or
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day of violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   Withholding certificate of occupancy. The city may withhold a
certificate of occupancy until full and complete payment has been made by the
developer of development impact fees due for the development.
   (C)   Lien. The city may impose a lien on the developer's property for
failure of the developer to pay required development impact fees in full.
   (D)   Other. The city may pursue the collection of the development impact
fees, including interest, by way of civil process in the Court of Common Pleas
for Berkeley County.
(Ord. 2023-018, passed 7-11-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   SALARIES
      
III.   ZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
02-004   5-14-2002   Authorizing the city to enter into a development agreement
 
TABLE II: SALARIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
87-01    1-15-1987   Modifying the salaries of the Mayor and City Council
                     members
20-021   9-8-2020    Modifying the salaries of the Mayor and City Council
                     members
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
85-  4-9-   Annexation A: Table of Parking and Loading Space Requirements;
02   1985   required spaces (1985 Code, § -)
85-  4-9-   Annexation B: Table of Land Uses (1985 Code, § -)
02   1985
85-  4-9-   Annexation C: Table of Accessory Uses (1985 Code, § -)
02   1985
85-  4-9-   Annexation D: City of Goose Creek Zoning Districts (1985 Code, § -)
02   1985
85-  5-14-  Amending zoning map
04   1985
95-  -14-   Amending Annexation A; adding a category for parking requirements
001  1995   for recreation and community centers
95-  12-12- Amending Annexation B: adding provisions
014  1995
96-  2-13-  Amending Annexation B: light industrial table
002  1996
97-  1-14-  Amending Annexation A: amending provisions
002  1997
99-  6-8-   Amending Annexation B: adding commercial activities
011  1999
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to 1985 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Cite Code Section
S.C. Cite                       Code Section
4-9-30                          50.002
4-9-40                          50.002
Title 5                         155.01
                                10.99,
                                31.037,
5-7-30                          35.03,
                                50.002,
                                94.01,
                                137.22
5-7-60                          50.002
5-7-80                          137.22
5-7-100                         31.043
5-7-110                         33.026
5-7-130                         31.074
5-7-160                         31.065
5-7-240                         31.042
5-7-260                         31.036,
                                31.080
                                31.036,
5-7-270                         31.081,
                                31.083
5-9-40                          31.038
5-11-20                         10.03
5-15-61                         37.07
5-25-20 et seq.                 33.055
5-25-110                        33.056
5-25-120 et seq.                91.27
5-31-20                         51.07
5-31-1110                       51.07
5-31-1130                       51.08
5-31-1140 et seq.               51.06
Title 6                         155.01
6-1-400 et seq.                 110.020
6-1-410                         110.011,
                                110.016
6-1-530                         112.05
6-1-720                         110.130
6-1-730                         110.130,
                                112.05
6-1-1020(D)                     156.13
6-1-1050                        156.08
6-4-10(2)                       33.122
6-4-20                          33.122
6-4-25, 1976                    33.121
Title 6, Article 9, Ch. 1       156.02
6-9-10 et seq.                  150.01
6-9-60                          150.20
12-6-3622                       112.05
12-37-250                       34.02
12-56-10 et seq.                34.05
12-67-100 et seq.               112.05
14-25-15                        36.01
14-25-25                        36.02,
                                36.03
14-25-35                        36.06
                                36.08,
14-25-45                        36.09,
                                36.32
14-25-55                        36.07
                                10.99,
14-25-65                        36.08,
                                36.10
14-25-85                        36.27
14-25-95                        36.33
14-25-105                       36.35
14-25-125                       36.55
14-25-165                       36.56
14-25-185                       36.58
16-3-610                        132.01
16-5-50                         130.02,
                                130.03
16-7-110                        132.11
16-7-120                        132.12
16-9-410                        130.10
16-9-420                        130.10
16-11-510 et seq.               131.019
16-11-520 et seq.               131.015
16-11-610                       131.081
16-11-650                       131.064
16-11-680                       131.082
16-11-740                       131.057
16-13-180                       131.062
16-13-230 et seq.               131.002
16-13-340                       131.080
16-15-130                       133.01
16-15-305 et seq.               133.06
16-17-220                       131.059
16-17-420                       132.05
16-17-430                       133.03
16-17-490                       133.05
16-17-530                       132.02 –
                                133.04
16-17-570                       130.08
16-17-690                       133.02
16-17-720                       130.01
16-19-10 et seq.                133.07
16-23-410                       135.04
16-23-460                       135.03
19-3-10                         10.13
Title 23, Section 31, Article 4 135.02
23-31-520                       72.12
23-31-520(A)                    96.04
23-35-10                        91.48,
                                91.49
23-35-20                        91.53
23-35-30                        91.52
23-35-60                        91.50
23-35-110                       91.54
24-13-410                       130.10
25-1-450                        35.03
                                31.060,
30-4-10 et seq.                 31.061,
                                110.060
36-142(a)(3)                    72.12
36-142(a)(5)                    72.12
                                110.002,
Title 38, Ch. 7 and 45          110.011,
                                110.016
38-7-20                         110.002
38-57-10 et seq.                33.064
38-57-10 – 38-57-210          33.062
38-57-210                       33.066
40-29-10                        155.14
Title 44, Ch. 53, Article 3     134.01
44-53-370                       134.02
47-1-10                         90.01
47-3-10                         90.01
47-3-40                         90.09
47-3-50                         90.04
47-3-410                        90.01
47-3-513 et seq.                90.09
47-3-540                        90.09
47-5-20                         90.01
47-5-60                         90.07
48-1-280                        137.22
Title 56, Ch. 5                 70.01
56-5-730                        70.02
56-5-800                        70.15
56-5-940                        70.16
56-5-1610 et seq.               71.12
56-5-1960                       130.06
56-5-2140                       70.29
56-5-2360                       130.06
56-5-2510                       71.06
56-5-3850                       130.06
56-5-4410                       70.28
56-5-5310                       70.20
56-5-5810 et seq.               71.12
56-7-80                         30.04
                                110.002,
Title 58, Ch. 9, Article 20     110.011,
                                110.016
58-9-2220                       152.03,
                                152.06
58-9-2230                       152.03,
                                152.06
58-11-850(D)(4)                 152.03
58-12-300(10)                   152.01
58-12-330                       152.03,
                                152.06
58-17-190                       130.14
Title 61, except 61-6-4720      111.02
61-4-10                         111.08
61-4-1750                       111.67
61-6-20                         111.01
61-6-100 et seq.                111.05
61-6-190                        111.04
61-6-920                        111.65
61-6-950                        111.66
61-6-1610                       111.25
61-6-1800                       111.68
61-6-4070                       111.45,
                                111.46
61-6-4075                       111.48
61-6-4085                       111.47
61-6-4160                       111.05
61-6-4220                       111.03
61-6-4230                       111.02
61-6-4300 et seq.               111.06
61-6-4310                       111.29
61-6-4500                       111.02
                                
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code 2008 Code
1985 Code 2008 Code
-         TSO, Table III
1-2       10.03
1-5       10.13
1-6       10.99
1-7       10.14
1-8       10.15
1-11      10.16
2-1       30.01
2-2       30.02
2-3       30.03
2-20      31.001
2-21      31.001
2-22      31.003
2-23      31.004
2-30      31.020
2-31      31.021
2-32      31.022
2-33      31.022
2-40      31.035
2-41      31.036
2-42      31.037
2-43      31.038
2-44      31.039
2-45      31.040
2-46      31.041
2-47      31.042
2-48      31.043
2-49      31.043
2-50      31.045
2-60      31.060
2-61      31.061
2-62      31.061
2-63      31.063
2-64      31.064
2-65      31.065
2-66      31.066
2-67      31.067
2-68      31.068
2-69      31.069
2-70      31.070
2-71      31.071
2-72      31.072
2-73      31.073
2-74      31.074
2-75      31.075
2-76      31.076
2-77      31.077
2-78      31.078
2-79      31.079
2-80      31.080
2-81      31.081
2-82      31.081
2-83      31.083
2-84      31.083
2-85      31.085
2-86      31.086
2-87      31.087
2-88      31.088
2-100     32.01
2-101     32.02
2-102     32.03
2-103     32.04
2-110     32.20
2-111     32.21
2-112     32.22
2-113     32.23
2-114     32.24
2-115     32.25
2-116     32.26
2-117     32.26
2-130     32.45
2-131     32.46
2-132     32.47
2-133     32.48
2-134     32.49
2-135     32.50
2-136     32.51
2-137     32.52
2-138     32.53
2-150     33.001
2-151     33.001
2-152     33.003
2-153     33.004
2-154     33.005
2-155     33.006
2-170     33.020
2-171     33.021
2-172     33.022
2-173     33.023
2-174     33.024
2-175     33.025
2-176     33.026
2-177     33.027
2-178     33.028
2-179     33.029
2-180     33.030
2-181     33.031
2-182     33.032
2-183     33.033
2-184     33.034
2-185     33.035
2-186     33.036
2-187     33.037
2-188     33.038
2-189     33.039
2-200     33.055
2-201     33.056
2-202     33.057
2-203     33.058
2-206     33.061
2-207     33.062
2-208     33.062
2-209     33.064
2-210     33.065
2-211     33.066
2-212     33.066
2-220     33.080
2-221     33.081
2-222     33.082
2-223     33.082
2-224     33.084
2-225     33.085
3-1       111.01
3-2       111.02
3-3       111.03
3-4       111.04
3-5       111.05
3-6       111.06
3-7       111.07
3-8       111.08
3-9       111.25
3-10      111.26
3-11      111.27
3-12      111.28
3-13      111.29
3-14      111.45
3-15      111.46
3-16      111.47
3-17      111.48
3-18      111.65
3-19      111.66
3-20      111.67
3-21      111.68
3-22      111.69
4-1       90.01
4-2       90.02
4-3       90.03
4-4       90.04
4-5       90.05
4-6       90.06
4-7       90.07
4-8       90.08
4-9       90.09
4-10      90.10
4-11      90.11
4-12      90.12
4-13      90.13
4-14      90.14
6-1       35.01
6-2       35.02
6-3       35.03
6-4       35.04
6-5       35.05
6-6       35.06
6-7       35.07
6-8       35.08
6-9       35.09
7-1       36.01
7-2       36.02
7-3       36.03
7-4       36.04
7-5       36.05
7-6       36.06
7-7       36.07
7-8       36.08
7-9       36.09
7-10      36.10
7-20      36.25
7-21      36.26
7-22      36.27
7-24      36.28
7-25      36.29
7-26      36.30
7-27      36.31
7-28      36.32
7-29      36.33
7-30      36.33
7-31      36.35
7-32      36.36
7-33      36.37
7-40      36.55
7-42      36.56
7-43      36.57
7-44      36.58
9-1       34.01
9-2       34.02
9-3       34.03
9-4       34.03
9-20      34.20
9-21      34.21
9-22      34.23
9-23      34.24
9-24      34.25
9-25      34.26
9-26      34.27
9-27      34.28
9-28      34.32
9-29      34.34
9-30      34.35
9-31      34.36
9-32      34.37
9-33      34.38
9-34      34.39
10-1      91.01
10-2      91.02
10-3      91.03
10-4      91.04
10-5      91.05
10-6      91.06
10-7      91.07
10-8      91.08
10-20     91.25
10-21     91.26
10-22     91.27
10-23     91.27
10-24     91.29
10-25     91.30
10-26     91.31
10-30     91.45
10-31     91.46
10-32     91.47
10-33     91.48
10-34     91.49
10-35     91.50
10-36     91.51
10-37     91.52
10-38     91.53
10-39     91.54
11-9      93.175
11-10     93.176
11-20     93.190
11-21     93.191
11-22     93.192
11-23     93.193
11-24     93.194
11-25     93.195
12-20     51.01
12-21     51.02
12-22     51.03
12-23     51.04
12-24     51.05
12-25     51.06
12-26     51.07
12-27     51.08
12-28     51.09
12-29     51.10
12-30     51.25
12-31     51.26
12-32     51.40
12-33     51.41
12-34     51.42
12-35     51.43
12-36     51.44
12-37     51.45
12-38     51.46
12-39     51.47
12-40     51.47
12-41     51.49
13-20     110.999
13-25     110.035 –
          110.045
13-26     110.046
13-37     110.999
13-40     110.080
13-41     110.081
13-42     110.082
13-43     110.083
13-44     110.084
13-45     110.085
13-46     110.086
14-1      130.01
14-2      130.02
14-3      130.03
14-5      130.04
14-6      130.05
14-7      130.06
14-8      130.07
14-9      130.08
14-10     130.09
14-11     130.10
14-12     130.10
14-13     130.12
14-14     130.13
14-20     130.15
14-21     131.002
14-22     131.015
14-23     131.016
14-24     131.017
14-25     131.018
14-26     131.019
14-27     131.020
14-28     131.035
14-29     131.036
14-30     131.037
14-31     131.038
14-32     131.055
14-33     131.056
14-34     131.057
14-35     131.058
14-36     131.059
14-37     131.060
14-38     131.061
14-39     131.062
14-40     131.063
14-41     131.064
14-42     131.080
14-43     131.081
14-44     131.082
14-50     132.01
14-51     132.02
14-52     132.03
14-54     132.05
14-55     132.06
14-56     132.07
14-57     132.08
14-58     132.09
14-59     132.10
14-61     132.11
14-63     132.12
14-70     133.01
14-75     133.02
14-76     133.03
14-77     133.04
14-78     133.05
14-79     133.06
14-80     133.07
14-81     133.07
14-90     134.01
14-91     134.02
14-92     134.03
14-93     134.04
14-94     134.05
14-95     134.05
14-96     134.07
14-100    135.01
14-101    135.02
14-102    135.03
14-103    135.04
14-104    135.05
14-110    136.01
14-111    136.02
14-112    136.03
14-113    136.04
14-120    137.01
14-121    137.02
14-122    137.03
14-123    137.04
14-130    137.20
14-131    137.21
14-132    137.22
14-133    137.23
14-134    137.24
Ch. 15    38.01
16-1      92.01
16-2      92.02
16-4      92.03
16-5      92.04
16-6      92.05
16-7      92.06
16-8      92.07
16-9      92.08
16-10     92.09
16-11     92.10,
          92.99
16-20     92.25
16-21     92.26
16-22     92.27
16-23     92.27
16-24     92.29
16-25     92.30
16-26     92.31
16-27     92.32
16-28     92.33
16-29     92.34
16-30     92.35
16-31     92.36
16-32     92.37
16-33     92.99
16-34     92.99
16-35     92.38,
          92.99
17-1      70.01
17-2      70.02
17-3      70.15
17-4      70.16
17-5      70.17
17-6      70.18
17-7      70.19
17-8      70.20
17-9      70.21
17-10     70.22
17-11     70.23
17-12     70.24
17-13     70.25
17-14     70.26
17-15     70.27
17-16     70.28
17-17     70.29
17-18     70.30
17-19     70.31
17-20     70.45
17-21     70.46
17-22     70.47
17-23     70.48
17-24     70.65
17-30     70.65
17-31     71.02
17-32     71.03
17-33     71.04
17-34     71.04
17-35     71.06
17-36     71.07
17-37     71.08
17-38     71.09
17-39     71.10
17-40     71.11
17-41     71.12
17-42     71.13
17-43     71.14
17-44     71.15
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord.  Date   Code Section
No.   Passed
85-02 4-9-   TSO, Table III
      1985
85-04 5-14-  TSO, Table III
      1985
86-21 8-12-  34.01
      1986
87-01 1-15-  TSO, Table II
      1987
88-06 7-12-  92.10,
      1988   92.99
89-07 7-11-  135.01
      1989
90-16 9-11-  71.17
      1990
92-09 11-10- 30.04
      1992
93-   4-20-  91.09
002   1993
93-   7-1-   132.13
004   1993
93-   8-30-  10.99
005A  1993
             90.01 –
94-   9-13-  90.05,
005   1994   90.07 –
             90.13
94-   10-11- 33.080,
006   1994   33.082
95-   -14-   TSO, Table III
001   1995
95-   12-12- TSO, Table III
014   1985
96-   2-13-   
002   1996   TSO, Table III
97-   1-14-  TSO, Table III 
002   1997
98-   7-14-  90.14
003   1998
99-   6-8-   TSO, Table III
011   1999
01-   3-13-  70.46
003   2001
01-   4-10-  132.14
004   2001
02-   5-14-  TSO, Table I
004   2002
             93.001 –
             93.011,
             93.025,
             93.026, 93.040 – 93.042,
             93.055 –
             93.058,
04-   4-13-  93.075,
004   2004   93.077 –
             93.086,
             93.100 –
             93.103, 93.120 – 93.127, 93.129,
             93.145 –
             93.147,
             93.999
06-   8-24-  135.01
019   2006
             50.001 –
             50.003,
07-   11-13- 50.005 –
017   2007   50.008,
             50.010,
             50.012
             110.035,
07-   11-13- 110.038 – 110.045,
018   2007   110.080 – 110.086,
             110.999
08-   1-8-   91.55
002   2008
08-   1-8-   71.16
003   2008
09-   8-11-  Adopting Ordinance
005   2009
09-   10-13- 37.01 –
006   2009   37.14
10-   1-12-  132.04
001   2010
11-   1-11-  111.08
001   2011
11-   4-12-  110.999
005   2011
12-   4-10-  110.100
002   2012
13-   1-8-   94.01 -
001   2013   94.16,
             94.99
13-   4-9-   93.177
002   2013
13-   6-11-  110.082
004   2013
13-   10-8-  110.110
009   2013
14-   12-9-  93.160 -
007   2014   93.162
             110.035 -
             110.041,
             110.043,
             110.044,
             110.055 -
             110.058,
17-   6-13-  110.060 -
015   2017   110.066,
             110.080,
             110.081,
             110.095 -
             110.101,
             110.115,
             110.130,
             110.999
             93.001 -
             93.011,
             93.025,
             93.026,
             93.055 -
             93.058,
             93.075 -
             93.086,
             93.100 -
             93.103,
             93.145 -
             93.147,
17-   7-11-  93.160 -
016   2017   93.162,
             93.175 -
             93.177,
             93.190 -
             93.195,
             93.999,
             95.001 -
             95.008,
             95.020,
             95.021,
             95.035 -
             95.043 ,
             95.055
17-   8-8-   112.01 -
018   2017   112.08
17-   10-10- 90.01,
021   2017   90.16
18-   7-10-  37.03,
013   2018   37.05,
             37.07
18-   10-9-  50.011; repealing 50.011, 50.030 – 50.032, 50.050 – 50.059, 50.075 – 50.077,
024   2018   50.090, 50.091, 50.105 – 50.110, 50.125, 50.126, 50.128 – 50.130, 50.999
18-   11-13- 34.05
026   2018
18-   12-11- 33.100 –
031   2018   33.102
             34.20 –
18-   12-11- 34.32,
032   2018   34.34 -
             34.39
19-   5-14-  Repealing Ch. 52, 52.01 – 52.06
003   2019
             150.01 –
             150.07,
20-   3-10-  150.20,
005   2020   150.25,
             150.26,
             150.99; repealing 150.01 – 150.07, 150.25, 150.26, 150.40 – 150.45, 150.99
20-   3-10-  34.22
007   2020
20-   8-11-  110.010 –
014   2020   110.021
20-   9-8-   31.060
020   2020
20-   9-8-   TSO Table II
021   2020
20-   11-10- 110.135
026   2020
2021- 1-12-  31.005
002   2021
2021- 6-8-   34.20 -
015   2021   34.40
2021- 7-13-  151.173, 151.190
017   2021
2021- 7-13-  152.01 -
018   2021   152.09; repealing 152.01 - 152.08
2021- 7-13-  92.35
019   2021
2021- 8-10-  33.102
022   2021
2021- 9-14-  70.29
023   2021
             31.060,
             31.064,
             31.065,
             31.067,
2021- 10-12- 31.072,
024   2021   31.074,
             31.082,
             31.089 –
             31.091,
             32.23,
             32.49
2021- 11-9-  34.06
026   2021
2021- 11-9-  110.001 –
028   2021   110.021
2021- 11-9-  37.03
029   2021
2021- 12-14- 96.01 –
032   2021   96.08
2021- 12-14- 72.01 –
033   2021   72.12,
             Ch. 72, App. A
             110.035 -
2023- 1-10-  110.045,
003   2023   110.055 -
             110.066
2023- 1-10-  90.09
004   2023
2023- 1-10-  31.060
005   2023
2023- 2-14-  37.08
006   2023
2023- 2-14-  135.02
007   2023
2023- 3-14-  90.01,
008   2023   90.06,
             90.16
2023- 5-9-   154.01
015   2023
2023- 7-11-  156.01 –
018   2023   156.16,
             156.99
2023- 7-11-  155.01 –
020   2023   155.19,
             155.99
2023- 8-8-   135.02
023   2023
2023- 8-8-   113.01 –
024   2023   113.12,
             113.99
2023- 11-14- 110.021
028   2023
2024- 3-12-  130.13
007   2024
2024- 5-14-  112.01 –
008   2024   112.08
2024- 6-11-  51.11
010   2024
2024- 10-8-  33.120 –
015   2024   33.122
2025- 1-14-  33.062
005   2025
2025- 2-11-  94.02
006   2025
            
 
