KERSHAW, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2024-037, passed 11-18-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Mayor                H. Mark Dorman
Council members
Bobbie Faulkenberry  District 1
Michael Cook         District 2
John S. Connell, III District 3
Harvey Truesdale     District 4
Danny Williams       At Large
Randy Seegars        At Large
                     
Town Administrator   John Douglas
                     
Town Clerk           Alicia DeBruhl
 
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1   How code designated and cited
   
1-2   Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-3   Severability of parts of code
   
1-4   Catchlines of sections, parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-5   Definitions
   
1-6   Rules of construction
   
1-7   General penalty; continuing violations
   
1-8   Liability of corporations, their agents and the like
   
1-9   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance
   
1-10   Amendments to code
   
1-11   Supplementation of code
   
1-12   Altering code
   
1-13   Prosecution where different penalties exist
   
1-14   Town seal
   
1-15   Code does not affect prior offenses, rights and the like
   
1-16   Rates, charges and fees established
   
1-17   Certain ordinances not affected by code
§ 1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and following chapters and sections
constitute and are designated as “The Code of Ordinances of Kershaw, South
Carolina” and may be so cited. They may also be cited as the “Kershaw Town
Code” or “the town code”.
§ 1-2 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this code, shall be
considered as a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-3 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Town Council,
that if any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall
be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code
since the same would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code
of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
§ 1-4 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS, PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   (A)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in capital
letters, a different type or underlined are intended as mere catchwords to
indicate or emphasize the contents of such sections, not as any part of the
section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of
such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
   (B)   The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this code
are not intended to have any legal effect and are merely intended to indicate
the source of matter contained in the section. Editor’s notes and statutory
references which appear after sections of this code or which otherwise appear
in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user and have no legal
effect.
§ 1-5 DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of this code and all other ordinances, the following
definitions shall be observed, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AND, OR. The term “and” may be read as “or” and the term “or” may be read as
“and” where the sense requires it.
   BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to, and including, a street when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   CLERK. The Municipal Clerk. However, the title may be used interchangeably
with the term “Clerk”, “Town Clerk” or, if one person holds both positions, the
term “Clerk/Treasurer”.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done and is
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last day
is a Sunday or legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   CORPORATE LIMITS. The legal boundary of the Town of Kershaw, South Carolina.
   COUNCIL, MAYOR and COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council of the
Town of Kershaw, South Carolina, as defined in S.C. Code § 5-11-20.
   COUNTY. The County of Lancaster.
   COURT. The Municipal Court of the Town of Kershaw.
   DAY. A period of 24 hours.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision or section of this code
appears requiring the head of a department to do some act or make certain
inspections, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department to
designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or
make the required inspection, unless the terms of the provision or section
expressly designate otherwise.
   DHEC. The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of the various animals, such as a horse or sheep,
domesticated so as to live and breed in a tame condition.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any vehicle of the Fire Department, Police Department and
ambulances and emergency vehicles of public service corporations as are
designated or authorized by the South Carolina Department of Transportation
(SCDOT) or by the Town Council.
   GENDER. See §
1-6 of this chapter.
   INTERPRETATION. In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, shall be held to the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion
of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where
any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter
than the general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the
greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   JUNK. Old iron, glass, paper or other waste that may be used in some form
again. The term JUNK also includes secondhand, or worn or discarded articles,
clutter, something of poor quality or of little meaning, worth or significance,
including abandoned automobile parts or abandoned vehicles.
   JUNKYARD. A yard or area used to store sometimes resalable junk.
   KEEPER and PROPRIETOR. Include persons, firms, associations, corporations,
clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant,
agent or employee.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals kept or raised for use or pleasure, especially farm
animals kept for use and profit.
   MAY. The act referred to shall be permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month, unless defined otherwise.
   MUNICIPALITY. May be used interchangeably with the term TOWN. The term
MUNICIPALITY means the entire area within the corporate limits of the Town of
Kershaw, South Carolina.
   NAME OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL OR OTHER OFFICER. Construed as though the words
“of the Town of Kershaw, South Carolina” were added.
   NON-TECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Terms and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical terms
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   NUMBER. See § 
1-6 of this chapter.
   OATH, SWEAR, SWORN. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the terms
“swear” and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the terms “affirm” and “affirmed”,
and vice versa.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part
of such building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property, as
defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The next before and the next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent
thereto, including all other properties owned or controlled by a public
authority.
   REAL PROPERTY and REAL ESTATE. Lands, tenements and the hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation,
and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of
returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place
where the person sleeps shall be deemed as his or her RESIDENCE.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. Territory contiguous to and including a street not
comprising a business district when the property on such street for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with dwellings or dwellings and
buildings in use with residences.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   S.C. CODE. The 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, as amended.
   SCDOT. The South Carolina Department of Transportation.
   SEAL. The corporate seal of the town, as may be adopted by the Council.
   SHALL. The act referred to is to be construed as mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline, or the lateral lines
of a roadway where there is no curb and the adjacent property line intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. A “mark”, when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STREET.
      (1)   Includes streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys,
lanes, bridges and all other public thoroughfares and means the entire width
thereof between abutting property lines.
      (2)   The term STREET also includes a sidewalk or footpath, unless the
contrary is expressed or unless such construction would be inconsistent with
the manifest intent of the Town Council.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Lancaster County Tax Collector.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TOWN. All the area lying within the corporate limits of the Town of Kershaw,
South Carolina.
   TREASURER. The Municipal Treasurer, if appointed separately from the Town
Clerk.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. Includes printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise defined.
§ 1-6 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In the construction of this code and all ordinances, the rules and
definitions set out in this chapter shall be observed, unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Town Council. The rules
of construction and definitions set out in this section shall not be applied to
any section of this code which shall contain any express provisions excluding
such construction, or where the subject matter or context of such section may
be repugnant thereto.
   (B)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and
meaning of the town council may be fully carried out.
   (C)   In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this code,
they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any
provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter
than another more general provision imposed by this code or other law, the
provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be controlling.
   (D)   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the
spirit and intent may require it, the following shall apply.
      (1)   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
      (2)   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females
also and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
      (3)   All words importing the present tense shall apply to the future
also.
§ 1-7 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In this section, the phrase “violation of any such provision of this
code or any ordinance” means any of the following:
      (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation
authorized by ordinance;
      (2)   Failing to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; and/or
      (3)   Failing to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made
or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or
by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation or order promulgated by any agency or officer thereof under
authority duly vested in him, her or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required, where no specific penalty is provided for the violation thereof,
the violation of any such provisions of this code, ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation or order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by
imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days, or both; provided, however,
that, no penalty shall exceed the penalty provided by state law for similar
offenses. Each day any violation of this code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   A violation of this code does not include the failure of a law
enforcement officer or town employee to perform an official duty unless it is
specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as
provided in this section.
   (D)   The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this code shall
not prevent the revocation or suspension of any license, franchise or permit
issued or granted under the provisions of this code.
   (E)   Violations of this code that are continuous with respect to time are a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalties that municipal courts may impose, see S.C. Code § 14-25-65
§ 1-8 LIABILITY OF CORPORATIONS, THEIR AGENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization, while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment,
shall, in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or
order of any such person.
Editor’s note:
   State v. Johnson, 255 S.C. 14, 176 S.E. 2nd 575 (1970) states that “one may
commit a crime through the agency of another”.
§ 1-9 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCE.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
§ 1-10 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to this code, which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion in this code. In the case of
repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof by subsequent
ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following, but not necessarily the exact language:
“that section            of the Town Code of the Town of Kershaw, South
Carolina, is hereby amended as follows: ...” The new provisions may then be set
out in full as enacted; the text and numbering system consistent with this
code.
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in this code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “... that the Kershaw Town Code
is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered            , which
section shall read as follows: ...” The new section shall then be set out in
full. The sections of this code may be renumbered to accomplish such intention.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 1-11 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Town Council. A
supplement to this code shall include substantive permanent and general parts
of ordinances passed by the Town Council or adopted by initiative and
referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in this code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into this code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, this code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of this code
which have been repealed shall be excluded from this code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of this code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in this code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this article”, “this division” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections             to             ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of this code which embody the substantive sections or the
ordinance incorporated into this code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into this code; but, in no
case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in this code.
   (D)   The publisher, editor or codifier shall omit all titles of ordinances;
all enacting, resolving and repealing clauses; all appropriation measures; all
temporary ordinances; all declarations of emergency; and all validity,
declaration of policy and construction clauses, except when the retention
thereof is necessary to preserve the full meaning and intent of the law.
Whenever any validity, declaration of policy or construction clause is omitted,
proper notation of the omission may be made.
§ 1-12 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner
whatsoever, which may cause the laws of this town to be misrepresented thereby.
§ 1-13 PROSECUTION WHERE DIFFERENT PENALTIES EXIST.
   (A)   In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable, or shall
be created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the town, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed.
   (B)   Not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for
the same offense.
§ 1-14 TOWN SEAL.
   The town shall have a common seal, to be in the custody of the Town Clerk,
which seal shall be affixed to all official documents of the town as may be
directed by the Town Council.
§ 1-15 CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or
any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this
code.
   (B)   The adoption of this code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or
permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in
violation of any ordinance of the town in effect on the date of adoption of
this code.
§ 1-16 RATES, CHARGES AND FEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges or fees necessary
for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code shall be
as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution or ordinance of
the Town Council, from time to time. Any rates, charges or fees established by
the town pursuant to the regulations or requirements established in this code
may be changed from time to time by the Town Council and such changes shall
both be considered an amendment to this code.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this code provides that a rate, charge or
fee shall be established by the Town Council, from time to time, and the amount
of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this code in any dollar
amount, then the amount of such rate, charge or fee shall be the most recent
and latest amount established, set or fixed by the Town Council by ordinance,
resolution or motion.
§ 1-17 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any town officer
or employee, unless superseded;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing employment
and personnel policies and procedures;
      (6)   Any right of franchise granted by the town to any person, firm or
corporation;
      (7)   Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing,
locating, relocating, closing, opening, widening, paving, vacating, limiting
access and the like any street or public way in the town;
      (8)   Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street
grades of any street in the town;
      (9)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (10)   Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective
for a stated or limited term;
      (11)   Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and
assessing taxes therefor;
      (12)   Any zoning or comprehensive plan ordinance or amendments thereto,
and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals or planning
commission, including joint commissions;
      (13)   Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any
subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
      (14)   Any ordinance or resolution developing and implementing drought
response;
      (15)   Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries
of the town or annexing property to the town;
      (16)   Any ordinance or resolution conveying property, or sales, leases
or contracts to sell lands;
      (17)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (18)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this code;
      (19)   Any ordinance regarding business and professional licenses;
      (20)   Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for
specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking
prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading
zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this code;
      (21)   Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political
subdivision; and/or
      (22)   Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not
of a general and permanent nature or which is referred to elsewhere in this
code as continuing in effect.
   (B)   Nor shall the repeal of any such ordinance or resolution be construed
to revive any ordinance, resolution or part thereof that has been repealed or
superseded by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed or
superseded by this code. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
in this code.
   Kershaw - Administration
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
         
III.   ORDINANCES
         
IV.   MEETINGS OF COUNCIL
         
V.   MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
         
VI.   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND PERSONNEL
         
VII.   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
         
VIII.   TOWN CLERK/TREASURER
         
IX.   MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY
         
X.   BUDGET AND FINANCE
         
XI.   PURCHASING
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
2-1   Town Council form of government established
   
2-2   Standard codes cited by reference; copies
   
2-3   Resolutions; generally
   
2-4   Same; adoption
   
2-5   Schedule of rates and fees established
   
2-6   Setoff Debt Collection Act administrative fee
   
2-7   Payments by credit card
   2-8—2-30   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   The Town of Kershaw was incorporated in 1976 and has adopted the Council
form of government.
Statutory reference:
   Council form of government, see S.C. Code § 5-11-20
   Powers conferred upon municipalities, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Powers of municipality vested in Council, see S.C. Code § 5-7-160
§ 2-1 TOWN COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the Code of Laws of South Carolina, 1976, the town form of
government shall be the Council form.
§ 2-2 STANDARD CODES CITED BY REFERENCE; COPIES.
   Standard codes, technical regulations, business license ordinances and
zoning ordinances may be cited in this code by reference and copies thereof
shall be made available by the Clerk for distribution or for purchase at a
reasonable price.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes and technical regulations, see S.C. Code § 5-7-
280
§ 2-3 RESOLUTIONS; GENERALLY.
   A voice motion by a member of the Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution which shall require no written record other
than a notation by the Clerk in the Council minutes. However, a resolution
proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same manner as an ordinance and
in such form as may be recommended as applicable by the Town Attorney, when
appropriate.
§ 2-4 SAME; ADOPTION.
   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on one reading unless a public
hearing may be scheduled by a majority of the Council members present.
§ 2-5 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND FEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Fees, rates or charges necessary for the efficient and orderly
maintenance of town services shall be included in the “Schedule of Rates and
Fees”.
   (B)   The schedule of rates and fees is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth in this code, and filed in the Town Clerk’s
office.
   (C)   All changes to the schedule of rates and fees shall be made by
ordinance.
§ 2-6 SETOFF DEBT COLLECTION ACT ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   (A)   The town may impose a collection cost of up to $25 to defray its
internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that are sought to be
collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt Collection Act, S.C.
Code §§ 12-56-10 et seq. This cost is hereby declared to be a collection cost
that arises by operation of law and shall be added to the delinquent debt and
recovered from the debtor.
   (B)   The town hereby declares that the administrative fee charged by the
Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection cost to the town,
which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
(Ord. 193, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 2-7 PAYMENTS BY CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Any office, department, agency, board or commission of the town
is authorized to accept payment by credit card, charge card and debit card
(hereinafter referred to collectively as “credit card”) Issued by any bank,
foreign lender, domestic lender or credit card bank as defined in the S.C. Code
§ 5-7-30. Payment by credit card may be for, but not limited to, taxes, license
and registration fees, court fines, costs and penalties, building permits,
filing fees, assessment against property, parks and recreation fees, rental
expenses, event admissions and garbage/trash/recycling collection fees.
      (2)   A surcharge or convenience fee shall be added to any credit card
payment in an amount not to exceed the transaction fee charged by the credit
card issuer or processor. Payment of the surcharge or convenience fee is not
refundable.
      (3)   With the approval of the Council, the Mayor or Treasurer is
authorized to enter into appropriate agreements with one or more credit card
issuers, credit card payment processors, or other appropriate parties as needed
to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payments, without the need for
competitive bidding to select such party or parties. Each agreement must
provide that it may be canceled without penalty at any time by the town upon
reasonable notice. No agreement shall exceed three years in term.
      (4)   No person or entity making payment by credit card shall be relieved
of liability for the face amount of the payment, except to the extent that the
town realizes full and final payment of the underlying obligation in cash or
its equivalent. If full and final payment is not make by the credit card issuer
or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, the underlying
obligation shall survive and the town shall retain all remedies for enforcement
which would have applied if the credit card transaction had not occurred.
      (5)   A town employee who accepts a credit card payment in accordance
with this section and any applicable policy, rule or regulation of the town
shall not thereby incur any personal liability for the final collection of such
payments.
      (6)   The Treasurer is authorized to establish policies, rules and
regulations governing the acceptance of payment for municipal services by
credit card and to disseminate them to all employees.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that credit card payments to the town that are made
over the internet are processed through a third party service provider, such
third party service provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity
theft prevention program in place that is applicable to such payments.
      (2)   Account statements and receipts for covered amounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed - -2020)
§§ 2-8—2-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
   
2-31   Composition, qualifications and election of Council; voting wards
established
   
2-32   Terms
   
2-33   Compensation
   
2-34   Mayor pro tempore
   
2-35   Emergency powers of Mayor
   
2-36   Oath required
   2-37—2-60   Reserved
§ 2-31 COMPOSITION, QUALIFICATIONS AND ELECTION OF COUNCIL; VOTING WARDS
ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be composed of a Mayor and six Council members,
all of whom shall be residents of the town and elected by the qualified
electors at an election as provided by Art. V of this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be elected at large.
   (C)   The Council members shall be elected as follows:
      (1)   Four members shall be residents of, and elected by, the qualified
electors of each of the four districts; and
      (2)   Two members shall be elected at large.
   (D)   The town is hereby divided into voting wards which are shown on a map
dated 2-27-1998, maintained in the office of the Town Clerk and open for public
inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 44, passed 3-9-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Methods of election for Mayor and Council members, see S.C. Code § 5-15-20
§ 2-32 TERMS.
   The Mayor and all members of the Council shall be elected for four years or
until their successors shall be duly elected and qualified.
(Ord. 115, passed 9-12-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Terms of office for Mayor and Council members, see S.C. Code § 5-15-40
§ 2-33 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Amount. The Mayor and each member of the Council shall be paid an
annual salary in an amount as determined from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   Increases. Increases in compensation shall not become effective until
the commencement date of the terms of two or more Council members elected at
the next general election following the adoption of the ordinance, at which
time it will become effective for all members.
   (C)   Actual expenses. The Mayor and members of the Council may receive
payment for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their official
duties, when supported by official expense vouchers.
(Ord. 2021-005, passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 2024-034, passed 10-21-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Salaries and expenses of Mayor and members of Council, see S.C. Code § 5-7-
170
§ 2-34 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   Election; term. Immediately after any general election of the Council,
the Council shall elect from its membership a Mayor Pro Tempore for a term of
not more than two years.
   (B)   Duties. He or she shall act as the Mayor during the absence or
disability of the Mayor.
   (C)   Serve as Mayor during vacancies. In case of a vacancy in the office of
Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve until a successor is elected.
Statutory reference:
   Mayor pro tempore, see S.C. Code § 5-7-190
§ 2-35 EMERGENCY POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   “State of emergency” defined. A STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to
exist whenever, during times of great public crises, disaster, rioting, civil
disturbances, catastrophe or for any other reason, public safety authorities
are unable to maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives,
safety, health, welfare or property.
   (B)   Proclamations. In the event of a state of emergency threatening or
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the citizenry or
threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of such a state of emergency and, in order more
effectively to protect lives, safety and property, to define and impose a
curfew applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the Council.
   (C)   Establishing curfews. The Mayor is further authorized and empowered to
limit the application of such a curfew to any area specifically designated and
described within the jurisdiction of the Council and to specific hours of the
day or night and to exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters,
doctors, nurses and such others as may be essential to the preservation of
public order and immediately necessary to serve the needs of the people within
the corporate limits.
§ 2-36 OATH REQUIRED.
   The Mayor and each member of the Council, before entering upon the duties of
their respective offices, shall take the following oath, to-wit:
   (A)   “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according
to the Constitution of this State, to exercise the duties of the office to
which I have been elected (or appointed) and that I will, to the best of my
ability, discharge the duties thereof, and preserve, protect and defend the
Constitution of this State and of the United States.”; and
   (B)   “As Mayor (Council member, Judge, police officer and the like) of the
Town of Kershaw, I will equally, fairly and impartially, to the best of my
ability and skill, exercise the trust reposed in me, and I will use my best
endeavors to preserve the peace and carry into effect according to law the
purposes for which I have been elected. So help me, God.”
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Municipal Judge, see S.C. Code § 14-25-15
   Form of oath, see Art. VI, § 5 of the S.C. Constitution
   Oath of office for Mayor and members of Council, see S.C. Code § 5-15-150
§§ 2-37—2-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: ORDINANCES
Section
   
2-61   Authority to promulgate
   
2-62   Enacting clause
   
2-63   When required
   
2-64   Annual codification required
   
2-65   Notice; contents
   
2-66   Form; introduced in writing
   
2-67   Introduction; public inspection
   
2-68   Original entered into ordinance book
   
2-69   Noting amendments or repeals
   
2-70   Enactment; six days between readings; emergency ordinances
   
2-71   Emergency ordinances to comply with state and local law
   2-72—2-100   Reserved
§ 2-61 AUTHORITY TO PROMULGATE.
   It shall be the duty of the Council to pass, from time to time, such
ordinances as, in its judgment, shall best promote the interests of the
citizens and property owners of the town.
§ 2-62 ENACTING CLAUSE.
   The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be, in substance, as follows:
“Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the Town of Kershaw, South
Carolina:            “.
§ 2-63 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Council shall act by ordinance in all matters required by law to
be done by ordinance, in order to:
      (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or ordinances, create, alter
or abolish any department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for the violation
thereof;
      (3)   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
      (4)   Grant, renew or extend franchises, licenses or rights in public
streets, or in public property, and close abandoned streets;
      (5)   Authorize the borrowing of money or the issuance of bonds;
      (6)   Levy taxes, assess property for improvements or establish charges
for services;
      (7)   Annex areas;
      (8)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands;
and
      (9)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in subsections (A)(1)
through (A)(8) above.
   (B)   In all other matters, the Council may act either by ordinance,
resolution or on motion, written or oral, which shall be recorded in the
minutes.
Statutory reference:
   Acts of Municipal Council required to be done by ordinance, see S.C. Code
§ 5-7-260
§ 2-64 ANNUAL CODIFICATION REQUIRED.
   All ordinances amending this code and any other ordinances or portions of
ordinances, as may be required by the Council, shall be codified at least
annually in this code.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal ordinances to be codified, see S.C. Code § 5-7-290
§ 2-65 NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   Prior to the introduction of an ordinance granting a franchise, license or
right for the use of any street or public property, or for the permanent
closing of any abandoned street, the applicant for such ordinance shall publish
a notice in three separate issues of a newspaper having general circulation in
the town stating the nature of the franchise, license or right sought or a
description of the street sought to be closed, and the date on which the
application is to be presented to the Council which shall be at least one week
after the last notice. This requirement shall not apply to the temporary
closing of a public street initiated by Town Council.
§ 2-66 FORM; INTRODUCED IN WRITING.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be numbered, introduced in writing and in the
form required for final adoption, which shall include:
   (A)   A title briefly describing the contents;
   (B)   The findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired and when
appropriate;
   (C)   An enacting clause as set forth in § 
2-62 of this chapter;
   (D)   A repealing provision, when appropriate;
   (E)   The provisions of the ordinance including section numbers, when
appropriate;
   (F)   The effective date of the ordinance and dates of the first and second
readings and the approval of the Town Attorney as to form, when requested; and
   (G)   Space for the signatures of the Mayor, the Council or, in the absence
of the Mayor, the presiding member of Council. The Clerk shall attest adoption.
When appropriate, the Town Attorney shall attest as to form.
Statutory reference:
   Form and procedures for introducing and passing ordinances, see S.C. Code
§ 5-7-270
§ 2-67 INTRODUCTION; PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   An ordinance may be proposed by the Mayor or any member of the
Council. When appropriate, a proposed ordinance shall be referred to the Town
Attorney for approval as to legality and form. The Town Attorney shall render
assistance in the preparation of ordinances when requested to do so.
   (B)   After an ordinance is in its proper form, the Clerk shall hold the
ordinance for public inspection. An ordinance shall be deemed to be introduced
when, at a public meeting of Council, its title is read.
Statutory reference:
   For “initiative and referendum” which permits electors to propose
ordinances, except an ordinance appropriating money or authorizing the levy of
taxes, see S.C. Code §§ 5-17-10 et seq.
§ 2-68 ORIGINAL ENTERED INTO ORDINANCE BOOK.
   (A)   The Clerk shall enter in an ordinance book the original copy of all
ordinances passed by the Council.
   (B)   The book shall be known as the “Ordinance Book” and it shall be
indexed.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal ordinances to be codified, see S.C. Code § 5-7-290
§ 2-69 NOTING AMENDMENTS OR REPEALS.
   The Clerk shall write on the first page of every ordinance, subsequent to
entry in the ordinance book, if the same shall be amended or repealed, as the
case may be, the words amended, or repealed with a reference on the ordinance
in the ordinance book as to where the amending or repealing ordinance can be
found.
§ 2-70 ENACTMENT; SIX DAYS BETWEEN READINGS; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An ordinance to levy a tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds, grant a
franchise, license or right to use or occupy a public street or public property
for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is finally
passed, and in such form remain on file with the Clerk for public inspection at
least six days before the final adoption.
   (B)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it has been read two times and on
two separate days with at least six days between each reading.
   (C)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on one reading, without notice or
hearing by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members present. An emergency
ordinance may not levy taxes, relate to a franchise or service rate and shall
expire automatically on the sixty-first day following its enactment.
   (D)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance may be by the reading of
the title only unless a full reading is requested by a Council member.
   (E)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any Council member or town
citizen taxpayer interested therein may request a public hearing which shall be
held at a time designated by the Council prior to the final adoption.
Statutory reference:
   Form and procedures for introducing and passing ordinances, see S.C. Code
§ 5-7-270
§ 2-71 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES TO COMPLY WITH STATE AND LOCAL LAW.
   Emergency ordinances shall conform to the provisions of state law and § 2-35
of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Emergency ordinances, see S.C. Code § 5-7-250(d)
§§ 2-72—2-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: MEETINGS OF COUNCIL
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
2-101   Regular time and place; change due to holiday
   
2-102   Procedure for holding special meetings
   
2-103   Notice of change
   
2-104   Open to public
   
2-105   Mayor to preside; designated member to preside in absence of Mayor and
Mayor Pro Tempore
   
2-106   Agenda
   
2-107   Minutes; member positions
   
2-108   Quorum required; rules of order
   
2-109   Interrupting meetings of Council, Municipal Court or other official
body prohibited
   
2-110   Order of proceedings
   
2-111   Procedure for placement of citizen appearance on agenda
   
2-112   Voting procedure
   
2-113   Interested members to refrain from voting
   
2-114   Reasons for voting to be recorded upon request
   
2-115   How often members may speak
   
2-116   Executive sessions
   2-117—2-145   Reserved
Division 2. Committees
   
2-146   Appointments
   
2-147   Reports; generally
   
2-148   Same; order of business
   2-149—2-179   Reserved
Division 3. Motions
   
2-180   Written requests
   
2-181   Non-debatable
   
2-182   Precedence during debate
   
2-183   Reconsideration
   2-184—2-204   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Council meetings, see S.C. Code § 5-7-250
   Notice of meetings, see S.C. Code § 30-4-80
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 2-101 REGULAR TIME AND PLACE; CHANGE DUE TO HOLIDAY.
   (A)   (1)   The regular meeting dates and times of the Council shall be
decided for the coming calendar year at the last regular meeting of the current
calendar year unless otherwise set by the Mayor or Council.
      (2)   If so, a reasonable notice shall be given to each available Council
member and a notice posted at the Town Hall at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting.
   (B)   In the event an official town holiday falls on the scheduled Council
meeting date, the regular meeting shall be held as determined by the Council.
(Ord. 129, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2023-029, passed 1-8-2024)
§ 2-102 PROCEDURE FOR HOLDING SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be held:
   (A)   Whenever called by the Mayor in cases of emergency;
   (B)   When, in the judgment of the Mayor, the good of the town requires it;
or
   (C)   By a majority of the Council members.
§ 2-103 NOTICE OF CHANGE.
   Notice of all changed meetings and special meetings shall be given to all
available Council members and the news media, as required by the state’s
Freedom of Information Act (S.C. Code § 30-4-10).
§ 2-104 OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   All Council meetings shall be open to the public, as required by the state’s
Freedom of Information Act (S.C. Code § 30-4-10).
§ 2-105 MAYOR TO PRESIDE; DESIGNATED MEMBER TO PRESIDE IN ABSENCE OF MAYOR AND
MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all Council meetings.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside at the absence of the Mayor.
   (C)   In the absence of both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore, the duties of
the Mayor shall be performed by such Council member as the Council may
designate.
Statutory reference:
   Mayor pro tempore, see S.C. Code § 5-7-190
§ 2-106 AGENDA.
   Matters to be considered by the Council at a regular meeting shall be placed
on a written agenda by the Town Administrator at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. Matters not on the agenda may be considered upon the request of a
member unless at least two members object.
§ 2-107 MINUTES; MEMBER POSITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk shall keep the minutes of all public meetings of the
Council which shall be a matter of permanent public record.
      (2)   At each regular monthly Council meeting, the minutes of the
previous meeting shall be presented for approval.
      (3)   Minutes shall not be considered the official record of a meeting
until approved by the Council.
   (B)   Any Council member desiring to express a position in the minutes on a
matter voted upon by the Council may do so by presenting the position in
writing to the Council not later than the next regular meeting. No person shall
make any change in the minutes or remove same from the Town Hall, without prior
approval of the Mayor or Council.
Statutory reference:
   Minutes of meetings, see S.C. Code § 30-4-90
§ 2-108 QUORUM REQUIRED; RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of
business at any meeting. Except as otherwise provided by state law or this
code, all proceedings of the Council shall be governed by the Robert’s Rules of
Order, most current edition.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall act as parliamentarian. In his or her absence,
all questions of order shall be decided by the Mayor or, in his or her absence,
the presiding officer, without debate, subject to an appeal to the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see S.C. Code § 5-7-160
§ 2-109 INTERRUPTING MEETINGS OF COUNCIL, MUNICIPAL COURT OR OTHER OFFICIAL
BODY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt the proceedings of the
Council, the Municipal Court or any other official body while in session.
Statutory reference:
   Contempt of court, see S.C. Code § 14-1-150
§ 2-110 ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The order of proceedings of Council meetings may be substantially as
follows:
   (A)   Calling roll;
   (B)   Prayer;
   (C)   Approval of the agenda;
   (D)   Public comment, petitions and communications;
   (E)   Approve minutes;
   (F)   Reports;
   (G)   Old business;
   (H)   New business; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
§ 2-111 PROCEDURE FOR PLACEMENT OF CITIZEN APPEARANCE ON AGENDA.
   Any citizen of the town shall be entitled to be placed on the agenda of any
regular meeting to discuss any town matter, with the exception of personnel
matters. Persons desiring to be placed on the agenda shall notify the Clerk in
writing, stating the item he wishes to discuss, by 12:00 noon the Wednesday
prior to the meeting.
§ 2-112 VOTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A show of hands or a voice vote shall be sufficient to record votes.
During the voting, no member shall leave the Council chamber, without
permission of the presiding officer.
   (B)   All actions of the Council shall be by majority vote of the members
present.
   (C)   The result of each vote on every question shall be recorded in the
minutes by the Clerk. The “yeas” and “nays” on any question shall be recorded,
when requested by any member.
   (D)   Every Council member, including the Mayor, shall have one vote on
every question, except when required to refrain from voting by state law.
   (E)   Members voting “present” shall not be recorded as in favor or opposed
to the motion.
   (F)   The Mayor may make a motion or second a motion without vacating the
chair.
§ 2-113 INTERESTED MEMBERS TO REFRAIN FROM VOTING.
   Neither the Mayor, nor any member of the Council, shall vote on any question
of a private nature in which he or she is personally or pecuniarily interested.
Statutory reference:
   Use of official position for financial gain, see S.C. Code § 8-13-700
§ 2-114 REASONS FOR VOTING TO BE RECORDED UPON REQUEST.
   Any member shall have his or her reasons for voting for or against any
measure recorded in the minutes, at his or her request.
§ 2-115 HOW OFTEN MEMBERS MAY SPEAK.
   No member shall speak more than two times on the same question, except to
explain his or her position, without concurrence of a majority of the Council.
§ 2-116 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The Council may hold executive sessions as permitted by the
state’s Freedom of Information Act (S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 et seq.) at such times
and places as the Council may deem necessary and in the public interest.
   (B)   Majority vote required. A majority vote of the Council shall be
necessary to call such sessions.
   (C)   Public vote required. Before going into executive session, the public
agency shall vote in public on the question and when such vote is favorable the
presiding officer shall announce the specific purpose of the executive session.
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of public bodies shall be open to the public, see S.C. Code § 30-4-
60
   Meetings which may be closed, see S.C. Code § 30-4-70
§§ 2-117—2-145 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. COMMITTEES
§ 2-146 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council may appoint a committee to assist in or hold a public hearing
for the Council at any time upon any matter pending before it, unless otherwise
prohibited by law. The minutes or reports of hearings held by such committees
shall be filed with the Clerk as public records.
§ 2-147 REPORTS; GENERALLY.
   Committee reports may be in writing and signed by a majority of the
committee. Any report involving the expenditure of money shall be in writing
and include the amount to be expended, or an approximation thereof, and the
reasons therefor.
§ 2-148 SAME; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Reports of committees, in the order of business, shall be rendered as the
presiding officer may determine.
§§ 2-149—2-179 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. MOTIONS
§ 2-180 WRITTEN REQUESTS.
   All motions shall be reduced to writing at the request of the Mayor or any
member of the Council.
§ 2-181 NON-DEBATABLE.
   The following motions shall be without debate:
   (A)   To adjourn;
   (B)   To lay on the table;
   (C)   To read any paper;
   (D)   To take the yeas and nays for the previous question; and
   (E)   To reconsider.
§ 2-182 PRECEDENCE DURING DEBATE.
   (A)   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received, except a
motion:
      (1)   To adjourn;
      (2)   To lay on the table;
      (3)   For the previous question;
      (4)   To postpone to a certain day; or
      (5)   To commit, to amend or to postpone indefinitely.
   (B)   The motions contained in this section shall have precedence in the
order in which they are set forth.
§ 2-183 RECONSIDERATION.
   A motion to reconsider shall not be entertained unless it is made by a
member of the Council who voted with the majority, and such motion shall be
made only at the same or next succeeding meeting.
§§ 2-184—2-204 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
2-205   County Commission to conduct elections
   2-206—2-244   Reserved
Division 2. Candidacy Petitions
   
2-245   Candidates; filing
   
2-246   Fees
   
2-247   Validity
   2-248—2-272   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 2-205 COUNTY COMMISSION TO CONDUCT ELECTIONS.
   All authority for the conducting of municipal elections is hereby
transferred to the County Elections Commission upon approval by the County
Council.
(Ord. 159, passed 8-18-2014)
§§ 2-206—2-244 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. CANDIDACY PETITIONS
§ 2-245 CANDIDATES; FILING.
   No candidate shall be allowed to run for more than one office at a time
during its municipal elections.
(Ord. 162, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 2-246 FEES.
   No filing fee shall be required of candidates for Mayor or Council.
§ 2-247 VALIDITY.
   The Commission shall examine the petition and determine its validity not
later than 60 days before the general election concerned.
§§ 2-248—2-272 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS
AND PERSONNEL
Section
   
2-273   Authority
   
2-274   Chief administrative officer
   
2-275   Hiring; suspensions; termination
   
2-276   Compensation of appointed officers and employees fixed by Council
   
2-277   Resisting or interfering with officials or employees prohibited
   2-278—2-314   Reserved
§ 2-273 AUTHORITY.
   The Council may create and establish such town offices, departments and
sections as it may deem proper for the orderly and efficient government of the
town.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish municipal departments, see S.C. Code § 5-11-40
§ 2-274 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the town.
§ 2-275 HIRING; SUSPENSIONS; TERMINATION.
   (A)   Salaried department heads. Except as otherwise provided by this code,
all salaried department heads of the town shall be appointed, and as necessary,
discharged by the Council. They shall be subject to suspension by the
Administrator, who shall report any suspension of a department head to the
Mayor and Council as soon as is practically possible.
   (B)   Subordinate employees. Department heads are authorized to select (hire
or rehire), as necessary, only after receiving the advise and consent of the
Town Administrator. The Town Administrator is responsible for all discharges.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-24-2000)
§ 2-276 COMPENSATION OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES FIXED BY COUNCIL.
   The compensation, as appropriate, of all appointed officers and employees of
the town shall be fixed by the Council and incorporated in the annual budget.
§ 2-277 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH OFFICIALS OR EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or interfere with any town
officer or employee in the discharge of his or her official duties.
§§ 2-278—2-314 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Section
   
2-315   Authority to employ
   
2-316   Qualifications
   
2-317   Serves at pleasure of Council; compensation; removal procedure
   
2-318   Powers; duties
   2-319—2-339   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to hire an administrator, see S.C. Code § 5-11-40
§ 2-315 AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY.
   The Town Council may employ an administrator who shall be the administrative
head of the town government and shall be responsible for the administration of
all the departments of the town government, which the Council has the authority
to control.
§ 2-316 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Administrator shall be employed with regard to his or her executive and
administrative qualifications only, and need not be a resident of the town at
the time of his or her employment. The Administrator must possess a valid
driver’s license.
§ 2-317 SERVES AT PLEASURE OF COUNCIL; COMPENSATION; REMOVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The term of employment of the Administrator shall be at the pleasure
of the Council.
   (B)   The Administrator shall be entitled to such compensation for services
as the Council may determine. The Council may, in its discretion, employ the
administrator for a definite term or grant the Administrator a contract of
employment.
   (C)   If the Council determines to remove the Town Administrator, he or she
shall be given a written statement of the reasons alleged for the proposed
removal and the right to a hearing thereon at a public meeting of the Council.
Within five days after the notice of removal is delivered to the Administrator,
he or she may file with the Council a written request for a public hearing.
This hearing shall be held at the Council meeting not earlier than 20 days, nor
later than 30 days, after the request is filed.
   (D)   The Administrator may file with the Council a written reply not later
than five days before the hearing. The removal shall be stayed pending the
decision at the public hearing. The Administrator may be removed only if a
majority of the Council votes for removal.
§ 2-318 POWERS; DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Administrator shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
   (A)   To serve as the chief administrative officer of the town government;
   (B)   To execute the policies, directives and legislative action of the
Council;
   (C)   To recommend policy improvements/changes and legislative actions to
the Council;
   (D)   To direct and coordinate operational agencies and administrative
activities of the town government;
   (E)   To recommend and administer employee personnel policies,
classification and compensation plans and performance evaluations approved by
the Council;
   (F)   To be responsible for the suspension of personnel;
   (G)   To prepare annual operating and capital improvement budgets for
submission to the Council, and in the exercise of these responsibilities, he or
she shall be empowered to require such reports, estimates and statistics on an
annual or periodic basis as he or she deems necessary for all town departments
and agencies;
   (H)   To authorize shifts in departmental budget line items; provided,
overall departmental budget appropriations do not change. The Council shall be
notified of shifts at the next scheduled meeting of the Council;
   (I)   To act as purchasing agent for the town, supervise the expenditure of
appropriated funds and approve all purchase orders;
   (J)   To prepare annual, monthly and other reports for the Council on
finances and administrative activities of the town;
   (K)   To prepare monthly Council meeting and work session agendas and notes;
and
   (L)   To perform such other duties as may be required by the Council.
(Ord. 76, passed 4-24-2000)
§§ 2-319—2-339 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: TOWN CLERK/TREASURER
Section
   
2-340   Appointed
   
2-341   Bond required
   
2-342   Duties
   
2-343   May act as Treasurer
   
2-344   Treasurer to be bonded if other than Clerk
   2-345—2-361   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and duties of Municipal Clerk, see S.C. Code § 5-7-220
§ 2-340 APPOINTED.
   The Council shall appoint an officer who shall have the title of Town Clerk
and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
§ 2-341 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Clerk shall enter
into a bond in such sum as may be required by the Council with good and
sufficient surety for the faithful performance of his or her duties. The fee
therefor shall be paid by the town.
§ 2-342 DUTIES.
   The Town Clerk’s duties shall be as follows:
   (A)   Serve as ex officio Clerk of the Council;
   (B)   Give notice of meetings;
   (C)   Attend regular and special meetings;
   (D)   Record votes of the Council;
   (E)   Attest all ordinances and resolutions;
   (F)   Keep the minutes of Council meetings; and
   (G)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Council.
§ 2-343 MAY ACT AS TREASURER.
   In addition to all other duties, the Clerk may act also as the Treasurer and
perform those duties commonly associated therewith, pursuant to state statutes
and this code.
§ 2-344 TREASURER TO BE BONDED IF OTHER THAN CLERK.
   Should the Treasurer be other than the Clerk, he or she shall be bonded as
provided for the Clerk in § 2-341 of this chapter.
§§ 2-345—2-361 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX: MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY
Section
   
2-362   Appointed
   
2-363   Duties
   2-364—2-384   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Municipal Attorney, see S.C. Code § 5-7-230
§ 2-362 APPOINTED.
   The Council may appoint a Town Attorney who shall be a lawyer of good and
reputable standing who shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council.
§ 2-363 DUTIES.
   The Town Attorney’s duties shall be as follows:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused by the Council;
   (B)   Act as the parliamentarian;
   (C)   When requested to do so, draft all ordinances and resolutions and
review all ordinances, resolutions and documents presented to the Council;
   (D)   Give opinions upon questions of town procedure, form and law to any
member of the Council and other town officials, when requested;
   (E)   To prosecute all cases before the Municipal Court when a jury trial is
demanded or the defendant is represented by an attorney; and
   (F)   Defend the town against all civil suits.
§§ 2-364—2-384 RESERVED.
ARTICLE X: BUDGET AND FINANCE
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
2-385   Fiscal year
   
2-386   Budget and accounting year
   2-387—2-415   Reserved
Division 2. Annual Budget
   
2-416   Department heads to submit annual budget work program
   
2-417   Annual submission of supporting data and estimates for capital projects
required
   
2-418   Summary to be simple and clear
   
2-419   Anticipated revenues and proposed expenditures of utilities to be
included
   
2-420   Contingent expenses may be included
   
2-421   Public hearing; notice; publication
   
2-422   Changes after hearing
   
2-423   Final budget; public record; available for inspection
   
2-424   Same; permanent copy filed in Clerk’s office
   
2-425   Initial budget to be used until final budget adopted
   
2-426   Appropriations; generally
   
2-427   Same; lapse at end of fiscal year
   
2-428   Same; emergency
   
2-429   Tax levy to be stated; Clerk to notify county
   2-430—2-456   Reserved
Division 3. Administration of Finances
   
2-457   Clerk to submit regular financial reports to Council
   
2-458   Disbursements to be by check and signed
   
2-459   Money deposits
   
2-460   Annual audit
   
2-461   Borrowing in anticipation of tax collection
   
2-462   Payment of notes
   
2-463   Returned check fee
   2-464—2-494   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 2-385 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30 of the following
year.
§ 2-386 BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING YEAR.
   The fiscal year stated in § 2-385 of this chapter shall also constitute the
budget and accounting year.
§§ 2-387—2-415 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 2-416 DEPARTMENT HEADS TO SUBMIT ANNUAL BUDGET WORK PROGRAM.
   Before the beginning of the budget year, the head of each office or
department shall submit a budget work program for the ensuing year.
§ 2-417 ANNUAL SUBMISSION OF SUPPORTING DATA AND ESTIMATES FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS
REQUIRED.
   Annually, the Council shall prepare a budget prior to the new fiscal year.
For such purpose, the heads of each office or department shall submit, in such
detail as may be required, estimates of expenditures and such other supporting
data together with estimates of all capital projects pending or which such
department head believes should be undertaken within the budget year and within
the next five succeeding years.
Statutory reference:
   Annual budget, see S.C. Code § 5-11-40(c)
§ 2-418 SUMMARY TO BE SIMPLE AND CLEAR.
   The budget summary shall be in sufficient detail and summarized as to income
and expenditures in such a manner as to present to taxpayers a simple and clear
summary of the budget.
§ 2-419 ANTICIPATED REVENUES AND PROPOSED EXPENDITURES OF UTILITIES TO BE
INCLUDED.
   The anticipated revenues and proposed expenditures of all utilities shall be
stated in a separate section of the budget. All provisions relating to the
preparation and administration of the budget shall apply to the budget of the
utility.
§ 2-420 CONTINGENT EXPENSES MAY BE INCLUDED.
   Separate provisions may be included in the budget for contingent expenses
for the administration, operation and maintenance of the town.
§ 2-421 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, the Mayor and Council shall determine a place
and time for a public hearing on the budget.
   (B)   Public notice shall be given by advertising the public hearing before
the adoption of the budget in at least one newspaper of general circulation
within the town.
   (C)   The notice shall be given not less than 15 days in advance of the
public hearing and must be a minimum of two columns wide with a bold headline.
   (D)   The public notice shall contain all the information required by state
law.
Statutory reference:
   Budget adoption, see S.C. Code § 6-1-80
§ 2-422 CHANGES AFTER HEARING.
   After the conclusion of a public hearing, the Council may insert new items
or may increase, decrease or delete the items of the budget, but, should the
total proposed expenditures be increased, it shall also increase the total
anticipated revenues by an amount at least equal to such proposed total
expenditures, except for items of capital outlay to be financed through sources
not listed or contained in the budget.
§ 2-423 FINAL BUDGET; PUBLIC RECORD; AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. The
budget and all supporting schedules shall be a public record maintained in the
Town Clerk’s office and open for public inspection during regular office hours.
§ 2-424 SAME; PERMANENT COPY FILED IN CLERK’S OFFICE.
   A permanent copy of the budget, as finally adopted and certified by the Town
Clerk, shall be filed in the Clerk’s office.
§ 2-425 INITIAL BUDGET TO BE USED UNTIL FINAL BUDGET ADOPTED.
   Should the Council fail to adopt a budget by ordinance for the next fiscal
year, on or before its beginning, the budget as initially proposed to the
Council shall be effective until a new budget for the ensuing year is finally
adopted.
§ 2-426 APPROPRIATIONS; GENERALLY.
   From the effective date of the budget, the several amounts stated therein as
proposed expenditures shall be and become appropriated to the several objects
and purposes therein named.
§ 2-427 SAME; LAPSE AT END OF FISCAL YEAR.
   All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the budget year to the extent
that they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered.
§ 2-428 SAME; EMERGENCY.
   In the absence of unappropriated available revenues to meet emergency
appropriations, the Council may authorize by ordinance the issuance of notes,
which may be renewed from time to time, but all such notes and renewals thereof
shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next succeeding
the budget year in which the emergency appropriation was made.
§ 2-429 TAX LEVY TO BE STATED; CLERK TO NOTIFY COUNTY.
   (A)   The Council shall identify in the budget all sources of anticipated
revenue, including tax levy, necessary to meet the financial requirements of
the budgets adopted, as required by state law.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to notify the appropriate county
officials of any change in the tax millage rates.
Statutory reference:
   Annual budget and taxes, see S.C. Code § 5-11-40(c)
§§ 2-430—2-456 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. ADMINISTRATION OF FINANCES
§ 2-457 CLERK TO SUBMIT REGULAR FINANCIAL REPORTS TO COUNCIL.
   The Clerk shall furnish to the Council regular financial statements of all
receipts and disbursements.
§ 2-458 DISBURSEMENTS TO BE BY CHECK AND SIGNED.
   All disbursements, other than for petty cash, shall be by check and signed
by the Mayor and Clerk.
§ 2-459 MONEY DEPOSITS.
   All excess municipal funds shall be deposited to the credit of the town in a
local bank.
§ 2-460 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   Prior to the end of each fiscal year, the Council shall designate a
qualified certified public accountant who, at the end of the fiscal year, shall
make an independent audit of the accounts and other evidence of financial
transactions of the town and shall submit a report to the Council. Such
accountant shall have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal
affairs of the town or of any of its officers. He or she shall, within
specifications approved by the Council, post-audit the books and documents kept
by any office, department, board or agency.
Statutory reference:
   Council required to provide for independent annual audit, see S.C. Code § 5-
7-240
§ 2-461 BORROWING IN ANTICIPATION OF TAX COLLECTION.
   The Council may, during each calendar year, borrow money for its current
expenses and pledge the taxes becoming payable during such calendar year for
the payment of any monies so borrowed.
§ 2-462 PAYMENT OF NOTES.
   The power and obligation of the Council to pay notes issued by it pursuant
to this article shall be unlimited, and the Council may levy ad valorem taxes
on all the taxable property within the corporate limits of the town for the
payment of such notes and interest thereon, without limitation of rate or
amount. The full faith and credit of the town shall be pledged for the payment
of the principal and interest on any notes issued, pursuant to this article.
§ 2-463 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   (A)   All dishonored checks payable to the town and redeemed by the maker
shall have added to the principal sum a collection fee for each such check.
   (B)   Such fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of rates and fees, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§§ 2-464—2-494 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XI: PURCHASING
Section
   
2-495   Agent designated; duties
   
2-496   Formal contract procedure where supplies or services exceed $10,000
   
2-497   Bidding procedure for purchases or contracts less than $10,000
   
2-498   Reserved
   
2-499   Bid deposits
   
2-500   Sealed bid procedure
   
2-501   Material testing
   
2-502   Financial interest of town officials and employees prohibited
   
2-503   Open market order and bid records to be kept
   
2-504   Stock reports
   
2-505   Transferring surplus stock
   
2-506   Authority to sell or exchange supplies unsuitable for public use
   
2-507   Gifts and rebates for personal use prohibited
   
2-508   Cooperative purchasing permitted
Statutory reference:
   Requirement that municipalities develop and adopt procurement ordinances,
see S.C. Code § 11-35-50
§ 2-495 AGENT DESIGNATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Administrator shall be the purchasing agent for the town. In his
or her absence, the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall act as the purchasing agent.
   (B)   The purchasing agent shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The purchasing of supplies, materials and equipment and contractual
services by any office, department or agency of the town;
      (2)   The storing and distributing of all supplies, materials and
equipment required by any office, department or agency of the town;
      (3)   Establishing written specifications, whenever practicable, for
supplies, materials and equipment required by any office, department or agency
of the town. Such specifications shall be definite and certain and shall permit
competition;
      (4)   Maintaining, whenever practicable, a perpetual inventory record of
all materials, supplies or equipment stored in storerooms or warehouses;
      (5)   Soliciting and maintaining a current list of qualified suppliers
who have requested their names to be added to a bidders list. The purchasing
agent shall have authority to remove the names of vendors who have defaulted on
their quotations, attempted to defraud the town or who have failed to meet
established specifications or delivery dates;
      (6)   Obtaining as full and open a competition as possible on all
purchases, contracts and sales; and
      (7)   Approving, along with the Mayor, all invoices for payment.
(Ord. 164, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 2-496 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE WHERE SUPPLIES OR SERVICES EXCEED $10,000.
   (A)   (1)   All supplies and contractual services estimated to exceed
$10,000 shall be offered by formal competitive bidding. In cases where bids
cannot be obtained, bid requests shall be publicized in a newspaper of general
circulation at least five days prior to the last day set for receipt of
proposals; provided, however, that, in cases of emergencies or requests for
professional services, this section shall not apply.
      (2)   The newspaper notice in this section shall:
         (a)   Include a clear description of the articles or services
requested to be purchased;
         (b)   State where bid blanks and specifications may be secured; and
         (c)   State the time and place for opening bids.
      (3)   No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the contents
of this section. All sales of personal property which have become obsolete or
unusable, when the estimated value shall exceed $10,000, shall be sold by
formal written contract or at public auction to the highest bidder, after due
notice inviting proposals and bidders.
   (B)   In the event of an emergency affecting the welfare, health or safety
of the public or town employees, as stated above, these procedures do not
apply; however, a full report of the circumstances of an emergency purchase
shall be filed by the purchasing agent with the Town Council and shall be
entered into the minutes of the Council.
(Ord. 164, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 2-497 BIDDING PROCEDURE FOR PURCHASES OR CONTRACTS LESS THAN $10,000.
   (A)   Required. Competitive pricing is encouraged on purchases and contracts
of amounts less than $10,000.
   (B)   In writing. Whenever possible, these bids shall be in writing.
   (C)   Competitive bidding. Competitive bidding shall be encouraged for all
contracts, purchases or sales.
   (D)   Exceptions for emergency; report required. In the event of an
emergency affecting the welfare, health or safety of the public or town
employees, however, the provisions of §§ 2-496 through 2-498 of this chapter
shall not apply. A full report of the circumstances of an emergency purchase
shall be filed by the purchasing agent with the Town Council and shall be
entered into the minutes of the Council.
(Ord. 164, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 2-498 RESERVED.
§ 2-499 BID DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the purchasing agent, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Upon entering into a contract,
bidders shall be entitled to the return of the bid deposit where the purchasing
agent has required such. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the purchasing agent, upon failure on his or her part to enter into
a contract within ten days after the award; provided, however, that, the town,
in its uncontrolled discretion, may waive this forfeiture.
§ 2-500 SEALED BID PROCEDURE.
   Procedure for sealed bids shall be as follows.
   (A)   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the purchasing agent securely
sealed in an envelope and shall be identified on the envelope in accordance
with the bid instructions.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notices.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public inspection.
   (D)   Rejection of bids. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of bids or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
   (E)   Bidder default. The purchasing agent shall not accept the bid of a
contractor or vendor who is delinquent in the payment of taxes, license fees or
other monies due the town.
   (F)   Awarding contract.
      (1)   Authority of agent. The purchasing agent shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this article; provided, however, that,
contracts in excess of $10,000 shall not be awarded without prior approval of
the Town Council.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition
to price, the purchasing agent shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract and provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with the laws
and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (G)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a statement of the reasons for placing the order elsewhere shall
be prepared by the purchasing agent.
   (H)   Tie bids; local vendor preference. If all bids received are the same
total amount or unit price, quality and service are equal, the contract shall
be awarded to the local bidder. If two or more of such bids are submitted by
local bidders, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the
local bidders by drawing lots in public. If local bidders are not involved in
tie bids, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the outside
tie bidders by drawing lots in public. The purchasing agent, local bidders and
vendors should bear in mind, however, that to award a contract to a local
vendor where he is not the lowest responsible bidder, or where the price,
quality and service are not equal, is to give preference to one minute segment
of the citizenry against the best interest of the community as a whole.
   (I)   Performance bonds. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such form and
amount as he or she shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best
interest of the town.
   (J)   Payment and labor and material bonds. The purchasing agent may require
a payment bond and a labor and material bond, before entering into a contract,
in such form and amount as he or she shall find reasonably necessary to protect
the public interest of the town.
§ 2-501 MATERIAL TESTING.
   (A)   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries, which
are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications.
   (B)   In the performance of such test, the purchasing agent shall have the
authority to make use of laboratory facilities of any agency of the town or any
outside laboratory.
§ 2-502 FINANCIAL INTEREST OF TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No member of the Council or any other officer or employee of the town
shall have a financial interest in any contract or in the sale to the town or
to a contractor supplying the town of any land or rights or interests in any
land, materials, supplies or services, except when a majority of the Council
determines such exception is in the best interest of the town. No member of the
Council whose interest is involved shall vote on the question.
   (B)   Any willful violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in
office.
   (C)   Any officer or employee of the town found guilty thereof shall forfeit
his or her office or position. Any violation of this section with the
knowledge, express or implied, of the person contracting with the town shall
render the contract voidable by the Town Administrator or Town Council.
§ 2-503 OPEN MARKET ORDER AND BID RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   The purchasing agent shall keep a record of all open market orders and the
bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records shall also be open to
public inspection.
§ 2-504 STOCK REPORTS.
   All offices, departments or agencies of the town shall submit to the
purchasing agent, at times and in such form as he shall prescribe, reports
showing stocks of all supplies which are no longer used or which have become
obsolete, worn out or scrapped.
§ 2-505 TRANSFERRING SURPLUS STOCK.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to transfer surplus stock to
other offices, agencies or departments of the town.
§ 2-506 AUTHORITY TO SELL OR EXCHANGE SUPPLIES UNSUITABLE FOR PUBLIC USE.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to sell all supplies which
have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or trade-in
the same on, new supplies. Such sales shall be made to the highest bidder,
unless otherwise authorized by the Mayor and Council. All monies received from
such sales shall be paid into the appropriate fund of the town.
§ 2-507 GIFTS AND REBATES FOR PERSONAL USE PROHIBITED.
   The purchasing agent and every officer and employee of the town are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person to
which any purchase order or contract is, or might be awarded, any rebate, gift,
money or anything of value whatsoever, except where given for the use and
benefit of the town.
§ 2-508 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING PERMITTED.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to join with other units of
the government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the
town would be served thereby; provided that, the purchasing agent is hereby
authorized to purchase supplies and equipment through the Property Division of
the state’s Budget and Control Board, without the formality of publication and
receiving competitive bids.
(Ord. 52, passed 8-10-1998)
CHAPTER 3: RESERVED
CHAPTER 4: ADVERTISING
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   POSTINGS, SIGNS AND BANNERS
         
III.   USING NOISES FOR ADVERTISING PURPOSES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
4-1   Soliciting prohibited
   
4-2   Unlawful to use streets for sales and distribution
   4-3—4-22   Reserved
§ 4-1 SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   Unless approved by the Mayor and Council, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For the operator, owner or manager of any roominghouse, boardinghouse
or lodginghouse, restaurant, café, tea room, lunch room or storage garage,
hereafter called an “establishment”, to employ or use any person to solicit
patrons therefor, by going upon the streets and accosting pedestrians or
occupants of vehicles, either verbally or by means of signs or any other device
whatsoever; and
   (B)   For any person acting as an agent of any said establishment to accost
pedestrians or occupants of motor vehicles upon the streets, either verbally,
by means of signs or any other device whatsoever, to solicit such persons to
become occupants or patrons thereof.
§ 4-2 UNLAWFUL TO USE STREETS FOR SALES AND DISTRIBUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, solicit sales or offer for
distribution any merchandise, publication, handbill or pamphlet while such
person is standing in the street, the areas reserved for parking spaces, the
areas reserved for loading and unloading or to enter any of said areas for the
purpose of sale or delivery of any said items.
§§ 4-3—4-22 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: POSTINGS, SIGNS AND BANNERS
Section
   
4-23   Placing banners, political signs and the like on public or private
property
   
4-24   Distributing handbills and placards
   
4-25   Removing, defacing and the like town or state signs prohibited
   4-26—4-53   Reserved
§ 4-23 PLACING BANNERS, POLITICAL SIGNS AND THE LIKE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place any advertisement, notice or sign of any
nature on public property within the corporate limits, without prior approval
of the Town Administrator, or on any private property without prior approval of
the owner thereof.
   (B)   The prohibition contained in subsection (A) above shall include a
banner, canvas, placard, picture, paper, circular, printed matter or any other
similar means or device whatsoever.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to post political signs of any nature on public
property including, but not limited to, power poles, telephone poles, street
signs and the like.
   (D)   One sidewalk sign is allowed per business. The sign must have a
maximum height of four feet and a maximum width of two and one-half feet. The
sign shall only be displayed when the business is open. Illumination of any
type is prohibited. Signs must be placed on the sidewalk in front of the
building and shall be placed to allow a minimum passable space on the sidewalk
of six feet, may not otherwise impede pedestrian movements or create a conflict
with any provision of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Signs shall be
placed where they will not obstruct the swing radius of vehicle doors legally
parked in the right-of-way. The sign shall not be attached to the ground or
building and must be constructed and weighted to prevent overturning and
splaying.
(Ord. 2024-008, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 4-24 DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS AND PLACARDS.
   (A)   Securely placed. Except as otherwise authorized, no handbill or
placard shall be distributed within the corporate limits, unless it is
deposited in a secure place where the wind will not blow it away.
   (B)   Placing under windshield wiper prohibited. The placing of a handbill
or placard under a windshield wiper of a motor vehicle shall not be construed
as a deposit of the same in a secure place. Delivery to persons in a vehicle
shall be permitted.
   (C)   Application required. An application for a permit to distribute
advertising matter shall be made to the Town Clerk.
§ 4-25 REMOVING, DEFACING AND THE LIKE TOWN OR STATE SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, tear down, deface or destroy
any sign erected by town or state authorities.
§§ 4-26—4-53 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: USING NOISES FOR
ADVERTISING PURPOSES
Section
   
4-54   Loudspeakers, musical instruments and the like
   
4-55   Making noise to attract attention or invite patronage; generally
   
4-56   Same; church bells excepted
§ 4-54 LOUDSPEAKERS, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Unreasonably loud, excessive and disturbing noise prohibited. It shall
be unlawful for any person to maintain and operate in any building or on any
premises any radio device or mechanical musical instrument or device of any
kind whereby the sound therefrom is cast directly upon the public streets and
places in a manner as to create an unreasonably loud, excessive and disturbing
noise. This shall include any device which is or may be maintained and operated
for advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting the attention of the
passing public. Also, any device so placed and operated that the sounds coming
therefrom can be heard to the annoyance or inconvenience of travelers upon any
street or public place or of persons in neighboring premises.
   (B)   Permit required. A permit therefor shall be obtained from the Mayor
and Council.
§ 4-55 MAKING NOISE TO ATTRACT ATTENTION OR INVITE PATRONAGE; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any noise upon a public street
or in a proximity thereto as to be distinctly and loudly audible upon the
street. This shall include, but not be limited to, crying, calling or shouting,
or any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical
instrument or other device for any purpose of attracting attention or of
inviting patronage of any persons to any business whatsoever.
§ 4-56 SAME; CHURCH BELLS EXCEPTED.
   This article shall not apply to the ringing of church bells by established
places of worship.
CHAPTER 5: RESERVED
CHAPTER 6: ANIMALS
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   BIRD SANCTUARY
         
III.   LIVESTOCK
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
6-1   Animal control
   
6-2   Keeping swine prohibited
   
6-3   Nuisance; declared
   
6-4   Same; failing to abate
   
6-5   Trapping animals prohibited
   6-6—6-26   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Lancaster County has assumed the responsibility for animal control for the
town, with the exception of Arts I and II of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for animal care and control ordinances, see S.C. Code § 47-3-
20
§ 6-1 ANIMAL CONTROL.
   As it relates to animal control, the town hereby adopts Chapter 6 (Animals
and Fowl) of the Lancaster County Code of Ordinances in its entirety including
as it may be amended by the Lancaster County Council.
(Ord. 2024-011, passed 6-17-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of dangerous animals, see S.C. Code §§ 47-3-710 et seq.
§ 6-2 KEEPING SWINE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep or maintain swine of any
kind within the corporate limits.
§ 6-3 NUISANCE; DECLARED.
   Any fowl, bird or animal which shall by sound, odor or sight materially
interfere with or affect the health, comfort, peace or quiet of the people is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
§ 6-4 SAME; FAILING TO ABATE.
   Any person harboring, keeping, possessing or having in custody or control
any fowl, bird or animal which constitutes a nuisance, as defined in § 6-3 of
this chapter, who shall fail or refuse to take such action or do such things as
will abate such nuisance when requested in writing to do so by the Town
Administrator, shall upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 6-5 TRAPPING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to trap animals that have been declared a nuisance
by the Town Council or the state’s Department of Natural Resources; provided
that, the person is properly licensed by the Department of Natural Resources
and the Town Council has given permission to trap the nuisance animals.
   (B)   Such nuisance animals may be destroyed in such manner and in such
numbers as deemed advisable by said Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to fine or imprisonment, or both, at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 6-5, passed 9-24-2018)
§§ 6-6—6-26 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BIRD SANCTUARY
Section
   
6-27   Established
   
6-28   Trapping, hunting and the like birds or wild fowl prohibited
   
6-29   Abatement procedure for birds constituting nuisance
   
6-30   Farm land and swamps excluded from article
   6-31—6-48   Reserved
§ 6-27 ESTABLISHED.
   The entire area situated within the corporate limits is hereby designated a
bird sanctuary.
§ 6-28 TRAPPING, HUNTING AND THE LIKE BIRDS OR WILD FOWL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in
any way any bird or wild fowl or to rob nests or wild fowl nests.
§ 6-29 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE FOR BIRDS CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   (A)   If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such
numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a menace to health or
property, in the opinion of the county’s Board of Health, the Council shall
meet with said health authorities to resolve the problem.
   (B)   If no satisfactory course of action is found to abate such nuisance at
such meeting, said birds may be destroyed in such manner and in such numbers as
is deemed advisable by said health authorities under the supervision of such
persons as may be approved by the Council.
§ 6-30 FARM LAND AND SWAMPS EXCLUDED FROM ARTICLE.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to farm or swamp lands within
the corporate limits.
§§ 6-31—6-48 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: LIVESTOCK
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
6-49   Domestic farm animals, livestock, fowl or the like prohibited
   6-50—6-71   Reserved
Division 2. Impoundment
   
6-72   Authority
   
6-73   Notice; publication
   
6-74   Sale of animal
   
6-75   Redemption
Statutory reference:
   Animals running at large unlawful, see S.C. Code §§ 47-7-10 et seq.
   Regulation of livestock, see S.C. Code §§ 47-9-10 et seq.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 6-49 DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK, FOWL OR THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to acquire and/or keep
any domestic farm animals, livestock, fowl or the like within corporate limits.
A list of such animals which shall not be allowed within the corporate limits
shall include, but not be limited to, cows, ducks, geese, goats, guineas,
horses, mules, swine, turkeys or the like.
   (B)   Chickens are allowed under the following restrictions and regulations:
      (1)   Maximum number of chickens allowed is ten per residential lot.
      (2)   No more than one rooster allowed.
      (3)   Pens or coops must be located in rear yards only.
      (4)   The following setbacks for pens or coops are required:
         (a)   Ten feet from the side and rear property lines.
         (b)   Seventy-five feet from the nearest residence other than that of
the owner.
(Ord. 2024-015, passed 8-19-2024; Ord. 2024-037, passed 11-18-2024)
§§ 6-50—6-71 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. IMPOUNDMENT
§ 6-72 AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of law enforcement officers to capture and impound any
such animal referred to in this article which is found to be running at large.
§ 6-73 NOTICE; PUBLICATION.
   It shall be the duty of the police officer in charge, Town Administrator or
a person designated by him or her, immediately after impounding any cattle
found running at large, to notify the owner by personal communication or, if
unknown, advertise in a newspaper of general circulation within the town or to
post such notice in three public places accurately describing the cattle or
fowl so impounded. Such notice shall be posted for not less than five days.
§ 6-74 SALE OF ANIMAL.
   After the lapse of five days, if the cattle so impounded are not redeemed,
they may be sold at public auction by the designated town official, to defray
the expense of keeping them. Any surplus from such sale, over and above the
expenses, shall be paid to the owner of the impounded animal but, if the owner
is unknown, the surplus funds shall be paid into the town’s General Fund.
§ 6-75 REDEMPTION.
   The owner of any animal impounded under this article may redeem it before
the sale by paying a fee for each and every head of cattle and other impounded
animal before the animal can be released. For each day after the first day, the
owner shall pay an additional fee for each animal, to pay for the daily feeding
of same. The fees for recovery of any impounded animals shall be in an amount
as established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the
schedule of fees and charges, available for public examination in the Town
Clerk’s office.
CHAPTER 7: RESERVED
CHAPTER 8: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   BUILDING CODES
         
III.   NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR BUILDINGS AND
PROPERTY
         
IV.   MOBILE HOMES
         
V.   REHABILITATED HISTORIC PROPERTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
8-1   State law governs where conflicts exist
   
8-2   Permits; required; fee
   
8-3   Same; industrial buildings; appeal
   
8-4   Non-resident contractor required to obtain business license
   
8-5   Work to be perform by licensed electricians and plumbers
   
8-6   Lancaster County Development Services to provide services
   8-7—8-28   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   In May of 1994, the Town Council approved arrangements with the county,
which established the County Joint Planning Commission. The County
    Building and Zoning Department assumed the responsibility for Building Code
enforcement, building inspection and zoning enforcement. The official title for
the
    Building Inspector is County Building and Zoning Official. All fees are
established, approved, collected and retained by the county.
Statutory reference:
   Building permits, see S.C. Code § 5-25-310
§ 8-1 STATE LAW GOVERNS WHERE CONFLICTS EXIST.
   Should any conflict arise between the provisions of this chapter and any
state law, rule or regulation, the provisions of state law shall prevail and be
controlling.
§ 8-2 PERMITS; REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No building or structure, nor any additions thereto, shall be erected
or constructed unless a permit has been issued by the county’s Building and
Zoning Department and a fee paid as may be required by standard codes, when
adopted, or this code.
   (B)   Such fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by the
county and set forth in the schedule of rates and fees, available for public
examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 8-3 SAME; INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS; APPEAL.
   No person desiring to construct, erect or use a building for industrial
purposes, shall do so without first applying for a permit. If the permit is not
approved, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Town Council.
§ 8-4 NON-RESIDENT CONTRACTOR REQUIRED TO OBTAIN BUSINESS LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for a non-resident contractor to commence any work
until a business license has been obtained therefor.
§ 8-5 WORK TO BE PERFORM BY LICENSED ELECTRICIANS AND PLUMBERS.
   All electric and plumbing services, when not performed by the property
owner, shall be performed by electricians and plumbers licensed by the state,
unless otherwise authorized by the Town Council.
§ 8-6 LANCASTER COUNTY DEVELOPMENT SERVICES TO PROVIDE SERVICES.
   The Town of Kershaw has determined that it is in the best interest of the
town to allow the Lancaster County Development Services the right to administer
and enforce building, planning and zoning regulations within the town's
corporate limits. Therefore, the town hereby surrenders its right to administer
and enforce said services and conveys same to Lancaster County. The town
reserves the right to resume its own administration and enforcement of these
services at any time in the future.
(Ord. 2023-016, passed 9-18-2023)
§§ 8-7—8-28 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
8-29   Homeowner provisions
   
8-30   Permit not required for ordinary repairs and maintenance
   
8-31   Unsafe buildings or structures; posting and notice
   
8-32   Same; Council notice to correct, remove or discontinue
   
8-33   Appeals made to Mayor and Council
   
8-34   Town buildings to be smoke free
   
8-35   Use of alternate materials and methods prohibited without approval
   
8-36   Disclaimer of liability
   8-37—8-60   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Lancaster County has assumed the responsibility for regulation and
enforcement of building and safety codes regarding building standards and
safety for the town.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption by reference of codes and standards, see S.C. Code §§ 6-9-50 and 6-
9-60
   Enforcement of building codes, see S.C. Code § 6-9-10
   Provisions of building and safety codes regarding building standards and
safety binding upon local government, see S.C. Code § 6-9-5
§ 8-29 HOMEOWNER PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any homeowner from installing or
maintaining buildings, electrical wiring or plumbing within his or her own
property boundaries; provided, such work is done by himself or herself and is
used exclusively by him, her or his or her family. Such privilege does not
convey the right to violate any of the provisions of this chapter, neither is
it to be construed as exempting any such property owner from obtaining a permit
and having the work inspected.
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of local building permit requires either licensure or exemption
from requirements, see S.C. Code § 40-59-280
§ 8-30 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED FOR ORDINARY REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   Ordinary minor repairs and general maintenance may be made without a permit;
provided that, such repairs shall not violate any of the provisions of this
code. Examples of minor repairs and general maintenance shall include, but not
be limited to, painting, reroofing, carpeting and the like.
§ 8-31 UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES; POSTING AND NOTICE.
   To every building which shall appear to the Building Inspector to be
dangerous to life or limb, or because of its liability to fire, bad conditions
of walls, overloaded construction, decay or other cause shall be held to be
unsafe, the Building Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character
of the structure at a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building
and shall give immediate notice to the owner or agent for the correction of
such condition.
§ 8-32 SAME; COUNCIL NOTICE TO CORRECT, REMOVE OR DISCONTINUE.
   The Building Inspector shall report his or her findings to the Mayor and
Council which, after consideration, may issue an order for the immediate
correction, removal or discontinuance of the hazard.
§ 8-33 APPEALS MADE TO MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   Appeals from decisions of authorized officials shall be to the Mayor and
Council.
§ 8-34 TOWN BUILDINGS TO BE SMOKE FREE.
   Buildings owned by the town are hereby declared to be and shall remain
smoke-free environments.
§ 8-35 USE OF ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS PROHIBITED WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   A person designated by the Council shall authorize the use of alternate
materials or construction methods; provided, the proposed design complies with
the provisions of the standard Building Code.
§ 8-36 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any party owning, operating, controlling or installing any
building, electrical, gas or plumbing equipment from damages to anyone insured
thereby, nor shall the town be held as assuming any such liability by reason of
any inspection authorized in this chapter or certificate issued.
§§ 8-37—8-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
8-61   Required
   8-62—8-80   Reserved
§ 8-61 REQUIRED.
   (A)   All buildings and properties located within the corporate limits shall
hereafter be assigned a number identified by the numbering system maintained by
the Town Clerk, in conjunction with the United States Postal Service and the
town’s post office.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall assign said number to each building and property
located within the corporate limits.
   (C)   The owner, occupier or agent of each building and property shall place
or cause to be placed upon each building and property owned or occupied by him
or her the number assigned by the Town Clerk as follows.
      (1)   Numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in height, durable and
clearly visible.
      (2)   Numbers shall be placed conspicuously immediately above or to the
side of the door facing the street so that the number can be plainly seen from
the street. If the building is more than 50 feet from the street, the number
shall be placed near the walk, driveway or common entrance to the building upon
a gatepost, fence, post, tree or other appropriate place so that the number can
be plainly seen from the street.
      (3)   If the building has a street-side mailbox, the number may be
painted upon or affixed to the mailbox. It shall, as closely as possible,
approximate the height of three inches as space permits; provided, it can be
plainly seen from the street.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, occupier or agent of each
existing or newly acquired or constructed building and property who does not
know the number assigned to his or her building or property to obtain the
number from the Town Clerk who shall provide the number requested.
§§ 8-62—8-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
8-81   Defined
   
8-82   Permanent foundation and underpinning required
   
8-83   Utilities
   8-84—8-99   Reserved
§ 8-81 DEFINED.
   For purposes of this article, the term MOBILE HOME means any movable or
portable dwelling on a chassis, designed without a permanent foundation and
intended for year-round living. It may consist of two or more separately
towable components designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of
being again separated into the components for repeated towing.
§ 8-82 PERMANENT FOUNDATION AND UNDERPINNING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to occupy for dwelling purposes a mobile home unless it
shall have been securely placed on a permanent foundation and underpinned as
defined by the zoning regulations.
§ 8-83 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Required. Water and sewerage facilities shall be a prerequisite to
either locating or occupying a mobile home within the corporate limits, unless
otherwise authorized by the Council.
   (B)   Sewer connections to be approved. It shall be unlawful to connect a
mobile home to existing sewer connections without approval of the town.
§§ 8-84—8-99 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: REHABILITATED HISTORIC PROPERTIES
Section
   
8-100   Special tax assessment created
   
8-101   Purpose
   
8-102   Eligible historic properties
   
8-103   Eligible rehabilitation for historic properties
   
8-104   Process
   8-105—8-110   Reserved
§ 8-100 SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT CREATED.
   A special tax assessment is created for eligible rehabilitated historic
properties property for a period of 20 years equal to the assessed value of the
property at the time of preliminary certification.
(Ord. 2019-007, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 8-101 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to:
   (A)   Encourage the rehabilitation of historic properties;
   (B)   Promote community development and redevelopment;
   (C)   Encourage sound community planning; and
   (D)   Promote the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 2019-007, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 8-102 ELIGIBLE HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Certification as historic property. In order to be eligible for the
special tax assessment, historic properties must receive preliminary and final
certification.
      (1)   Preliminary certification. To receive preliminary certification, a
property must meet the following conditions:
         (a)   The property meets the requirements for historic designation as
established in this section;
         (b)   The proposed rehabilitation work receives a recommendation of
approval from the appropriate architectural reviewing authority (hereinafter
“reviewing authority”) and is consistent with the rehabilitation standards as
set forth in this article. The reviewing authority shall review all proposed
improvements associated with the rehabilitation and make a recommendation to
the Town Council regarding the project’s eligibility. For the purpose of this
article, the reviewing authority shall be defined as follows:
            1.   In any municipality that has an architectural review board,
the municipal board shall serve as the reviewing authority; and
            2.   In the unincorporated areas of the county, and within any
municipality that does not have an architectural review board the state’s
Department of Archives and History shall serve as the reviewing authority for
historic properties.
         (c)   Be a project that commenced by or after 1-1-2018 through the
date of the adoption of this article and work was permitted to have begun prior
to receiving preliminary certification; or
         (d)   Be a project that commences on or after the date of the adoption
of this article.
      (2)   Final certification. To be eligible for final certification, a
property must have met the following conditions:
         (a)   The property has received preliminary certification;
         (b)   The minimum expenditures for rehabilitation as set forth in this
article have been incurred and paid;
         (c)   The completed rehabilitation receives a recommendation for
approval from the reviewing authority as being consistent with the plans
approved by the reviewing authority during preliminary certification;
         (d)   All application fees have been paid in full by the applicant;
and
         (e)   The property has met all other requirements of this article.
   (B)   Historic designation. In order to be eligible for the special tax
assessment, the property must meet one of the following criteria:
      (1)   The property must be listed on the National Register of Historic
Places either individually or as a contributing property in a district; or
      (2)   The property is designated as a historic property by the Town
Council based upon criteria established by the Town Council and the property is
at least 50 years old.
   (C)   Historic property criteria. In order to be eligible for the special
tax assessment, the property must meet one of the following criteria:
      (1)   Any property included in one of the categories below is considered
a historic property:
         (a)   Listed on the National Register of Historic Places;
         (b)   Determined eligible for the National Register by the state’s
Department of Archives and History;
         (c)   A contributing property in a National Register Historic
District;
         (d)   Qualifying for and having a state historical marker; or
         (e)   Location in an area designated by the Town Council as a historic
district rehabilitation area and the property is at least 50 years old.
      (2)   All other properties must demonstrate:
         (a)   Association with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of history;
         (b)   Association with the lives of significant persons in the past;
or
         (c)   Embodiment of distinctive characteristics of a type, period or
method of construction; or representation of the work of a master or possession
of high artistic values.
      (3)   Property owners seeking eligibility as historic property must
receive a historic property determination by filling an application with the
town.
         (a)   The completed rehabilitation receives a recommendation for
approval from the reviewing authority as being consistent with the plans
approved by the reviewing authority during preliminary certification.
         (b)   All application fees have been paid in full by the applicant.
         (c)   The property has met all other requirements of this article.
(Ord. 2019-007, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 8-103 ELIGIBLE REHABILITATION FOR HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Standards for rehabilitation. To be eligible for the special tax
assessment, historic rehabilitations must be conducted according to the
following standards.
      (1)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alterations or of features and
spaces that characterize each property shall be avoided.
      (2)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development
shall not be undertaken.
      (3)   Most properties change over time. Those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      (4)   Distinctive features, finishes and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property should be preserved.
      (5)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new should match the old in design, color, texture and
other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical or pictorial evidence.
      (6)   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      (7)   New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the historic property and its environment.
      (8)   New additions and adjacent new construction shall be undertaken in
such a manner that, if removed in the future, the essential form and integrity
of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
   (B)   Work to be reviewed. The following work will be reviewed according to
the standards set forth above:
      (1)   Repairs to the exterior of the designated building;
      (2)   Alterations to the exterior of the designated building;
      (3)   New construction on the property on which the building is located,
including site work;
      (4)   Alterations to interior primary public spaces, as defined by the
reviewing authority; and
      (5)   Any remaining work where the expenditures for such work are being
used to satisfy the minimum expenditures for rehabilitation, including, but not
limited to, alterations made to mechanical, plumbing and electrical systems.
   (C)   Minimum expenditures for rehabilitation. To be eligible for the
special property tax assessment, the owner or the owner’s estate must meet the
minimum expenditures for rehabilitation.
      (1)   The minimum investment shall be 20% of the fair market value of the
building which is to be rehabilitated.
      (2)   Fair market value means the appraised value as certified to the
county by a real estate appraiser licensed by the state, the sales price as
delineated in a bona fide contract of sale within 12 months of the time it is
submitted or the most recent appraised value published by the County Tax
Assessor.
   (D)   Expenditures. Expenditures for rehabilitation means the actual cost of
rehabilitation relating to one or more of the following:
      (1)   Improvements located on or within the historic building as
designated;
      (2)   Improvements outside of, but directly attached to, the historic
building which are necessary to make the building fully useable (such as
vertical circulation), but shall not include rentable/habitable floor space
attributable to new construction;
      (3)   Architectural and engineering services attributable to the design
of the improvements; and
      (4)   Costs necessary to maintain the historic character or integrity of
the building,
   (E)   Scope. The special tax assessment may apply to the following:
      (1)   Structure(s) rehabilitated; and
      (2)   Real property on which the building is located.
   (F)   Time limits. If the project is not complete after two years, but the
minimum expenditures for rehabilitation have been incurred, the property
continues to receive the special assessment until the project is completed.
(Ord. 2019-007, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 8-104 PROCESS.
   (A)   Fee required. There is a fee required for the review of rehabilitation
work during the final certification process. Final certification of the
property will not be given until the fee has been paid in full by the
applicant. Fees shall be established in the town’s budget document.
   (B)   Plan required. Owners of property seeking approval of rehabilitation
work must submit a completed rehabilitation of property application with
supporting documentation to the Building Official or his or her designee prior
to beginning work. Rehabilitation work conducted prior to approval of the
application is done so at the risk of the property owner and may disqualify the
property from eligibility for the special tax assessment.
   (C)   Preliminary certification. Upon receipt of the completed application,
the Building Official or his or her designee shall submit the plan to the
reviewing authority for a recommendation as to whether the project is
consistent with the standards for rehabilitation. Upon receipt of the reviewing
authority’s recommendation, the County Administrator or his or her designee
shall notify the owner in writing. Upon receipt of this determination, the
property owner may:
      (1)   If the application is approved, begin rehabilitation; or
      (2)   If the application is not approved, he or she may revise such
application in accordance with comments provided by reviewing authority.
   (D)   Substantive changes. Once preliminary certification is granted to an
application, substantive changes must be approved in writing by the County
Administrator or his or her designee. Any substantive changes made to the
property during rehabilitation that are not approved by the Town Administrator
or his or her designee, upon review and recommendation of the reviewing
authority, are conducted at the risk of the property owner and may disqualify
the project from eligibility during the final certification process.
   (E)   Final certification.
      (1)   Upon completion of the project, the property must receive final
certification in order to be eligible for the special assessment. The reviewing
authority shall inspect completed projects to determine if the work is
consistent with the approval recommended by the reviewing authority and granted
by the town during preliminary certification. The review process for final
certification shall be established by the reviewing authority and may include a
physical inspection of the property. The reviewing authority shall notify the
applicant in writing of its recommendation. If the applicant wishes to appeal
the reviewing authority’s recommendation, the appeal must follow the reviewing
authority’s appeals process. The County Administrator or his or her designee
may grant final certification only if the following conditions have been met:
         (a)   The completed work meets the standards for rehabilitation as
established in this article;
         (b)   Verification is made that the minimum expenditures have been
incurred in accordance with the provisions of this article; and
         (c)   Any fee(s) shall be paid in full.
      (2)   Upon receiving final certification, the property will be assessed
for the remainder of the special assessment period on the fair market value of
the property at the time the preliminary certification was made, or the final
certification was made whichever occurred earlier.
   (F)   Additional work. For the remainder of the special assessment period
after final certification, the property owner shall notify the Town
Administrator or his or her designee of any additional work, other than
ordinary maintenance, prior to the work beginning. The reviewing authority
shall review the work and make a recommendation to the County Administrator or
his or her designee whether the overall project is consistent with the
standards for rehabilitation. The Town Administrator or his or her designee
shall notify the property owner in writing if the overall project is consistent
with the standards for rehabilitation. If the additional work is found to be
inconsistent by the reviewing authority, the County Administrator or his or her
designee shall notify the owner in writing within 30 days of its decision to
rescind approval. The property owner may withdraw his or her request and cancel
or revise the proposed additional work to the satisfaction of the Town
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (G)   Notification. Upon final certification of a rehabilitated historic
property, the County Assessor, Auditor and Treasurer shall be notified by the
Town Administrator or his or her designee that such property has been duly
certified and is eligible for the special tax assessment.
   (H)   Application. Once the final certification has been granted, the owner
of the property shall make application to the County Auditor for the special
assessment provided for herein. The special assessment shall remain in effect
for the length of the special assessment period, unless the property shall
become decertified under the provisions of this section.
   (I)   Date effective. If an application for preliminary or final
certification is filed on or before May 1 or the preliminary or final
certification is approved on or before August 1, the special assessment
authorized herein is effective for that year. Otherwise, it is effective
beginning with the following year. The special assessment only begins in the
current or future tax years as provided for in this section. The special
assessment period shall not exceed 20 years in length, and in no instance may
the special assessment be applied retroactively.
   (J)   Previously certified properties. A property certified to receive the
special property tax assessment under the existing law continues to receive the
special assessment in effect at the time certification was made.
   (K)   Decertification. Once the property has received final certification
and assessed as rehabilitated historic property, it remains so certified and
must be granted the special assessment until the property becomes disqualified
by any one of the following:
      (1)   Written notice from the owner to the County Auditor requesting
removal of the special assessment:
      (2)   Removal of the historic designation by the Town Council based upon
non-compliance of the criteria established in this article; or
      (3)   Rescission of the approval of rehabilitation by the county, at the
recommendation of the reviewing authority, because of alterations or renovation
by the owner or the owner’s estate which cause the property to no longer
possess the qualities and features which made it eligible for final
certification. Notification of any change affecting eligibility must be given
immediately to the County Assessor, Auditor and Treasurer.
(Ord. 2019-007, passed 8-19-2019)
§§ 8-105—8-110 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 9: RESERVED
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL LICENSES
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT DEVICES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
10-1   Regulations adopted by reference
   
10-2   Administration
   10-3—10-22   Reserved
§ 10-1 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for the collection of business and professional licenses, the
Town Council adopted Ord. 2023-012 on 9-18-2023, with subsequent amendments.
Due to its complexity and length, it is not included in this chapter, and it is
neither amended nor rescinded by this code. Any questions relating to the
Business and Professional License Ordinance or amendments should be addressed
to the Town Administrator or Town Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-010, passed 10-18-2021; Ord. 2023-004, passed 4-6-2023; Ord. 2023-
012, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 10-2 ADMINISTRATION.
   The responsibility for administering the ordinance stated in § 10-1 of this
chapter is hereby vested in the Administrator.
§ 10-3—10-22 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: AMUSEMENTS AND AMUSEMENT DEVICES
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
10-23   Definitions
   
10-24   Hours of operation
   
10-25   Gambling and gambling devices prohibited
   
10-26   Places to have entrances opening onto street
   10-27—10-55   Reserved
Division 2. Musical Devices
   
10-56   Hours of operation; generally
   
10-57   Same; coin-operated mechanical devices
   
10-58   Unlawful to operate loudly
   10-59—10-89   Reserved
Division 3. Pool Halls
   
10-90   To be located on ground floor; minors; closing hours
   
10-91   Table to be unplugged and covered with fabric during closing hours
   10-92—10-110   Reserved
Division 4. Additional Provisions
   
10-111   Permit required for carnivals and street shows
   
10-112   Operation of dance halls on Sundays prohibited
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 10-23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine for the playing of amusements or video games,
without a free play feature operated by a slot wherein is deposited any coin or
thing of value. The term AMUSEMENT DEVICE includes:
      (1)   Any machine for the playing of games or amusements, which has a
free play feature, operated by a slot wherein is deposited any coin or thing of
value and such machine is of the non- payment pin table type with levers or
flippers operated by the player by which the course of the balls can be altered
or changed; and
      (2)   Any machine of the non-payment type, in-line pin game or video game
with a free play feature operated by a slot wherein is deposited any coin or
thing of value, except machines of the non- payout pin table type with levers
or flippers operated by the player by which the course of the balls can be
altered or changed.
   OPERATOR. Any person who maintains for use or permits the use of, on any
place or premises occupied by him or her, any amusement device as defined in
this section.
   OWNER. Any person engaged in the business of selling or leasing amusement
devices, as defined in this section.
§ 10-24 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All businesses operating amusement machines licensed pursuant to S.C. Code
§ 12-21-2720(A)(3) shall cease operation of said machines between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and between the hours of 12:
00 midnight Saturday and 5:00 a.m. Monday.
§ 10-25 GAMBLING AND GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this article shall in any way be construed to authorize, license
or permit any gambling or gambling devices, the operation of which is made
unlawful under the laws of the state.
§ 10-26 PLACES TO HAVE ENTRANCES OPENING ONTO STREET.
   All places of public amusements, for safety purposes, shall have entrances
which open onto a public street.
§§ 10-27—10-55 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. MUSICAL DEVICES
§ 10-56 HOURS OF OPERATION; GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any place of business having in its possession for
use any piccolo, nickelodeon, radio, television or other music-making machine,
to be open between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m. the following day.
§ 10-57 SAME; COIN-OPERATED MECHANICAL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any coin-operated mechanical
device for making music in any place of business between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 8:00 a.m. or to operate such device between the hours of 12:00
midnight on Saturday and 8:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
§ 10-58 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE LOUDLY.
   It shall be unlawful to operate at any time, any musical device of any
nature, however operated, that is operated so loudly as to make a noise to
disturb the repose of the community; provided that, this section shall not
prohibit the operation of a radio, television, electronic games or other
instruments in the home, which are so operated as not to disturb the peace.
§§ 10-59—10-89 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. POOL HALLS
§ 10-90 TO BE LOCATED ON GROUND FLOOR; MINORS; CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Pool rooms shall be located on the ground floor, and no screen
obstructions of any kind shall be allowed.
   (B)   No minor under 18 years of age shall be allowed to play therein,
except in private homes or clubs where such games are played for social
purposes only and without charge thereof.
   (C)   Pool halls shall close from 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on weekdays and
all day on Sunday.
§ 10-91 TABLE TO BE UNPLUGGED AND COVERED WITH FABRIC DURING CLOSING HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain any pool table, regardless of size or
whether it is coin-operated, unless same is unplugged if electrically operated,
and unless it is covered with a fabric during the hours of closure as set forth
in § 10-90(C) of this chapter.
§§ 10-92—10-110 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 10-111 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CARNIVALS AND STREET SHOWS.
   (A)   All carnival or street shows or any business of the like are hereby
forbidden to show, parade or otherwise engage in business without the written
permission of the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Permits, when issued, shall specify the date, time, place, length of
show, duration of appearance and all other details as may be required by the
Mayor and Council.
§ 10-112 OPERATION OF DANCE HALLS ON SUNDAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep open or operate any public dance
hall, or allow any person to continue to operate, between the hours of 12:00
midnight Saturday and 7:00 a.m. Monday, and all such places shall be and remain
closed to the public between such hours.
CHAPTER 11: RESERVED
CHAPTER 12: CEMETERIES
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   KERSHAW COUNCIL CEMETERY COMMITTEE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
12-1   Grave liners/vaults required
   
12-2   Mausoleums
   
12-3   Funeral home liability; worker requirements
   
12-4   Cemetery Fund and Checking Account created; proceeds to be used for
operating expenses; auditing
   
12-5   Lots; markings; prohibited items
   
12-6   Permits; fees; permanent markers
   12-7—12-30   Reserved
§ 12-1 GRAVE LINERS/VAULTS REQUIRED.
   A grave liner or vault must be placed in the grave prior to placing the
casket in the grave.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 12-2 MAUSOLEUMS.
   (A)   Permit required; definition. Mausoleums may be placed only on cemetery
lots in those portions of the old section of the cemetery where the cemetery
owner has unrestricted privileges to erect monuments or grave markers of any
size and design. The cemetery lot owner, the owner’s heirs, or the owner’s
representative must obtain a permit to place a mausoleum on a cemetery lot
before the construction of the mausoleum begins. As used in this section, the
term THE OLD SECTION OF THE CEMETERY means the area of the cemetery ending at
Section S from Richland Street, Second Street running parallel to Kirkland
Avenue and as further identified on maps maintained by the cemetery manager.
   (B)   Application; contents; grounds for denial. The cemetery lot owner, the
owner’s heirs or the owner’s representative shall file an application for a
permit to place a mausoleum on a cemetery lot. The cemetery lot owner, the
owner’s heirs or the owner’s representative shall include with the application
complete plans and specifications for the mausoleum including, but not limited
to, details on costs, materials, workmanship and methods of construction. Upon
approval of the application by the Council, a permit must be issued for the
placement of a mausoleum on the cemetery lot. The Council may deny an
application for a permit if the Council determines that the estimated cost is
understated or that the structure would be unsafe, unsuitable or undesirable.
   (C)   Deposit required. Prior to the issuance of the mausoleum permit, the
owner, the owner’s heirs, or the owner’s representative shall deposit with the
cemetery manager an amount of money equal to ten percent of the estimated cost
of the mausoleum. Monies deposited with the committee pursuant to this
subsection shall be held in the town’s Cemetery Checking Account. The monies
shall be used for the management, maintenance and upkeep of the cemetery.
   (D)   Abatement for violations. Mausoleums placed on a cemetery lot in
violation of this section shall be removed at the direction of the Council and
the owner, owner’s heirs or owner’s representative is responsible for the cost
of removal.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 12-3 FUNERAL HOME LIABILITY; WORKER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Funeral homes are liable for all damages to markers, headstones or
copings caused during the opening and closing of graves.
   (B)   All work in the cemetery must be discontinued during an internment or
burial service.
   (C)   Whenever any work is being performed in the cemetery, workers must, to
the maximum extent possible:
      (1)   Use walkways;
      (2)   Place planks on plots of grass over which heavy materials or
equipment are to be moved;
      (3)   Remove all rubbish and debris;
      (4)   Restore the avenues and lawns damaged by their work;
      (5)   Minimize trespassing on surrounding lots while in the process of
performing their work;
      (6)   Minimize all obstructions; and
      (7)   Minimize any delays after work has commenced.
   (D)   The following activities or actions by funeral homes and workers are
prohibited:
      (1)   The mixing of mortar or cement in the roadways of the cemetery;
      (2)   The attachment of wires or ropes to any tree, shrub or monument;
and
      (3)   The scattering of materials over adjoining lots.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 12-4 CEMETERY FUND AND CHECKING ACCOUNT CREATED; PROCEEDS TO BE USED FOR
OPERATING EXPENSES; AUDITING.
   (A)   There is created in the town’s General Fund Treasury the Kershaw
Cemetery Fund. Monies collected from memorial donations and sales of cemetery
lots must be deposited in this fund. Monies in the town’s General Fund Treasury
named the Cemetery Account may be invested and reinvested only in those
investments authorized in S.C. Code Ch. 5, Title 6, and the state’s Pooled
Investment Fund. Decisions on the investment of monies in the Cemetery Account
shall be made in the same manner and subject to the same process as other funds
of the town are invested. Earnings from the investment of monies in the fund
must be credited in the town’s General Fund to the Cemetery Account. Unless
otherwise provided by the Council, the principal or corpus of the fund shall be
maintained and shall be used for no other purpose than generating earnings to
be used for the operating expenses of the cemetery.
   (B)   There is created in the town’s General Fund Treasury the Cemetery
Fund. Funds credited to the General Fund’s Cemetery Account must be used only
for the management, upkeep and maintenance of the cemetery. Monies in the
Cemetery Account may be invested and reinvested only in those investments
authorized in S.C. Code §§ 6-5-10 et seq., and the state’s Pooled Investment
Fund. Decisions on the investment of monies in the town’s General Fund Cemetery
Account shall be made in the same manner and subject to the same process as
other funds of the town are invested. Earnings from the investment of monies in
cemetery fund account must be credited to the Cemetery Fund.
   (C)   Monies in the town’s General Fund Cemetery Account are the property of
the town and must be audited in the same manner as other monies of the town.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 12-5 LOTS; MARKINGS; PROHIBITED ITEMS.
   (A)   Title to a cemetery lot vests in the owner the right to use the lot
for burial purposes only for himself or herself, his or her heirs or for any
other person the owner may choose. The cemetery lot and its owner, the owner’s
heirs and the owner’s representatives are at all times subject to the
provisions of this chapter, the terms and conditions contained in the title to
the cemetery lot and to any other rule, regulation, policy or procedure, by
whatever term designated, that may be in force from time to time. The right to
enter upon or cross over any lot in the cemetery is reserved to the town and
its authorized agents. When a person purchases a cemetery lot, the person shall
be provided a copy of this chapter and any rule, regulation, policy or
procedure, by whatever term designated, then in force and the person shall
acknowledge in writing receipt of the materials.
   (B)   Each cemetery lot must be marked with either an iron post or concrete
comer marker placed on each cemetery lot comer and set at or below ground
level. Copings may be placed on the cemetery lot if the coping is set at ground
level. A placement fee is required before copings are added.
   (C)   The cemetery manager shall maintain a record identifying the portions
of the old section of the cemetery where the cemetery owner has unrestricted
privileges to erect monuments or grave markers of any size and design. In all
other areas of the cemetery, monuments and markers must be set at ground level.
As used in this section, the term THE OLD SECTION OF THE CEMETERY means the
area of the cemetery ending at Section S from Richland Street, Second Street
running parallel to Kirkland Avenue. The cemetery manager shall maintain one or
more maps to identify the different areas of the cemetery. (See § 12-6(D).)
   (D)   (1)   The following items or structures are prohibited on or around
any lot in the new cemetery sections:
         (a)   An enclosure of any kind including, but not limited to, hedges
and fences;
         (b)   Stones, rocks or gravel;
         (c)   Raised corners;
         (d)   Trees;
         (e)   Shrubbery; and
         (f)   Natural grown grass is the only permitted plot cover. The use of
any type artificial or synthetic grasses or turfs for plot cover is prohibited.
If existing artificial or synthetic grass is deteriorated or destroyed beyond
25%, it must be removed and cannot be replaced.
      (2)   The committee or cemetery manager may order the removal of any item
or structure on a cemetery lot that is prohibited by this chapter. The cost of
removal by the town shall be assessed on and collected from the cemetery lot
owner, the owner’s heirs or owner’s representative.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-001, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 12-6 PERMITS; FEES; PERMANENT MARKERS.
   (A)   Duty to notify cemetery officials. The cemetery lot owner, the owner’s
heirs or owner’s representative shall notify the Council, or cemetery manager,
of the owner, owner’s heirs or representative’s approval to bury a person at
the cemetery lot.
   (B)   Burial permit fee. A burial permit must be obtained from the cemetery
manager prior to the burial or internment on any cemetery lot. The application
for a burial permit shall be accompanied by the payment of a burial permit fee
in an amount as established from time to time by the town council and set forth
in the schedule of fees and charges, available for public examination in the
town clerk’s office. No burial permit may be issued unless all charges against
the cemetery lot have been paid, unless otherwise approved by the Council and
then only if the owner, owner’s heirs, or owner’s representative agrees in
writing for the payment of any outstanding charges. When a burial permit is
issued, the person shall be provided a copy of this chapter and any rule,
regulation, policy or procedure, by whatever term designated, then in force and
the person shall acknowledge in writing receipt of the materials. All burials
withing the Kershaw Cemetery will only be conducted by the official contracted
town burial provider.
   (C)   Permanent markers.
      (1)   Fee. In addition to payment of a burial permit fee, a permanent
marker fee in an amount as established from time to time by the Town Council
and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for public
examination in the Town Clerk’s office must be paid not later than the time the
application for a burial permit is filed. The permanent marker fee shall be
refunded to the payee if a permanent marker is placed on the cemetery lot not
later than 12-months after the burial or internment.
      (2)   Required; time restriction. A permanent marker must be placed over
each grave by the cemetery lot owner, the owner’s heirs or owner’s
representative within 12-months after the burial or internment. If the
permanent marker is not installed within 12-months after the burial or
interment, then the Council shall provide for the installation of a permanent
marker using the permanent marker fee paid at the time the burial permit was
obtained. Permanent markers must be set at ground level.
      (3)   Maintenance care fee. Prior to the erection or installation of a
permanent marker or monument, the cemetery lot owner, the owner’s heirs or the
owner’s representative, is required to pay a maintenance care fee in an amount
as established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the
schedule of fees and charges, available for public examination in the Town
Clerk’s office.
   (D)   Coping placement fee. Prior to the placement or installation of coping
around a grave, the cemetery lot owner, the owner’s heirs or the owner’s
representative, is required to pay a coping placement fee in an amount as
established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the schedule
of fees and charges, available for public examination in the Town Clerk’
office. All coping in the new cemetery section must be installed at ground
level.
   (E)   Disposition of fees. Fees collected pursuant to this section must be
credited to the town’s General Fund Cemetery Account.
   (F)   Manager’s responsibilities. The cemetery manager shall issue the
burial permit if the requirements of this article have been met and all charges
against the cemetery lot are paid. The cemetery manager is responsible for
entering the burial information into the cemetery records and providing
information to funeral homes on required permits and fees.
   (G)   Schedule of fees.
      (1)   All fees must be paid before burial.
      (2)   Fees and charges are available for public examination in the
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§§ 12-7—12-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: KERSHAW COUNCIL CEMETERY COMMITTEE
Section
   
12-31   Established
   
12-32   Responsibilities
   
12-34   Responsibility for removal of trash, debris, flowers and the like
   
12-35   Special authorization
§ 12-31 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Composition. The Mayor shall appoint two Council members to serve as
the Council Cemetery Committee.
   (B)   Terms. Terms shall be four years, coinciding with the Mayor’s terms of
office.
   (C)   Vacancies. Vacancies must be filled for the unexpired term in the same
manner as the original appointment.
   (D)   Removal; Mayor to serve as ex officio member. The Mayor serves on the
committee, ex officio.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 12-32 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Council Committee is responsible for:
      (1)   The solicitation of funds for the cemetery;
      (2)   The sale of cemetery lots;
      (3)   The maintenance of cemetery maps; and
      (4)   Overseeing the management, upkeep and maintenance of the cemetery.
   (B)   The Council Committee may recommend to the Town Administrator the
employment of persons or entities, including a cemetery manager, as a
contracted employee, to provide for the fulfillment of any one or more of the
committee’s responsibilities. The compensation for persons or entities employed
for cemetery purposes shall be paid from funds designated for the payment of
cemetery expenses from the General Fund Cemetery Account. The Council Committee
will provide the cemetery manager a job description of duties and
responsibilities.
   (C)   The Town Council shall hire a burial contractor to open and close all
graves in the Kershaw Cemetery. A contract shall be written between the town
and the contractor establishing these services and the rates. The compensation
for persons or entities employed for cemetery purposes shall be paid from funds
designated for the payment of cemetery expenses from the General Fund Cemetery
Account. One duty of the cemetery manager is to notify the burial contractor of
the specific dates of any and all scheduled burials.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 12-34 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL OF TRASH, DEBRIS, FLOWERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The town is responsible for the removal of trash and debris from the
cemetery.
   (B)   The cemetery lot owner, the owner’s heirs or the owner’s
representative shall clean off the cemetery lot not later than seven days after
burial. The Council Committee shall provide for the cleaning off of the
cemetery lot if the cemetery lot remains uncleaned after seven days of the
burial.
   (C)   Neither the town nor the Council Committee has any responsibility for
the protection or maintenance of fresh, seasonal or artificial flowers placed
on any cemetery lot. The cemetery lot owner, the owner’s heirs or the owner’s
representative is responsible for maintaining and watering any fresh flowers
placed on a cemetery lot.
   (D)   The Council Committee shall provide for the removal of any flowers
placed on a cemetery lot if the flowers have become faded, unsightly or
detrimental to the environment of the cemetery.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 12-35 SPECIAL AUTHORIZATION.
   The Council is authorized to place special memorials and flowers upon the
grave site of John T. Stevens when the Committee, in its discretion, determines
appropriate, the cost of which shall be paid from the town’s General Fund
Cemetery Account.
(Ord. 2021-003, passed 3-15-2021)
CHAPTER 13: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      Article
         
1.   ADOPTION
ARTICLE 1: ADOPTION
Section
   
13-1   Adoption of Lancaster County Comprehensive Plan
§ 13-1 ADOPTION OF LANCASTER COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The text, existing land use map and future land use map pertaining to the
town, contained in the Comprehensive Plan of Lancaster County, is hereby
adopted in its entirety. The Comprehensive Plan complies with all the
requirements of the Local Government Planning Enabling Act of 1994, being S.C.
Code §§ 6-29-310 et seq., as the 2014-2024 Comprehensive Plan for the Town of
Kershaw.
(Ord. 161, passed 3-16-2015)
   Kershaw - Courts
CHAPTER 14: COURTS
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   WITNESSES AND JUROR COMPENSATION
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
14-1   Municipal Court established
   
14-2   No authority to appoint constable
   
14-3   Appointment; Municipal Judge
   
14-4   Same; Acting Judge
   
14-5   Clerk of Court designated; recordkeeping
   
14-6   Sessions to be held at regular place
   14-7—14-30   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   The town has made an arrangement for Municipal Court services with Lancaster
County Central Magistrate System.
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of municipal courts for violations of the Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways, see S.C. Code § 56-5-6150
   Municipal courts, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-5 et seq.
   Trial of persons charged with violations of ordinances or state laws, see
S.C. Code § 5-7-90
§ 14-1 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court, which shall be a part of the
unified judicial system of the state.
§ 14-2 NO AUTHORITY TO APPOINT CONSTABLE.
   The Court shall not have the authority of a magistrate to appoint a
constable.
§ 14-3 APPOINTMENT; MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   Term; compensation. The Court shall be presided over by a Municipal
Judge, who shall be appointed by the Council for a term not to exceed four
years and shall receive such compensation as determined by the Council.
   (B)   Oath. Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his or her
office, he or she shall take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by
state law.
   (C)   No residency requirement. The Judge shall not be required to be a
resident of the town.
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, see S.C. Const. Art. VI, § 5
§ 14-4 SAME; ACTING JUDGE.
   The Council may appoint a competent person as Acting Judge during the
absence, sickness, incapacity or other disqualification of the Municipal Judge.
§ 14-5 CLERK OF COURT DESIGNATED; RECORDKEEPING.
   The Council may designate a Clerk of Court, who shall keep such records and
make such reports as may be required by the Judge or State Court Administrator.
§ 14-6 SESSIONS TO BE HELD AT REGULAR PLACE.
   The Council shall establish a regular place for the Court to hold its
sessions.
§§ 14-7—14-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: WITNESSES AND JUROR COMPENSATION
Section
   
14-31   Refusal to appear; witness
   
14-32   Same; defendant
   
14-33   Juror compensation
§ 14-31 REFUSAL TO APPEAR; WITNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, refuse or neglect to appear
before the Municipal Court after having been duly summoned to give evidence in
any cause there pending for trial, or to refuse to testify as a witness, when
lawfully required to do so.
§ 14-32 SAME; DEFENDANT.
   In the event any person charged with any offense against the ordinances of
the town shall be summoned to appear, if he or she has not already been
arrested and given bail and answered to said charges, at a day therein fixed,
not later than five days after the date of said summons, and such person so
summoned neglects, refuses or fails to appear at the time specified, the
Municipal Court shall proceed with the trial of said case, as though the
defendant were present.
§ 14-33 JUROR COMPENSATION.
   Jurors shall be paid per session. Such fee shall be in an amount as
established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the schedule
of rates and fees, available for public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
CHAPTER 15: RESERVED
CHAPTER 16: ENVIRONMENT
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   BEAUTIFICATION AND IMPROVEMENT
COMMISSION
         
III.   DROUGHT RESPONSE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
16-1   Definitions
   
16-2   Utility companies exempted from chapter
   
16-3   Damaging or destroying flowers, shrubs and trees prohibited
   
16-4   Prohibited acts
   
16-5   Protection and planting of trees on public property
   16-6—16-26   Reserved
§ 16-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   TREE. Any woody plant which:
      (1)   Has a trunk four inches or more in diameter at four and one-half
feet above the ground; or
      (2)   Is of horticultural or ornamental variety including, but not
limited to, dogwood, redbud, crabapple, buckeye or holly and has a trunk
diameter of three inches or more at one foot above the ground or a height of
eight or more feet.
   TREE PROTECTIVE ZONE. Public property, including that owned entirely by any
public body, or over which it holds a right-of-way or easement on any street,
road, park, mall or other public lands.
§ 16-2 UTILITY COMPANIES EXEMPTED FROM CHAPTER.
   Public and private utility companies shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter; provided, they file with the Town Clerk the policies and
procedures followed in their flower, shrub and tree trimming and removal
practices and provided a mutually acceptable standard is agreed upon by the
utility and the Council.
§ 16-3 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING FLOWERS, SHRUBS AND TREES PROHIBITED.
   Each flower, shrub or tree destroyed or damaged in violation of this section
shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 16-4 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall on public property, as commonly defined:
      (1)   Damage, cut, carve, abuse or harm any flower, shrub or tree or
injure the bark of any tree;
      (2)   Pick the flowers or seeds of any flower, shrub or tree;
      (3)   Attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any shrub or tree
unless necessary for its support; or
      (4)   Trim, spray, plant, set out or remove flowers, shrubs or trees
without obtaining prior written approval from the commission or its designated
representative.
   (B)   The planting of trees and shrubs are hereby prohibited on street
rights-of-way in the town without first obtaining a written permit from the
Town Clerk. No permit will be issued until the type, size and location of the
tree or shrub is determined and it is determined that the same will not
obstruct sight distance at any intersection. When any street or road under the
control of the SCDOT is involved, departmental concurrence will be required.
§ 16-5 PROTECTION AND PLANTING OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose. To enhance the quality of life and the present and future
health, safety, and welfare of all residents, to enhance property values, and
to ensure proper planting and care of trees on public property, the Town
Council herein delegates the authority and responsibility for managing public
trees, establishes practices governing the planting and care of trees on public
property, and makes provision for the emergency removal of trees on private
property under certain conditions.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings
indicated:
      DAMAGE. Any injury to or destruction of a tree, including but not limited
to: uprooting; severance of all or part of the root system or main trunk;
storage of material on or compaction of surrounding soil; a substantial change
in the natural grade above a root system or around a trunk; surrounding the
tree with impervious paving materials; or any trauma caused by accident or
collision.
      NUISANCE. Any tree, or limb thereof, that has an infectious disease or
insect; is dead or dying; obstructs the view of traffic signs or the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or threatens public health, safety, and
welfare.
      PARKWAY. The area along a public street between the curb and the
sidewalk; or if there is no curb or sidewalk, the unpaved portion of the area
between the street right-of-way line and the paved portion of the street or
alley.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. All grounds and rights-of-way (ROWs) owned or maintained
by the town.
      PUBLIC TREE. Any tree or woody vegetation on town-owned or town-
maintained property
or rights-of-way.
      TOP OR TOPPING. The non-standard practice of cutting back of limbs to
stubs within a tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy
and disfigure the tree.
   (C)   Authority and power.
      (1)   Delegation of authority and responsibility. The Town Administrator
and/or their designee, hereinafter referred to as the ADMINISTRATOR, shall have
full authority and responsibility to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees
and woody plants growing in or upon all municipal streets, rights-of-way, town
parks, and other public property. This shall include the removal of trees that
may threaten electrical, telephone, gas, or any municipal water or sewer line,
or any tree that is affected by fungus, insect, or other pest disease.
      (2)   Coordination among town departments. All town departments will
coordinate as necessary with the Administrator and will provide services as
required to ensure compliance with this section as it relates to streets,
alleys, rights-of-way, drainage, easements, and other public properties not
under direct jurisdiction of the Administrator.
      (3)   Interference. No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere
with the Administrator or his or her agents while engaged in carrying out the
execution or enforcement of this section.
   (D)   Tree planting and care standards.
      (1)   Standards. All planting and maintenance of public trees shall
conform to the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 "Standards
for Tree Care Operations" and shall follow all tree care Best Management
Practices (BMPs) published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
      (2)   Requirements of franchise utility companies. The maintenance of
public trees for utility clearance shall conform to all applicable utility
industry standards.
      (3)   Preferred species list. The Administrator shall maintain an
official list of desirable tree species for planting on public property in two
size classes: ornamental (20 feet or less in height at maturity) and shade
(greater than 20 feet at maturity). Trees from this approved list may be
planted without special permission; other species may be planted with written
approval from the Administrator.
      (4)   Planting distances. The Administrator shall develop and maintain an
official set of spacing requirements for the planting of trees on public
property. No tree may be planted within the visibility triangle of a street
intersection or within ten feet of a fire hydrant.
      (5)   Planting trees under electric utility lines. Only trees listed as
ornamental trees on the official town tree species list may be planted under or
within 15 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
   (E)   Prohibition against harming public trees.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
damage, remove, or cause the damage or removal of a tree on public property
without written permission from the Administrator.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to attach
any cable, wire, sign, or any other object to any street, park, or public tree.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to top
any public tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, where best
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this provision at the
determination of the Administrator.
      (4)   Any person, firm, corporation, or town department performing
construction near any public tree(s) shall consult with the Administrator and
shall employ appropriate measures to protect the tree(s), according to
procedures contained in the Best Management Practices (BMPs) for "Managing
Trees During Construction" published by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
      (5)   Each violation of this section as determined and notified by the
Administrator shall constitute a separate violation, punishable by fines and
penalties under subsection (G), in addition to mitigation values placed on the
tree(s) removed or damaged in violation of this section.
   (F)   Adjacent owner responsibility.
      (1)   The owner of land adjacent to any town street or highway, when
acting within the provisions of this section, may plant and maintain trees in
the adjacent parkway area.
      (2)   No property owner shall allow a tree, or other plant growing on his
or her property to obstruct or interfere with pedestrians or the view of
drivers, thereby creating a hazard. If an obstruction persists, the
Administrator shall notify the property owner to prune or remove the tree or
plant. If the owner fails to comply with the notice, the town may undertake the
necessary work and charge the cost to the property owner.
   (G)   Violations and penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense.
   (H)   Appeals. Appeals to decisions by the Administrator, or to penalties
imposed after violations of this section, shall be heard by Town Council.
(Ord. 2023-020, passed 11-20-2023)
§§ 16-6—16-26 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BEAUTIFICATION AND IMPROVEMENT COMMISSION
Section
   
16-27   Established
   
16-28   Composition; terms; compensation
   
16-29   Meetings
   
16-30   Reports
   
16-31   Function, authority and responsibility
   
16-32   Town Council review; appeals
   
16-33   Interfering with Commission prohibited
   16-34—16-54   Reserved
§ 16-27 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created and established a “Beautification and Improvement
Commission”, hereinafter called the “Commission”, when appointed.
§ 16-28 COMPOSITION; TERMS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Membership shall consist of seven members.
   (B)   Members shall be appointed for three-year staggered terms by the
Mayor, and the terms shall expire in each even-numbered year. A member shall
continue to serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualifies.
   (C)   Commission members shall serve without compensation. Any member who
resigns shall be replaced by appointment by the Mayor for the unexpired term of
that member.
§ 16-29 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet in July of each year to organize and elect
from its group a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Secretary and Chairperson of
Publicity. Officers shall serve for one year. The Commission shall meet on call
by the Chairperson. In his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson may call such
meetings.
   (B)   The Chairperson may appoint such temporary committees from within or
outside the membership of the Commission as may be deemed necessary to effect
the functions of the Commission.
   (C)   Minutes of meetings shall be kept in written form as a permanent
record. Copies of the minutes shall be forwarded to the Town Council.
   (D)   Any member having three unexcused consecutive absences shall be
automatically removed from the Commission, and the unexpired term filled by
appointment by the Mayor.
   (E)   The Robert’s Rules of Order, most current edition, and the state’s
Freedom of Information Act (S.C. Code §§ 30-4-10 through 30-4-165) shall be
followed as a procedure guide for all meetings. A quorum shall consist of a
majority of the members of the Commission, and a quorum shall be present to
conduct business.
§ 16-30 REPORTS.
   The Commission shall report at least annually to the Council as to the
activities, programs and needs of the Commission and shall make such other
reports as may be requested by the Council.
§ 16-31 FUNCTION, AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The function of the Commission shall be to:
      (1)   Promote compliance with all environmental projects of the town;
      (2)   Determine and promote ways for making its highway approaches
thereto and the surrounding areas more attractive and aesthetically pleasing to
the eye; and
      (3)   Encourage specifically the preservation, protection and replacement
of trees, flowers and shrubs within the town and prevent their unnecessary
destruction pursuant to the general police powers of the town.
   (B)   The Commission shall study and compile its financial needs and each
year shall recommend an annual budget to the Mayor and, upon approval thereby,
shall help implement same. The annual budget may include both operating and
capital expenses. Budgeted revenue sources may include revenues from the town’s
General Fund, private donations and from any state or federal government grant
programs and other sources. In recommending the annual budget, the Commission
may designate certain revenues to be used for designated purposes and certain
revenues set aside in a special account for future projects. The Council shall
be furnished a monthly report of the revenues and disbursements of the
Commission as may be required by the Council. All funds and payment of bills
for goods or services shall be approved by the Council.
   (C)   The Commission shall not enter into any contracts involving financial
liability or incur any indebtedness, except upon written authority from the
Council; provided, however, the Commission may enter into agreements for the
purpose of effecting its objectives, when no liability of the town is involved.
§ 16-32 TOWN COUNCIL REVIEW; APPEALS.
   The Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, proposals,
recommendations, programs and decisions of the Commission. Any person may
appeal from any ruling or order of the Commission to the Council which may hear
the matter and make final decision.
§ 16-33 INTERFERING WITH COMMISSION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Commission, or any
of its agents, while engaging in planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removing trees on public or private grounds.
§§ 16-34—16-54 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: DROUGHT RESPONSE
Section
   
16-55   Ordinances retained
   
16-56   Emergency water restriction measures
Editor’s note:
   In 1985, the General Assembly adopted the South Carolina Drought Response
Act, being S.C. Code §§ 49-23-10 et seq. The act required that “...every public
entity in this state engaged in the business or activity of supplying water for
any purpose shall develop and implement drought response ordinances...” The act
is now enforced by the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (SCDNR).
§ 16-55 ORDINANCES RETAINED.
   (A)   The provisions ordained in the Drought Response Ordinance of 1987 by a
subsequent ordinance adopted 10-14-1996 are not rescinded by this code.
   (B)   The provisions thereof shall continue in full force and effect, until
such time as amended by the Council.
§ 16-56 EMERGENCY WATER RESTRICTION MEASURES.
   Emergency water restriction measures will be implemented by either the town
Administrator, Mayor or the Mayor Pro Tempore that go beyond the scope of the
Drought Response Ordinance of 1987 as needed during times of water emergencies.
This includes, but is not limited to, the restriction of all non- essential
outside water use such as car-washing (residential, commercial or otherwise)
and landscape and garden maintenance and construction (sprinkler device,
handheld or otherwise).
(Ord. 96, passed 8-5-2002)
CHAPTER 17: RESERVED
CHAPTER 18: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   FIRE CHIEF
         
III.   PROHIBITED CONDUCT
         
IV.   FIREMEN’S INSURANCE AND INSPECTION FUND
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
18-1   Official fire district established
   
18-2   Fire Department designated
   
18-3   Department membership; compensation
   
18-4   Right of entry during emergency
   
18-5   Right-of-way when responding to alarms
   
18-6   Law enforcement officers and Fire Department personnel to enforce
chapter blocking procedures
   
18-7   Annual inspections required; notice of defects or hazards
   
18-8   Inspection reports to be furnished to Council
   
18-9   Council notice to correct, remove or discontinue identified hazards;
penalty
   
18-10   Duty to investigate; report to be filed with State Fire Marshal
   
18-11   Department authority to respond to fires outside corporate limits
   
18-12   Authority to bill property owner’s insurance carrier
   
18-13   Display of fireworks
   18-14—18-44   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   The town has made an arrangement for fire service with the county, and the
service is provided by volunteers who must be certified by the Fire Chief. The
Department is a combination town/county department, and all firefighters are
volunteer members for both parties. The equipment (vehicles) is owned
individually by both entities. Funding is provided by both the town and county
as well as volunteer fundraisers. The town has two full-time firefighter that
is contracted through the county.
Statutory reference:
   Fire departments, see S.C. Code § 5-25-20
   Operation of emergency vehicles, see S.C. Code § 56-5-760
   Requirement that every city appoint a fire chief, see S.C. Code § 5-25-110
§ 18-1 OFFICIAL FIRE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   The official fire district of the town, when ordained, shall be as shown on
a map of the town and filed in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 18-2 FIRE DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED.
   The Fire Department is hereby designated as the “Kershaw Fire Department”.
§ 18-3 DEPARTMENT MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   The Department shall consist of such volunteers as may be approved by the
membership and they shall serve without remuneration.
§ 18-4 RIGHT OF ENTRY DURING EMERGENCY.
   In a fire emergency, while endeavoring to control or extinguish fires,
members of the Department, under order of the Chief or his or her designated
representative may reasonably pass through and enter any adjacent buildings or
property.
§ 18-5 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN RESPONDING TO ALARMS.
   All motor equipment of the Fire Department, law enforcement agencies, other
emergency vehicles and the vehicles of firefighters shall have the right-of-way
over all other vehicles, when responding to an alarm.
§ 18-6 LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL TO ENFORCE
CHAPTER; BLOCKING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Law enforcement officers and authorized fire personnel shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter, as appropriate.
   (B)   Immediately upon their arrival at the scene of a fire, and subject to
availability of personnel, they shall station one police officer at each end of
the block wherein the fire occurs.
   (C)   They may require motor vehicles or other vehicles parked within the
area to be moved immediately.
§ 18-7 ANNUAL INSPECTIONS REQUIRED; NOTICE OF DEFECTS OR HAZARDS.
   (A)   At least once in each and every year, the Inspector shall make a
general inspection of all buildings in the corporate limits and ascertain if
the laws and ordinances in reference to fire protection are complied with.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Inspector to notify the occupant and
owner of all premises of any defects or hazards found in the general inspection
to see that they are properly corrected and that dangerous inflammable
conditions on the premises are removed.
Statutory reference:
   Annual inspections required, see S.C. Code § 5-25-370
§ 18-8 INSPECTION REPORTS TO BE FURNISHED TO COUNCIL.
   The Inspector shall report to the Council the results of fire inspections as
warranted. He or she shall furnish such other information and make such other
reports as shall be called for by the state’s Fire Marshal.
§ 18-9 COUNCIL NOTICE TO CORRECT, REMOVE OR DISCONTINUE IDENTIFIED HAZARDS;
PENALTY.
   (A)   The Council may issue an order for the immediate correction, removal
or discontinuance of any identified hazard.
   (B)   If the hazard is not corrected within the time fixed in the notice,
the offending party, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Failure to correct defects in new building, see S.C. Code § 5-25-410
   Failure to correct defects in unsafe or dangerous building, see S.C. Code
§ 5-25-420
§ 18-10 DUTY TO INVESTIGATE; REPORT TO BE FILED WITH STATE FIRE MARSHAL.
   The Inspector shall hold an inquiry into the origin of every fire occurring
within the limits of the town and file a report in writing of his or her
investigation to the state’s Fire Marshal.
Statutory reference:
   Building Inspector’s duty to report investigation to State Fire Marshal, see
S.C. Code § 5-25-170
   Requirement that Building Inspector must inquire into the origin of every
fire, see S.C. Code § 5-25-160
§ 18-11 DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY TO RESPOND TO FIRES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Fire Department is authorized hereby to respond to fire calls outside
the corporate limits.
§ 18-12 AUTHORITY TO BILL PROPERTY OWNER’S INSURANCE CARRIER.
   The town’s Fire Department is hereby authorized to bill a service charge to
the insurance carrier of all property owners within the corporate limits for
emergency fire responses by the Department pursuant to the following schedule.
   (A)   Vegetation fires shall be exempt from service fees.
   (B)   Hazardous material incidents shall be charged a fee for each
individual firefighter. An additional fee shall be charged to cover the cost of
any supplies or equipment used.
   (C)   The hazardous fees shall be billed to the hazardous material handler
or carrier.
   (D)   Such fees shall be in an amount as established from time to time by
the Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available
for public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 18-13 DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Regulations for outside fireworks display. Any person who desires to
hold an outdoor fireworks display shall first obtain a permit from the town at
least ten days prior to the date of the display. Fireworks displays are not
permitted in the downtown area of the town, which includes the following
streets: entire Hampton Street from the intersection with South Matson Street
to the intersection with Hilton Street and Cleveland Street from the
intersection with South Matson to the intersection with Hilton Street.
   (B)   Prohibited times for discharge of fireworks. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of the town, it shall be a public nuisance for any person to
discharge or permit the discharge of any fireworks between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m. of the following day; except, on December 31, the permitted
hours shall be from 9:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m, the following day.
   (C)   Penalty. The civil penalty for creating a public nuisance by
discharging fireworks contrary to the provisions of this section is $50.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 5-30-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for fireworks displays, see S.C. Code § 23-35-45
§§ 18-14—18-44 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: FIRE CHIEF
Section
   
18-45   Appointed
   
18-46   Duties
   
18-47   Command at scene of fire
   
18-48   Possession and control of buildings on fire
   
18-49   Chief or designee to serve as Fire Inspector
   18-50—18-71   Reserved
§ 18-45 APPOINTED.
   The Chief of the Department shall be appointed by the Council upon
recommendation from the membership.
§ 18-46 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to:
   (A)   Direct the activities of the Fire Department at fires and at all other
times to provide for the training of firefighters;
   (B)   Ensure the equipment of the Fire Department is always ready for use;
   (C)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the
Council, this chapter and any other ordinance; and
   (D)   Utilize all means at his or her disposal to prevent the outbreak of
fires and to enforce all laws and ordinances concerning:
      (1)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
      (2)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other private
fire alarm systems and fire extinguishing equipment;
      (3)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes, where available;
      (4)   The elimination of hazards in buildings and structures, including
those under construction;
      (5)   The means and adequacy of exits in case of fire from schools,
churches, halls and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live or
congregate from time to time for any purpose; and
      (6)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires.
§ 18-47 COMMAND AT SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Chief shall have the control of operations at the scene of a fire.
In the event of his or her incapacity or absence, his or her duties shall
devolve upon a member of the Fire Department designated by the Fire Chief.
§ 18-48 POSSESSION AND CONTROL OF BUILDINGS ON FIRE.
   Immediately upon his or her arrival on the premises, the Fire Chief or his
or her designee shall have sole and absolute possession and control of any and
all buildings on fire within the town and shall so remain in possession and
control until the fire shall be extinguished and the premises abandoned by the
Fire Department.
§ 18-49 CHIEF OR DESIGNEE TO SERVE AS FIRE INSPECTOR.
   The Fire Chief or a designee in coordination with the county’s Fire Marshal
shall serve as the Fire Inspector for the town.
Statutory reference:
   Local Building Inspectors, see S.C. Code § 5-25-120
§§ 18-50—18-71 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: PROHIBITED CONDUCT
Section
   
18-72   Failing to obey lawful orders
   
18-73   Giving false alarms
   
18-74   Opening or tampering with fire hydrants
   
18-75   Obstructing or interfering with fire equipment or personnel
   
18-76   Following or parking near fire equipment; bystanders
   
18-77   Riding upon fire trucks without permission
   
18-78   Driving over fire hose
§ 18-72 FAILING TO OBEY LAWFUL ORDERS.
   The failure to obey any lawful order of any official of the Fire Department
or Police Department at the scene of any emergency shall constitute a violation
of this article.
§ 18-73 GIVING FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give a false fire alarm by
telephoning, informing any person that an emergency exists, knowing the same to
be untrue, or in any other manner, communicating falsely to the Fire Department
that an emergency exists.
Statutory reference:
   Giving false alarms, see S.C. Code § 16-17-570
§ 18-74 OPENING OR TAMPERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open or otherwise tamper
with a fire hydrant.
§ 18-75 OBSTRUCTING OR INTERFERING WITH FIRE EQUIPMENT OR PERSONNEL.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle within 15 feet of a fire hydrant nor
otherwise cause any obstruction to the fire equipment at a fire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or obstruct the activities of
any member of the Fire Department who is acting in his or her official capacity
or when proceeding to a fire.
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing or parking of vehicles prohibited in certain places, see
S.C. Code § 56-5-2530
§ 18-76 FOLLOWING OR PARKING NEAR FIRE EQUIPMENT; BYSTANDERS.
   (A)   No driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, shall
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where the fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to an alarm.
   (B)   Bystanders shall stay a safe distance away as determined by the
officer in charge.
Statutory reference:
   Following fire apparatus prohibited, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1960
§ 18-77 RIDING UPON FIRE TRUCKS WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a member of the Fire
Department to ride upon any fire truck without permission from the Fire Chief.
§ 18-78 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without permission of the Fire Chief,
to drive a vehicle of any description over or across a fire hose stretched or
laid upon the ground for use at a fire or for any other lawful purpose of the
Fire Department.
Statutory reference:
   Driving over fire hose prohibited, see S.C. Code § 56-5-3850
§ 18-79 USING FIRE EQUIPMENT WITHOUT CONSENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to use, borrow or tamper
with any equipment of the Fire Department without the express consent of the
Fire Chief. The term EQUIPMENT means all vehicles, firefighting apparatus,
supplies, facilities or other material belonging to the Fire Department.
§ 18-80 BURNING TRASH OR HAVING BONFIRE WITHOUT PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to burn any trash or to have a bonfire within the
corporate limits, without first obtaining a permit from the Fire Chief and
permission from the property owner.
§ 18-81 PERMITTING FIRE HAZARDS ON PREMISES; NOTICE; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner, tenant or
occupant to permit, allow or cause any condition, accumulation, growth or
structure, or other matter, to exist upon any lot, building or premises so as
to constitute or create a fire hazard, or to increase the menace of a fire.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her authorized agent may notify any person of
a violation of this section and require proper action or precautions.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, within seven calendar days of such notice,
to eliminate said fire hazard, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
§§ 18-82—18-105 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: FIREMEN’S INSURANCE AND
INSPECTION FUND
Section
   
18-106   Membership in State Firefighter’s Association
   
18-107   Designated trustees; compensation
   
18-108   Benefits accepted
   
18-109   Procedure for receipt and disbursement of funds
   
18-110   Use of funds
   
18-111   Disbursements
   
18-112   Annual report filed with State Fire Marshal
§ 18-106 MEMBERSHIP IN STATE FIREFIGHTER’S ASSOCIATION.
   The town shall be a member of the State Firefighter’s Association as
required for participation in the Firemen’s Insurance and Inspection Fund. The
town shall pay to the Treasurer of the Association 5% of the gross proceeds
received annually from the 1% tax on fire insurance allocated to the town.
§ 18-107 DESIGNATED TRUSTEES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five people to include the
Chairperson of the Fire Committee, Town Treasurer, Fire Chief and two appointed
citizens of the town. One citizen to be appointed by the Mayor and one citizen
to be appointed by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   They shall serve four-year terms without compensation.
(Ord. 2023-015, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 18-108 BENEFITS ACCEPTED.
   The town hereby accepts the benefits of the fund.
§ 18-109 PROCEDURE FOR RECEIPT AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk is hereby authorized to receive the benefits of said
fund from the County Treasurer. All such funds shall be deposited in a special
checking account and paid out only upon approval of the Trustees.
   (B)   Any disbursement of $100 or more shall first be submitted to the
supervising trustees of the State Firefighter’s Association with a statement of
how such funds are to be expended.
   (C)   Upon written approval thereof, of the manner and method by which the
funds are to be disbursed, the expenditure shall be made.
   (D)   If a proposed disbursement is legal and in accordance with law, it
shall be mandatory upon such supervising Trustees to give their approval.
Statutory reference:
   Firemen’s Insurance and Inspection Fund, see S.C. Code §§ 23-9-310 et seq.
§ 18-110 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the members of the Department, by a majority vote, shall provide
for the expenditure of any such funds for the collective benefit and enjoyment
of the entire Department, it shall be mandatory for the local Trustees and the
Trustees of the State Firefighter’s Association to approve such expenditure.
   (B)   No such funds shall be expended in any manner for any purpose for
which the town may be legally liable.
   (C)   No funds shall be divided among the firefighters in cash.
§ 18-111 DISBURSEMENTS.
   All disbursements shall be by check and signed by the Fire Chief and Town
Clerk or Mayor.
§ 18-112 ANNUAL REPORT FILED WITH STATE FIRE MARSHAL.
   The Town Clerk shall submit a report to the state’s Fire Marshal annually,
as required, on or before October 31 of each year.
CHAPTER 19: RESERVED
CHAPTER 20: FLOODS
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   ADMINISTRATION
         
III.   FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
         
IV.   VARIANCE PROCEDURES
         
V.   LEGAL STATUS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
20-1   Definitions
   
20-2   Penalties
   
20-3   Statutory authorization
   
20-4   Findings
   
20-5   Purpose; objectives; asset to community
   
20-6   Applicability
   
20-7   Development permit required
   
20-8   Compliance with chapter required
   
20-9   Interpretation
   
20-10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   20-11—20-40   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   The Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance was amended by the adoption of the
South Carolina Department of Natural Resources Model Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, Version 07, dated February 2011, and is available for reference and
review at the office of the Clerk.
§ 20-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure which is located on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage sheds are common
URBAN ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like qualify as
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the same parcel
as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure. ADDITIONS TO EXISTING BUILDINGS
shall comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to
whether the addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or
load-bearing wall is provided between the addition and the existing building,
the ADDITION shall be considered a separate building and must comply with the
standards for new construction.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes in
which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES are not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the local administrator’s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths of one foot to three feet
where:
      (1)   A clearly defined channel does not exist;
      (2)   The path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; and
      (3)   Velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building which is below grade on all sides.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns, piers or shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining rates, means
structures for which the start of construction commenced before the effective
date of the FIRM, or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, is
completed before 2-3-2003.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum of 72 hours) with flood waters without
sustaining damage which requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair.
      (1)   The term FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL includes pressure-treated lumber
or naturally decay-resistant lumber, which are acceptable flooring materials.
      (2)   The term FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL does not include:
         (a)   Any material which is water soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above grade use;
         (b)   Sheet-type flooring coverings which restrict evaporation from
below and materials which are impervious, but are dimensionally unstable are
not acceptable materials; and/or
         (c)   Materials which absorb or retain water excessively after
submergence.
      (3)   Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2-93, Flood-Resistant Materials
for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas in Accordance with the
National Flood Insurance Program, document number FIA-TB-2, dated April 1993,
and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5
materials, referenced therein, are acceptable FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIALS.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.
      (1)   A facility which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it
is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities.
      (2)   The term FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI)) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
the Interior to qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      (2)   Some structures or districts listed on the state or local
inventories may not be HISTORIC as cited in this definition, but have been
included on the inventories because it was believed that the structures or
districts have the potential for meeting the HISTORIC STRUCTURE criteria of the
DOI. In order for these structures to meet National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) historic structure criteria, it must be demonstrated and evidenced that
the state department of archives and history has individually determined that
the structure or district meets DOI historic structure criteria.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant or breakaway
material, void of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be
temperature controlled. If the area is located below the base flood elevation
in an A, AE and an A1-A30 Zone, it must meet the requirements of § 20-63(E) of
this chapter. If the area is located below the base flood elevation in an V, VE
and an V1-V30 Zone, it must meet the requirements of § 20-96(I) of this
chapter.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area. Any finished or
flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such an enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of other provisions of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities.
      (2)   The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term MEAN SEA LEVEL is synonymous
with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD).
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, means the
elevation reference points set by the National Geodetic Survey based on mean
sea level.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. A structure for which the start of construction commenced
after the effective date of the first floodplain management code, ordinance or
standard based upon specific technical base flood elevation data which
establishes the area of special flood hazard or a specific date. The term NEW
CONSTRUCTION also includes any subsequent improvements to such structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs is completed on or after 2-3-2003.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). The datum point established at Pointe-
au-Pere on the St. Lawrence River, Quebec Province, Canada, based on the mass
or density of the earth. The datum listed as the reference datum on flood
insurance rate maps should be used for elevation certificate and flood-proofing
certificate completion.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (1)   The term ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure, including a manufactured home, on a site, such as
the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation.
      (2)   The term “permanent construction” does not include:
         (a)   Land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling;
         (b)   The installation of streets and walkways;
         (c)   Excavation for footings, piers or foundations, or the erection
of temporary forms; or
         (d)   The installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
      (3)   The term ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION, for a substantial
improvement, means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, including a
gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made facility or infrastructure that
is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
See SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement.
      (1)   The term SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT does not include, either:
         (a)   Any project of improvement to a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to ensure safe living conditions (does not include
Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. compliance
standards); or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (3)   Permits shall be cumulative for a period of five years. If the
improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated
with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be
utilized to determine whether SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT will occur.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE. The grant of relief from a term of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-2 PENALTIES.
   A violation of the provisions of this chapter or the failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including a violation of the conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the
town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-3 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has, in S.C. Code §§ 5-7-10 et seq., 5-25-310 et seq.,
5-25-610 et seq. and 6-7-10 et seq., delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the town does ordain
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-4 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures of
flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Furthermore, the flood losses mentioned in subsection (A) above are
caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy in flood hazard
areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands which are
inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise unprotected from flood
damages.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-5 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES; ASSET TO COMMUNITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health,
minimize property damage, and encourage appropriate construction practices to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that
uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction. Uses of the
floodplain which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water or
erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities or erosion are
restricted or prohibited. These provisions attempt to control the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are
involved in the accommodation of flood waters, and control filling, grading,
dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion.
Additionally, this chapter prevents or regulates the construction of flood
barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood
hazards to other lands.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to protect human life and health,
to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas, and to ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area. The provisions of this chapter are intended to minimize damage
to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in the floodplain, and
prolonged business interruptions. Also, an important floodplain management
objective of this chapter is to minimize the expenditure of public money for
costly flood-control projects and rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding.
   (C)   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform
vital natural functions such as temporary storage of flood waters, moderation
of peak flood flows, maintenance of water quality, ground water recharge,
prevention of erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations,
recreational opportunities and aesthetic quality. These functions are best
served if floodplains are kept in their natural state. Wherever possible, the
natural characteristics of floodplains and their associated wetlands and water
bodies should be preserved and enhanced. Decisions to alter floodplains,
especially floodways and stream channels, should be the result of careful
planning processes which evaluate resource conditions and human needs.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-6 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the town as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency in its flood insurance study, dated April 19, 2021, with accompanying
maps and other supporting data, and any revision thereto, which are hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon annexation, this chapter shall apply to any special flood hazard
areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in its flood
insurance study for the unincorporated areas of the county, with accompanying
map and other data, and any revision thereto, which are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-7 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-8 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER REQUIRED.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-9 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the Town
Council, and deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted
under state law. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on part of the town, or by any officer or employee
thereof, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made under this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§§ 20-11—20-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
20-41   Local administrator designated
   
20-42   Development permit and certification requirements
   
20-43   Duties and responsibilities of local administrator
   
20-44   Procedures
   20-45—20-61   Reserved
§ 20-41 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   The Town Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-42 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a development permit shall be made to the local
administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any development
activities. The development permit may include, but not be limited to, plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing:
      (1)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
question;
      (2)   Existing or proposed structures; and
      (3)   The location of fill materials, storage areas and drainage
facilities.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required to accompany the
application for a development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour or a
statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain must be provided by the
development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within the
floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either §§ 
20-43(J) or
20-93 and
20-94 of this chapter. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same;
      (2)   The plot plan required by subsection (B)(1) above must show the
floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the floodway identified pursuant to either §§ 
20-43(J) or
20-93 and
20-94 of this chapter.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §§ 
20-6 or
20-43(J) of this chapter, the application for a development permit within the
flood hazard area shall show:
         (a)   The elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure will be flood-proofed in accordance with § 
20-63(B) of this chapter, the elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to
which the structure will be flood-proofed.
      (4)   If no base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §§ 
20-6 or
20-43(J) of this chapter, the application fora development permit must show
construction of the lowest floor at least three feet above the highest adjacent
grade;
      (5)   Where any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development, the application for a development permit shall include:
         (a)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
         (b)   An engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on
the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and
         (c)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation.
      (6)   When a structure is flood-proofed, the applicant shall provide
certification from a registered professional engineer or architect that the
non-residential, flood-proofed structure meets the flood- proofing criteria in
§ 
20-63(B) of this chapter;
      (7)   A floor elevation or flood-proofing certification is required after
the lowest floor is completed. As soon as possible after completion of the
lowest floor and before any further vertical construction commences, or flood-
proofing by whatever construction means, whichever is applicable, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the local administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, or flood-proofed elevation,
whichever is applicable, as built, in relation to mean sea level. Said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. Any
work done prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit
holder’s risk. The local administrator shall review the floor elevation survey
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed. The failure to submit the survey or the failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the
project;
      (8)   When a structure is located in Zones V, VE or V1-V30, certification
shall be provided from a registered professional engineer or architect,
separate from submitted plans, that the new construction or substantial
improvement meets the criteria in § 
20-96(E) of this chapter;
      (9)   Upon completion of the development a registered professional
engineer, land surveyor or architect, whichever professional is appropriate,
shall certify that subsections (B)(6), (7) and (8) above are built in
accordance with the submitted plans and previous pre-development
certifications;
      (10)   If the proposed project will impact the configuration of the
watercourse, floodway or base flood elevation for which a detailed flood
insurance study has been developed, the applicant shall apply for and must
receive approval fora conditional letter of map revision with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency prior to actual construction; and
      (11)   Within 60 days of completion of an alteration of a watercourse,
referenced in subsection (B)(10) above, the applicant shall submit an as-built
certification, by a registered professional engineer, to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-43 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties of the local administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permits to ensure that the requirements of this
chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise the permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, Land Resources and Conservation Districts Division, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   In addition to the notifications required in subsection (C) above,
written reports of maintenance records must be maintained to show that
maintenance has been provided within the altered or relocated portion of said
watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished. This
maintenance must consist of a comprehensive program of periodic inspections,
and routine channel clearing and dredging or other related functions. The
assurance shall consist of a description of maintenance activities, frequency
of performance and the local official responsible for maintenance performance.
Records shall be kept on file for FEMA inspection;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments within floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of Art. III of this chapter are met;
   (F)   Obtain the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the
lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in accordance
with §§ 
20-42(B)(7) or
20-96(B) of this chapter;
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which
the new or substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with § 
20-42(B)(7) of this chapter;
   (H)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with § 
20-63(2) of this chapter;
   (I)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions contained in §§ 
20-96(D), (F) and (H) of this chapter;
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (i.e., where there appears to
be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in § 
20-44 of this chapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data has not been provided
in accordance with § 
20-6 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize the best base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, including data developed pursuant to § 
20-94(C) of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter. Data from preliminary, draft and final flood insurance studies
constitutes best available data from a federal, state or other source. If an
appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, parts 67.5
and 67.6, the data does not have to be used;
   (L)   When the exact location of the boundaries of the areas special flood
hazards conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site
the property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. A copy of the letter of map amendment issued from FEMA will be
maintained by the local administrator in the permit file;
   (M)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with § 
20-44 of this chapter;
   (N)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop work orders, revoke permits
and take corrective actions in accordance with § 
20-44 of this chapter;
   (O)   Maintain all records pertaining to the administration of this chapter
and make these records available for public inspection; and
   (P)   Notify the land resources and conservation districts division, within
six months, of any annexations that include special flood hazard areas. The
community must incorporate applicable maps from surrounding jurisdictions into
this chapter within 90 days of annexation.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-44 PROCEDURES.
   The following administrative procedures apply to this chapter.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress; right of entry. As the work pursuant
to a permit progresses, the local administrator shall make as many inspections
of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according
to the provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit. In exercising
this power, the administrator has a right, upon the presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed,
reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation of this chapter, the
administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The stop work order
shall:
         (a)   Be in writing and directed to the person doing the work; and
         (b)   State the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons for
the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
      (2)   Violation of a stop work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The local administrator may revoke and require the return of the
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the
reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for:
         (a)   Any substantial departure from the approved application, plans
or specifications;
         (b)   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or
local laws; or
         (c)   False statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
permit.
      (2)   Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections; right of entry. The local administrator and each
member of his or her inspection department shall have a right, upon the
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected. When the local administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law on the property
he or she owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action; notice. If the
owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action,
the administrator shall give him or her written notice, by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service, that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the local administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the local administrator may issue such order
to:
         (a)   Alter, vacate or demolish the building; or
         (b)   Remove fill as appears appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed in subsection (F) above, the administrator shall find
that the building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she
shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the
violation within such period, not less than 60 days; provided that, where the
administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order of the Administrator to the Town Council by giving
notice of such appeal in writing to the Administrator and the Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Administrator shall be final. The Town Council shall hear an
appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke
the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the Town Council following
an appeal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§§ 20-45—20-61 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
20-62   Standards; generally
   
20-63   Same; specific
   
20-64   Temporary development
   
20-65   Accessory structures
   
20-66   Floodways
   
20-67   Fill
   20-68—20-92   Reserved
Division 2. Standards Relating to Certain Areas
   
20-93   Streams without established base flood elevations or floodways
   
20-94   Subdivisions
   
20-95   Areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
   
20-96   Coastal high hazard areas (V Zones)
   20-97—20-120   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 20-62 STANDARDS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Development may not occur in the floodplain where alternative
locations exist due to the inherent hazards and risks involved. Before a permit
is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new structures cannot be
located out of the floodplain and that encroachments onto the floodplain are
minimized.
   (B)   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be:
         (a)   Anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of
the structure;
         (b)   Constructed with flood-resistant materials and utility equipment
resistant to flood damage; and
         (c)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (2)   Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
equipment (including ductwork) and other service facilities shall be designed
and located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding. This requirement does not preclude
the installation of outdoor faucets for shower heads, sinks, hoses and the
like, as long as cutoff devices and backflow devices are installed to prevent
contamination to the service components and thereby minimizing any flood damage
to the building;
      (3)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (4)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into the flood waters;
      (5)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
      (6)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a
structure which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet
the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter. This
includes post-FIRM development and structures;
      (7)   Non-conforming buildings or uses may not be enlarged, replaced or
rebuilt unless such enlargement or reconstruction is accomplished in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, nothing in
this article shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or replacement of an
existing building or structure located totally or partially within the
floodway; provided that, the bulk of the building or structure below base flood
elevation in the floodway is not increased; and, provided that, such repair,
reconstruction or replacement meets all of other requirements of this chapter;
and
      (8)   A building must meet the specific standards for floodplain
construction outlined in § 
20-63 of this chapter, as well as any applicable Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1201 et seq. requirements. The ADA is not
justification for issuing a variance or otherwise waiving these requirements.
Also, the cost of improvements required to meet the ADA provisions shall be
included in the costs of the improvements for calculating substantial
improvement.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-63 SAME; SPECIFIC.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided, as set forth in §§ 
20-6 or
20-43(J) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or the substantial
improvement of any residential structure, including manufactured homes, shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than one feet above the base flood
elevation. No basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls
be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with subsection (E)
below.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or the substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure,
including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor elevated no lower
than one or more feet above the level of the base flood elevation. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided in
accordance with subsection (E) below. No basements are permitted. Structures
located in A Zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation; provided that,
all areas of the structure below the required elevation are water-tight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered, professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection (B) are
satisfied. Such certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth
in § 
20-42(B)(7) and (B)(9) of this chapter. A variance may be considered for wet
flood-proofing agricultural structures in accordance with the criteria outlined
in § 
20-124 of this chapter. Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of § 
20-124 of this chapter must meet the non-residential construction standards and
all other applicable provisions of this chapter. Structures which are flood-
proofed are required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual
exercise. The maintenance plan must be approved by the local administrator and
notification of the annual exercise shall be provided to same.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than one feet above the base flood
elevation and must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions of subsection (C)(1) above must be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than one feet
above the base flood elevation, and must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement in
accordance with § 19-425.39 of the South Carolina Manufactured Housing Board
Regulations, effective date 5-25-1990. Additionally, when the elevation
requirement would be met by an elevation of the chassis at least 36 inches or
less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength. When the
elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height an engineering
certification is required.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for the evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the local administrator and the local
emergency preparedness coordinator.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use
if it is on wheels or a jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions. Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either be on the site
for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway
use, or meet the requirements of §§ 
20-42 and
20-62 of this chapter and subsection (C) above.
   (E)   Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas that are usable solely for
the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement, and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to preclude
finished space and be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters.
      (1)   Minimum criteria. Designs for complying with the requirement of
this subsection (E) must either be certified by a professional engineer or
architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different walls having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions; and
         (d)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      (2)   Hazardous velocities. Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in
the design of any foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for
debris flow exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five feet
per second), foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should be
considered so that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      (3)   Access. Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary
to allow for:
         (a)   The parking of vehicles (garage door);
         (b)   The limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection
with the premises (standard exterior door); or
         (c)   Entry into the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (4)   Partitioning/finishing interior prohibited. The interior portion of
such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose a single storage area and must be void of utilities, except
for essential lighting as required, and cannot be temperature controlled. One
wet location switch or outlet connected to a ground fault interrupt breaker may
be installed below the required lowest floor elevation specified in subsections
(E)(1) through (E)(3) above.
      (5)   Flood-resistant material. All construction materials below the
required lowest floor elevation specified in subsections (E)(1) through (E)(3)
above shall be of flood-resistant materials.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-64 TEMPORARY DEVELOPMENT.
   Certain types of structures (e.g., fruit stands, construction site offices,
portable toilets and the like) may be situated temporarily on flood-prone
property without having to comply with the elevation or flood-proofing criteria
of § 
20-63(A) and (B), respectively, of this chapter; provided that, the following
criteria are met.
   (A)   All applicants must submit to the local administrator, prior to the
issuance of the development permit, a written plan for the removal of any
temporary structure or development in the event of a hurricane or flash flood
warning notification. The plan shall be reviewed and approved in writing, and
must include the following information:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of temporary structures or development;
      (3)   The timeframe prior to the event at which any structures will be
removed (i.e., a minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a trucking
company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed;
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the floodplain to which any temporary structure will be moved;
      (6)   A determination of permanent structures which would be adversely
affected by increased flooding upstream or downstream and a method for covering
this liability, such as a performance bond; and
      (7)   A plan to restore the area to its natural condition once the
temporary permit expires or the temporary use is terminated, whichever is
first.
   (B)   The structure is mobile, or can be made so, and is capable of being
removed from the site with a maximum of four hours warning.
   (C)   The structure will not remain on the property for more than 180 days.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-65 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   An accessory structure or garage, the cost of which is greater than $3,000,
must comply with the elevated structure requirements of § 
20-63(B) and (E) of this chapter. When accessory structures of $3,000 or less
are to be placed in the floodplain, the following criteria shall be met.
   (A)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation, including
work, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas.
   (B)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters.
   (D)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
installed in accordance with § 
20-62(D) of this chapter.
   (F)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below base flood elevation in conformance with § 
20-63(E) of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-66 FLOODWAYS.
   Areas designated as floodways are located within areas of special flood
hazard established in § 
20-6 of this chapter. The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of flood waters which carry debris and potential projectiles and has
erosion potential. The following provisions shall apply within such areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions and other developments shall be permitted unless it has
been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment
would not result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of
the base flood. Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
local administrator.
   (B)   If subsection (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this article.
   (C)   Stream crossings for any purpose (i.e., timber-harvesting operations),
if temporary, shall be permitted in accordance with § 
20-64 of this chapter. Otherwise, the development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this article.
   (D)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of § 
20-63(C) of this chapter are met.
   (E)   Permissible uses within floodways may include, but are not limited to,
general farming, pastures, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry,
wildlife sanctuaries, game farms and other similar agricultural, wildlife and
related uses. Additional permissible uses within floodways include lawns,
gardens, play areas, picnic grounds and hiking and horseback riding trails;
provided, they do not employ structures or fill. Substantial development of a
permissible use may require a no-rise certification. The uses listed in this
subsection (E) are permissible only if and to the extent that they do not cause
any increase in base flood elevations.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-67 FILL.
   Fill is discouraged because the storage capacity is removed from
floodplains. Elevating buildings by other methods must be considered. An
applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative to raising the
building to at least one foot above the base flood elevation, and that the
amount of fill used will not affect the flood storage capacity or adversely
affect adjacent properties. The following provisions shall apply to all fill
placed in the special flood hazard area.
   (A)   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance with
§ 
20-66(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits.
   (C)   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. Dredged material
may be used as fill only upon certification of suitability by a registered
professional geotechnical engineer. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps and sanitary
fills are not permitted in the floodplain.
   (D)   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-698,
and its suitability to support structures certified by a registered
professional engineer.
   (E)   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two horizontal to one vertical.
Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in erosion.
   (F)   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage problems
on neighboring properties.
   (G)   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high hazard
areas.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§§ 20-68—20-92 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. STANDARDS RELATING TO CERTAIN AREAS
§ 20-93 STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in § 20-6 of
this chapter are small streams where no base flood data has been provided or
where no floodways have been identified. The following provisions apply within
such areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within 100 feet of the
stream bank unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   If subsection (A) above is satisfied and base flood elevation data is
available from other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements
within such areas shall comply with all applicable flood hazard provisions of
this article and shall be elevated or flood-proofed in accordance with the
elevations established in § 
20-43(J) of this chapter. Data from preliminary, draft and final flood
insurance studies constitutes the best available data. If an appeal is pending
on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, parts 67.5 and 67.6, the data
does not have to be used. When base flood elevation data is not available from
a federal, state or other source, the lowest floor shall be elevated at least
three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-94 SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following provisions apply to subdivision proposals.
   (A)   (1)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   An access road at or above the base flood elevation shall be
provided to allow emergency access during flood conditions.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (C)   (1)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which is greater than the lesser of
five lots or five acres.
      (2)   Development of detailed floodway data will be required should the
applicant wish to appeal the setbacks requirements of § 20-93(A) of this
chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-95 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Areas designated as shallow flooding are located within the areas of special
flood hazard established in § 
20-6 of this chapter. The following provisions shall apply within such areas.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor elevated to the depth number specified
on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the highest adjacent grade. If
no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be elevated at least three
feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to the depth number specified on the
flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the highest adjacent grade; and
      (2)   If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be elevated
at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade; or be completely flood-
proofed together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities to or above
that level so that any space below that level is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-96 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (V ZONES).
   Areas of coastal high hazard are located within the areas of special flood
hazard established in §§ 
20-1 or
20-6 of this chapter. These areas have special flood hazards associated with
wave wash. The following provisions shall apply within such areas.
   (A)   All buildings or structures shall be located landward of the first
line of stable natural vegetation and comply with all applicable state
department of health and environmental control (DHEC), ocean and coastal
resource management (OCRM) setback requirements.
   (B)   All buildings or structures shall be elevated so that the bottom of
the lowest supporting horizontal member, excluding pilings or columns, is
located no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation level, with all
space below the lowest supporting member open so as not to impede the flow of
water. Open lattice work or decorative screening may be permitted for aesthetic
purposes only and must be designed to wash away in the event of abnormal wave
action and in accordance with subsection (H) below.
   (C)   All buildings or structures shall be securely anchored on pilings or
columns, extending vertically below a grade of sufficient depth and the zone of
potential scour, and securely anchored to the subsoil strata.
   (D)   All pilings and columns and the attached structures shall be anchored
to resist flotation, collapse, lateral movement and scour due to the effect of
wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components.
   (E)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions contained in subsections (D) above and (F) and (H) below.
   (F)   There shall be no fill used as structural support. Non-compacted fill
may be used around the perimeter of a building for landscaping/aesthetic
purposes provided the fill will wash out from storm surge, thereby rendering
the building free of obstruction prior to generating excessive loading forces,
ramping effects or wave deflection. Only beach-compatible sand may be used. The
local administrator shall approve design plans for landscaping/aesthetic fill
only after the applicant has provided an analysis by an engineer, architect or
soil scientist which demonstrates that the following factors have been fully
considered:
      (1)   The particle composition of fill material does not have a tendency
for excessive natural compaction;
      (2)   The volume and distribution of fill will not cause wave deflection
to adjacent properties; and
      (3)   The slope of the fill will not cause wave runup or ramping.
   (G)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes which would increase
potential flood damage.
   (H)   Prior to construction, plans for any structures that will have lattice
work or decorative screening must be submitted to the local administrator for
approval.
   (I)   Lattice work or decorative screening shall be allowed below the base
flood elevation; provided, they are not part of the structural support of the
building and are designed so as to breakaway, under abnormally high tides or
wave action, without damage to the structural integrity of the building on
which they are to be used and provided the following design specifications are
met:
      (1)   No solid walls shall be allowed;
      (2)   Breakaway wall material shall consist of wood or mesh screening
only;
      (3)   Design safe loading resistance of each breakaway wall shall be not
less than ten, nor more than 20, pounds per square foot; or
      (4)   If the design safe loading resistance of the breakaway is more than
20 pounds per square foot, a registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the design wall collapse would result from a water load less
than that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated
portion of the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject
to collapse, displacement or other structural damage due to the effects of wind
and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural
and non-structural). The water-loading values used shall be those associated
with the base flood. The wind-loading values used shall be those required by
the SBCCI Standard Building Code. Breakaway wall material shall be constructed
with flood-resistant materials.
   (J)   If aesthetic lattice work or screening is utilized, such enclosed
space shall not be designed to be used for human habitation, but shall be
designed to be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access or
limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises.
      (1)   Only flood-resistant materials shall be used below the required
flood elevation specified in subsection (B) above.
      (2)   One wet location switch or outlet connected to a ground fault
interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in subsection (C) above.
      (3)   The total area of an enclosed space shall not exceed 299 square
feet per building.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
shall not enclose the space below the lowest floor, except with lattice work or
decorative screening, as provided for in subsections (H) and (I) above.
   (L)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of § 
20-63(C) of this chapter are met.
   (M)   Recreational vehicles shall be permitted in coastal high hazard areas;
provided that, they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of § 
20-63(D) of this chapter and the temporary structure provisions of § 
20-64 of this chapter.
   (N)   Temporary structures are permitted in accordance with § 
20-64 of this chapter.
   (O)   Accessory structures below the required lowest floor elevation
specified in subsection (B) above are prohibited.
   (P)   Parking areas should be located on a stable grade under or landward of
a structure. Any parking surface shall consist of gravel or ROC aggregate.
   (Q)   Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
equipment (including ductwork) and other service facilities shall be designed
and located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding. This requirement does not preclude
the installation of outdoor faucets for shower heads, sinks, hoses and the
like, as long as cutoff devices and backflow devices are installed to prevent
contamination to the service components and thereby minimize any flood damage
to the building.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§§ 20-97—20-120 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: VARIANCE PROCEDURES
Section
   
20-121   Appeal; Board established
   
20-122   Same; right
   
20-123   Historic structures
   
20-124   Agricultural structures
   
20-125   Criteria
   
20-126   Findings
   
20-127   Floodways
   
20-128   Conditions
   20-129—20-154   Reserved
§ 20-121 APPEAL; BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The County Construction Board of Appeals as established by the county shall
hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-122 SAME; RIGHT.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any taxpayer may
appeal such decision to the court.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-123 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-124 AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Variances may be issued to wet flood-proof an agricultural structure
in accordance with Technical Bulletin 7-93, Wet Flood-Proofing Requirements for
Structures Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas in accordance with the
National Flood Insurance Program, document number FIA-TB-7, dated December
1993, and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   In order to minimize flood damages during the base flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the structure must meet all of the
conditions and considerations of § 
20-128 of this chapter and the following standards:
      (1)   Use of the structure must be limited to agricultural purposes as
listed in this subsection (B):
         (a)   Pole frame buildings with open or closed sides used exclusively
for the storage of farm machinery and equipment;
         (b)   Steel grain bins and steel frame corn cribs;
         (c)   General purpose barns for the temporary feeding of livestock
which are open on at least one side;
         (d)   For livestock confinement buildings, poultry houses, dairy
operations and similar livestock operations, variances may not be issued for
structures which were substantially damaged. New construction or substantial
improvement of such structures must meet the elevation requirements of § 20-63
(B) of this chapter; and
         (e)   Detached garages and storage sheds solely used for parking and
limited storage in connection with agricultural uses only, which are no greater
than 400 square feet in area.
      (2)   The agricultural structure must be built or rebuilt, in the case of
an existing building which is substantially damaged, with flood-resistant
materials for the exterior and interior building components and elements below
the base flood elevation;
      (3)   The agricultural structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. All of the structure’s components must
be capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, hydrodynamic and debris impact forces. Where flood velocities exceed
five feet per second, fast-flowing flood waters can exert considerable pressure
on the building’s enclosure walls or foundation walls;
      (4)   The agricultural structure must meet the venting requirement of § 
20-63(E)(1) of this chapter;
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation so that they are contained within a
water-tight, flood-proofed enclosure which is capable of resisting damage
during flood conditions. The structure must comply with § 
20-62(D) of this chapter;
      (6)   The agricultural structure must comply with the floodway
encroachment provisions of § 
20-66 of this chapter; and
      (7)   Major equipment, machinery or other contents must be protected.
Such protection may include protective water-tight flood-proofed areas within
the building, the use of equipment hoists for readily elevating contents,
permanently elevating contents on pedestals or shelves above the base flood
elevation, or determining that property owners can safely remove contents
without risk to lives and that the contents will be located to a specified site
out of the floodplain in accordance with the temporary development provisions
of § 
20-64 of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-125 CRITERIA.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage and
the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development, and the relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   (I)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges; and
   (J)   Agricultural structures must be located in wide, expansive floodplain
areas, where no other alternative location for the agricultural structure
exists. The applicant must demonstrate that the entire farm acreage, consisting
of a contiguous parcel of land on which the structure is to be located, must be
in the special flood hazard area and no other alternative locations for the
structure are available.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-126 FINDINGS.
   The findings listed in § 
20-125 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Appeal Board, in writing, and
included in the application for a variance. Additionally, comments from the
state’s Department of Natural Resources, Land Resources and Conservation
Districts Division, State Coordinator’s Office for the National Flood Insurance
Program, must be taken into account and included in the permit file.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-127 FLOODWAYS.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-128 CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed in this article and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter. The
following conditions shall apply to all variances.
   (A)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the structure
in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or ordinances.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, a determination that the failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create a nuisance, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   (D)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
   (E)   The local administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
   (F)   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or other
development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Violations must be corrected in accordance with § 
20-44(E) of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§§ 20-129—20-154 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: LEGAL STATUS
Section
   
20-155   Effect upon; rights and liabilities under existing ordinance
   
20-156   Same; existing building permits
§ 20-155 EFFECT UPON; RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER EXISTING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by reenactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of the Town of Kershaw, South
Carolina, enacted on 2-3-2003, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather
to re-enact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing
provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are
reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect
any action, suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the
Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of The Town of Kershaw, South Carolina,
enacted on 2-3-2003, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
§ 20-156 SAME; EXISTING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building Inspector or
his or her authorized agent before the time of passage of the ordinance from
which this chapter is derived; provided, however, that, when construction is
not begun under such outstanding permit within a period of 60 days subsequent
to passage of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, the
construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 2-3-2003)
CHAPTER 21: RESERVED
CHAPTER 22: HEALTH AND SANITATION
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   NUISANCES
         
III.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE REMOVAL
         
IV.   WEEDS
         
V.   TOILET FACILITIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
22-1   Board of Health
   22-2—22-20   Reserved
§ 22-1 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   Unless and until a Board of Health is appointed by the Town Council, health
matters generally shall be referred to the county’s Board of Health.
§§ 22-2—22-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: NUISANCES
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
22-21   Declared
   
22-22   Accumulation of junk and trash prohibited
   
22-23   Refusing or neglecting to abate
   22-24—22-49   Reserved
Division 2. Abatement
   
22-50   Authority
   
22-51   Notice to remedy condition; compliance required
   
22-52   Same; service; publication
   
22-53   Correction or removal of condition; lien; appeal
   22-54—22-79   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Authority to provide by ordinance that owners keep property free of
conditions which constitute a public nuisance, see S.C. Code § 5-7-80
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 22-21 DECLARED.
   (A)   Any act of any person whereby the health or life of any individual may
be endangered, injured or impaired, or which causes any disease is hereby
declared a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or agent of any lot or
premises, whether occupied or vacant, within the corporate limits to:
      (1)   Permit such property to become unsanitary by allowing any offensive
matter or thing upon such lot or premises which may be detrimental to health;
      (2)   Permit any trash, rubbish, waste, storage or ice boxes,
refrigerators, stoves, refuse, manure, straw, hay or thing to accumulate and
remain upon such premises; or
      (3)   Throw, deposit or cause to be thrown or deposited upon any vacant
lot or premises such thing which may endanger, injure or damage another
person’s health or property.
   (C)   The nuisances mentioned in this section shall not be construed as all-
inclusive.
§ 22-22 ACCUMULATION OF JUNK AND TRASH PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to accumulate or allow to accumulate on any premises or
in the rear of any store, factory or residence, old fixtures, junk, trash or
any other material which tends to keep such premises wet, exclude the sun and
catch and favor the accumulation of filth.
§ 22-23 REFUSING OR NEGLECTING TO ABATE.
   Any person refusing or neglecting to abate a nuisance, after having been
directed to do so, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§§ 22-24—22-49 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. ABATEMENT
§ 22-50 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council may declare as nuisances such things, the existence of
which may be deemed unhealthy or harmful to the citizens, and such nuisances
shall be abated pursuant to directions from the Council.
§ 22-51 NOTICE TO REMEDY CONDITION; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Whenever any condition described in this article is found to exist on any
premises, the owner of such premises shall be notified by the Clerk in writing,
to correct the condition within ten days after such notice. It shall be
unlawful for any person to fail to comply with such notice.
§ 22-52 SAME; SERVICE; PUBLICATION.
   The notice shall be served on the owner to whom it is directed or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to such owner at his or her
last known post office address. In the event personal service cannot be made
and the owner’s address is unknown, such notice shall be given by publication
at least two times within 15 consecutive days in a local newspaper of general
circulation within the town.
§ 22-53 CORRECTION OR REMOVAL OF CONDITION; LIEN; APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event the owner of any lot or premises, upon which a condition
described in this article exists, fails to remedy such condition after a notice
to do so is given, the town may do such work or make such improvements as are
necessary to correct, remedy or remove such condition, or cause the same to be
done, pay therefor and charge the expenses incurred thereby to the owner of
such lot. The doing of such work shall not relieve such person from prosecution
for failing to comply with such notice. Such expenses shall be assessed against
the lot or real estate upon which the work was done or the improvements made.
   (B)   The owner shall have the right of appeal to the Council.
§§ 22-54—22-79 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: GARBAGE AND REFUSE REMOVAL
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
22-80   Residential collection containers
   
22-81   Service
   
22-82   Damaging, destroying or removing containers prohibited
   
22-83   Tampering with containers or their contents prohibited
   
22-84   Owner/occupant responsibility; cleaning containers
   
22-85   Same; keeping storage area clean
   
22-86   Collectors to exercise reasonable care
   
22-87   Placing garbage for collection
   
22-88   Commercial and non-residential collection
   
22-89   Owner responsible for removal and disposal of dead animal
   
22-90   Special waste collection surcharge
   
22-91   Garbage collection services outside of corporate limits
   
22-92   Requirement for waste receptacle
   22-93—22-110   Reserved
Division 2. Refuse Special User Tax
   
22-111   Established
   
22-112   Authority of Council to negotiate
   
22-113   Billing; failure or refusal to pay
   22-114—22-139   Reserved
Division 3. Requirements for Collection of Certain Materials
   
22-140   Tree limbs, underbrush, leaves and the like
   
22-141   Building materials and the like
   
22-142   Solid waste disposal
   22-143—22-167   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 22-80 RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Roll-out containers shall be used for residential collection, unless
otherwise permitted by the council. Replacements shall be as determined by the
Council.
   (B)   All occupied residential dwellings within the town limits are required
to have a rollout container provided and serviced by the town or its
representative, monthly fees to be paid for by the resident consistent with the
current rate schedule in effect during the service period.
   (C)   Rollouts must be removed from street within 48 hours after pick-up.
(Ord. 148, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 22-81 SERVICE.
   Containers shall be serviced a minimum of once per week.
§ 22-82 DAMAGING, DESTROYING OR REMOVING CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy or move from its
proper location any garbage container used in the collection of garbage and
refuse.
§ 22-83 TAMPERING WITH CONTAINERS OR THEIR CONTENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere or otherwise deter the normal refuse collection
process by tampering with refuse containers or their contents.
§ 22-84 OWNER/OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY; CLEANING CONTAINERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the occupant/user to keep his, her or
their individual container reasonably clean.
§ 22-85 SAME; KEEPING STORAGE AREA CLEAN.
   It shall be the responsibility of the occupant/user to keep the pickup point
free of litter. Containers shall not be filled to overflow capacity in order to
prevent litter distribution when emptying the container.
§ 22-86 COLLECTORS TO EXERCISE REASONABLE CARE.
   Collectors shall exercise reasonable care in the handling of containers and
shall not willfully break, deface or injure same.
§ 22-87 PLACING GARBAGE FOR COLLECTION.
   Each occupant/user shall place garbage for collection at the proper time in
the proper manner near the sidewalk or highway in front of his or her
residence, and shall remove the container from the sidewalk or highway after
collection.
§ 22-88 COMMERCIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION.
   All occupied commercial and other non-residential establishments within the
town limits are required to have a rollout container provided and serviced by
the town or its representative. Monthly fees to be paid for by the commercial
and other non-residential establishments under the current rate schedule in
effect during the service period. Commercial and other non-residential
establishments shall utilize approved bulk containers, as necessary, for the
amount of solid waste generated with monthly fees to be paid for under the
current rate schedule in effect during the service period.
(Ord. 2023-011, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 22-89 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMAL.
   Owners of dead animals shall be responsible for their removal and disposal.
§ 22-90 SPECIAL WASTE COLLECTION SURCHARGE.
   Any household, commercial establishment or industry requiring the handling
of special waste shall be subject to a monthly surcharge billing, in an amount
as established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the
schedule of fees and charges, available for public examination in the Town
Clerk’s office.
§ 22-91 GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICES OUTSIDE OF CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Services offered, if feasible. Garbage collection service may be
provided, if feasible, to certain areas outside of the corporate limits.
Customers desiring such service must make application for said service and pay
any and all deposits, monthly fees and service fees as established by the
Council. The collection of yard waste is not offered outside of the corporate
limits.
   (B)   Existing customers. As the town currently provides garbage collection
services outside of the corporate limits, those customers shall not be required
to pay a deposit to continue receiving services. However, should customer cease
receiving service, a deposit will be required to resume said service.
   (C)   Prohibited outside of corporate limits without establishment as
customer or without Council approval. The collection of or hauling away of any
garbage or debris of any kind for any individual or business located outside
the corporate limits is not allowed without special consideration of Council
unless said individual or business has been established as a garbage collection
customer as prescribed in subsection (A).
   (D)   Dismissal for violation. Any employee who shall knowingly violate the
provisions of this section shall be subject to dismissal.
(Ord. 2023-010, passed 8-21-2023)
§ 22-92 REQUIREMENT FOR WASTE RECEPTACLE.
   Any place of business which sells prepared or prepackaged food for takeout
or consumption off the premises shall provide a receptacle for waste within ten
feet of the public entrance to the business during the business’s normal hours
of operation.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed 3-18-2019)
§§ 22-93—22-110 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. REFUSE SPECIAL USER TAX
§ 22-111 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Refuse special user taxes are hereby established.
   (B)   Any person not utilizing water and sewer services furnished by the
town, but who utilize its garbage pickup service, shall be responsible for the
payment of the refuse special user tax in like manner as if they were receiving
water and sewer services. The refuse special user tax shall be in an amount as
established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the schedule
of fees and charges, available for public examination in the Town Clerk’s
office.
   (C)   All customers that can be served by the town’s garbage collection
service shall be charged the minimum applicable rate should they decline the
service.
(Ord. 2023-011, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 22-112 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO NEGOTIATE.
   The Town Council may negotiate a refuse special user tax to be charged to
any industry or other business located within the corporate limits.
§ 22-113 BILLING; FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO PAY.
   All refuse special user taxes shall be included on the water account bills
and collected in the same manner as the water accounts. Any person who fails or
refuses to pay the fee provided in this division shall have all services
discontinued, and any business establishment which shall fail or refuse to pay
the fee provided in this division shall be subject to the revocation of the
license to conduct business in the town.
§§ 22-114—22-139 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR COLLECTION OF CERTAIN MATERIALS
§ 22-140 TREE LIMBS, UNDERBRUSH, LEAVES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All tree limbs, branches, underbrush and other yard waste must be
placed between curb and sidewalk (at curb in areas with no sidewalk). Tree
limbs must be cut into lengths no longer than five feet and no bigger than six
inches around. No more than ten cubic yards of limb and brush debris allowed to
be placed for pick-up per week.
   (B)   Special leaf collection season runs from mid-November through mid-
March. Leaves placed on the curb for pickup must be separated from all other
materials and placed at least ten feet from any obstruction. During this time
leaves do not have to be bagged or in a container; however, doing so is
encouraged for ease in collection and to limit scattering by wind. In the off-
season (mid-March to mid-November) leaves must be bagged and placed by the curb
for pick-up.
   (C)   Yard debris collection is provided only to in-town residential
properties with an active utility account. If a commercial business does work
at a residence, they are responsible for hauling away any yard waste generated
except for leaves or grass clippings.
   (D)   All commercial businesses hired to cut trees will be responsible for
the removal of such material. Property owners who cut down their own trees
themselves must cut up the trees into sections no more than five feet in length
and six inches in diameter and put at the curb and they will be picked up.
(Ord. 2024-013, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 22-141 BUILDING MATERIALS AND THE LIKE.
   Every person, including a property owner, after completing or during the
construction or alteration of a building, shall remove all trash incident to
such construction or alteration.
§ 22-142 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any form of solid waste on
any public or private property.
§§ 22-143—22-167 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: WEEDS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
22-168   Upkeep required
   
22-169   Prohibited on improved property
   
22-170   Accumulation of grass, weeds and debris prohibited
   22-171—22-193   Reserved
Division 2. Enforcement
   
22-194   Authority of Police Chief or other town official to issue summons;
order to clear or abate condition
   
22-195   Notice to remove
   
22-196   Abatement procedure
   22-197—22-215   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide by ordinance that owners keep property free of
conditions which constitute a public nuisance, see S.C. Code § 5-7-80
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 22-168 UPKEEP REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit to be maintained
any premises, including vacant lots or land, upon which grass, weeds,
undergrowth, trash, garbage, offal, stagnant water, building materials, glass,
wood or other matter deleterious to good health and public sanitation which is
permitted or caused to accumulate in any manner which is or may become a
nuisance causing injury to the health or welfare of the residents or the public
in the vicinity or causing injury to neighboring property.
§ 22-169 PROHIBITED ON IMPROVED PROPERTY.
   No person shall allow or permit weeds and grass to grow upon his or her
improved premises within the corporate limits uncut so as to render the
premises unsightly or unhealthy from the growth and accumulation of such grass,
weeds and vegetable matter thereon.
§ 22-170 ACCUMULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS AND DEBRIS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupier of any premises within the
corporate limits of the town or any other person to permit the accumulation
thereon of grass, weeds or debris including, but not limited to, undergrowth,
trash, garbage, stagnant water, building materials, glass, wood or any other
material in any manner which is deleterious to the public health and sanitation
or which is or may become a fire hazard or a public nuisance or which renders
the premises unsightly.
§§ 22-171—22-193 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. ENFORCEMENT
§ 22-194 AUTHORITY OF POLICE CHIEF OR OTHER TOWN OFFICIAL TO ISSUE SUMMONS;
ORDER TO CLEAR OR ABATE CONDITION.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief or other town official authorized
by § 
26-1(E) of this code of ordinances to summon the owner of such premises, and
if, after fully hearing the matter and any statement the owner may make and any
testimony he or she may offer in his or her behalf concerning such matter, the
Police Chief or other authorized town official should find such premises or lot
in a condition tending to injure the public health, he or she shall issue a
written order or notice directed to the owner, directing and requiring him or
her within a reasonable and specified time to clear such premises or lot in
order to abate such nuisance.
§ 22-195 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   The Town Clerk, upon notification of the failure of any person to comply
with the requirements of § 
22-170 of this chapter, shall immediately notify such person in writing of the
conditions constituting his or her non-compliance. The notice shall instruct
such person to remove the conditions constituting his or her non-compliance
with 30 days of the date of the notice. The notice shall be accompanied by a
copy of §§ 
22-170,
22-195 and
22-196 of this chapter.
§ 22-196 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Authority; property owner to pay costs. Should any property owner fail
to keep such property cleared, after due notice thereof to do so the authorized
town official may cause said property to be kept cleared and in a sanitary
condition for health purposes or cleared for fire prevention, at a reasonable
cost therefor, and the cost shall become a lien upon the real estate. The
expense shall be added to the annual tax levied on the property and shall be
collected in the same manner as the annual property tax.
   (B)   Time constraints; property lien. Upon the failure of the person so
notified pursuant to § 
22-195 of this chapter to remove the conditions constituting non-compliance
within 30 days of the date of the notice, the town may cause the removal of
such conditions. The costs and expenses of such removal shall be charged to the
owner of the premises. If the bill remains unpaid more than 60 days after its
date, the bill shall become a lien against the premises and shall be added to
the annual real property tax on the premises and collected by the town in the
same manner as the annual real property tax.
§§ 22-197—22-215 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: TOILET FACILITIES
Section
   
22-216   Pit privy
   
22-217   Building contracts to provide for waste disposal
§ 22-216 PIT PRIVY.
   (A)   Defined. As used in the article, the term PIT PRIVY means a building
which is not connected to a sewer and used for affording privacy while in the
act of urination or defecation.
   (B)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any property owner to construct,
erect, install, maintain or permit to remain any pit privy on any property
within the corporate limits.
Statutory reference:
   Privy defined, see S.C. Code § 44-55-210
§ 22-217 BUILDING CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE FOR WASTE DISPOSAL.
   All building contracts for the erection of structures anticipated for human
occupancy shall provide for adequate and sanitary waste disposal. The contract
shall provide for such facilities, and plans shall state the proposed method of
disposal.
CHAPTER 23: GOLF COURSE
Section
   
23-1   Function as Recreational Department
   
23-2   Self-supporting entity
   
23-3   Rates and fee structure established
§ 23-1 FUNCTION AS RECREATIONAL DEPARTMENT.
   The golf course will be under the jurisdiction of the town and shall be
considered as a division of the Recreational Department and funded under the
General Fund revenues.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 23-2 SELF-SUPPORTING ENTITY.
   The Council will establish membership fees and other rates (i.e., cart fees)
that will be of benefit to the citizens of the town at lower cost to ensure
that citizens are able to enjoy all the recreational opportunities associated
with the golf course. Non-citizen rates will be established to make certain
that the golf course remains a self-supporting entity of the town.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 23-3 RATES AND FEE STRUCTURE ESTABLISHED.
   The golf course membership rates and other fees structure will be
recommended by the Golf Course Committee to the Town Council at the April Town
Council meeting. Council will adjust the recommended rates and fees and approve
the new structure on or before the June Town Council meeting.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-20-2016)
CHAPTER 24: LAW ENFORCEMENT
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
III.   RULES OF CONDUCT
         
IV.   RULES OF PROCEDURE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
24-1   Definitions
   
24-2   Agreement authorized
   24-3—24-22   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   The Town of Kershaw has made an arrangement for law enforcement services
with the Lancaster County Sheriff’s Department.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact ordinances exercising powers regarding law enforcement,
see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 24-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CHIEF OF POLICE or CHIEF. The Lancaster County Sheriff.
   POLICE OFFICER or OFFICER. The law enforcement officers of the County
Sheriff’s Department.
§ 24-2 AGREEMENT AUTHORIZED.
   The town has entered into an agreement with the county to provide general
law enforcement services through the County Sheriff’s Department within the
town limits.
(Ord. 85, passed 11-13-2000)
§§ 24-3—24-22 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
24-23   Composition; appointments
   
24-24   Bond required
   
24-25   Oath
   
24-26   Compensation
   
24-27   Bonds and fines to be collected by Town Clerk of Court
   
24-28   Disposition of unclaimed personal property
   
24-29   Sending personnel to other political subdivisions in emergency
   24-30—24-46   Reserved
Division 2. Authority, Powers and Duties of Personnel
   
24-47   Authority of Chief and officers
   
24-48   Powers of police officers
   
24-49   Summons to appear
   
24-50   Duty to observe conditions, obstructions, nuisances and the like
   
24-51   Special police protection
   
24-52   Additional duties directed or required by Council
   
24-53   Returning property following termination
   24-54—24-85   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 24-23 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENTS.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, to be appointed by
the Mayor and Council and such officers and employees as may be authorized by
the Town Administrator.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal police officers, see S.C. Code § 5-7-110
§ 24-24 BOND REQUIRED.
   The Chief of Police and other members of the Department shall give bond in
favor of the town, in the amounts and under the conditions as the Mayor and
Council may, from time to time, determine the premiums to be paid by the town.
§ 24-25 OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, each police officer
shall take and subscribe to an oath that he or she will support the
Constitution and laws of the state, the Constitution of the United States and
this code.
§ 24-26 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation shall be subject to appropriations in the annual budget.
§ 24-27 BONDS AND FINES TO BE COLLECTED BY TOWN CLERK OF COURT.
   Police officers shall not collect bonds or fines. Bonds and fines shall be
collected only by the town’s Clerk of Court during normal business hours and
shall be paid only by cash, certified check or money order.
§ 24-28 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all bicycles, cameras,
electronic equipment, office machines, watches, clocks, jewelry and other items
of personal property which may be recovered by the Police Department in
connection with the performance of its duties, or turned in to the Department,
and shall be referred to in this section as personal property.
   (B)   Annual public sale. All personal property which has been lost, stolen
or abandoned and which is in the possession of the Department shall be disposed
of by annual public sale to the highest bidder by the Police Chief, or an
officer appointed by him or her, in accordance with the terms set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Notice; publication.
      (1)   Such personal property which remains unclaimed by the owner, or if
the owner is unknown, shall be sold at public sale after duly posting of a
notice of same at the Town Hall at least 15 days prior to such sale.
      (2)   The notice shall contain the time, place and terms of the sale and
a description of the property to be sold.
   (D)   Proceeds placed in General Fund. The proceeds from the sale of
unclaimed personal property shall be paid into the General Fund of the town the
day of the sale.
Statutory reference:
   Sale of recovered property, see S.C. Code §§ 27-21-20 et seq.
§ 24-29 SENDING PERSONNEL TO OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS IN EMERGENCY.
   In case of an emergency, the Chief of Police may, upon request of any other
political subdivision of the state, send any law enforcement officers of the
town to the requesting political subdivision.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to send law enforcement officers to other political subdivisions
upon request, see S.C. Code § 5-7-120
§§ 24-30—24-46 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. AUTHORITY, POWERS AND DUTIES OF PERSONNEL
§ 24-47 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall supervise the Police Department and shall be
responsible for the security of business establishments and for any other
matters of public safety and law enforcement.
   (B)   In order to secure the public’s safety, police officers are hereby
authorized and empowered to make arrests of all offenders against municipal
ordinances and statutes of the state committed within the corporate limits.
§ 24-48 POWERS OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Each officer of the Department shall be sworn and invested with all
powers within the corporate limits of the town and its police jurisdiction as
authorized by law.
   (B)   He or she shall have the power to carry out all duties assigned to him
or her by statutes, ordinances, resolutions, directives, rules or regulations.
§ 24-49 SUMMONS TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Authority. Any person violating an ordinance of the town or any state
law may be apprehended by a police officer and a summons issued therefor.
   (B)   Trial date set. A trial date shall be designated in the summons by the
apprehending officer, and a copy of the summons shall be held for further
action by the appropriate judicial officer.
   (C)   Jurisdiction created. The summons duly served, as provided in this
section, shall give the judicial officer jurisdiction to dispose of the matter.
   (D)   Bail. Upon receipt of the bail money, the apprehended person may be
released, subject to his or her appearance before the appropriate judicial
officer as required by the summons.
§ 24-50 DUTY TO OBSERVE CONDITIONS, OBSTRUCTIONS, NUISANCES AND THE LIKE.
   All members of the Department shall observe the condition of the streets,
sidewalks and alleys of the town, and of any obstruction, nuisance or
impediments there and shall take the necessary measures to remove or abate them
and to report such conditions to the appropriate town official.
§ 24-51 SPECIAL POLICE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Application required. Any individual needing special police
protection, upon an application to the Chief of Police or Town Administrator,
and showing the necessity therefor, may have certified police officers
appointed as special police officers and detailed for special police duty.
   (B)   Qualifications; powers.
      (1)   Such officers shall be certified police officers subject to the
order of the business appointing them and the Chief of Police.
      (2)   They shall obey all police regulations of the town and shall,
during such appointment, have all the powers of regular police officers.
   (C)   Compensation; not considered town employee while serving. They shall
receive no salary or pay whatsoever from the town and shall not be considered a
town employee while so serving.
   (D)   May wear uniform and use weapons with Chief’s approval. Such officers
may wear their uniforms and use their weapons and like equipment while
performing private jobs in their off-duty hours, with permission from the Chief
of Police.
   (E)   Removal of officers. Such special officers may be removed at any time
by the business appointing them or by the Chief of Police.
Statutory reference:
   Authority for law enforcement officers to use official uniforms on private
jobs, see S.C. Code § 23-24-10
§ 24-52 ADDITIONAL DUTIES DIRECTED OR REQUIRED BY COUNCIL.
   In addition to the duties prescribed in this article, the Police Department
shall perform such other duties as may be directed and required by the Town
Council.
§ 24-53 RETURNING PROPERTY FOLLOWING TERMINATION.
   Upon the termination of services, for whatever reason, all members of the
Department shall return any equipment and all official material or things
belonging to the Department. Failure to do so shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable by the Municipal Court.
§§ 24-54—24-85 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: RULES OF CONDUCT
Section
   
24-86   Suspension or discharge of officer
   
24-87   Town Administrator to discipline Chief
   24-88—24-114   Reserved
§ 24-86 SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE OF OFFICER.
   (A)   Authority; report to Town Administrator required. The Chief of Police
may suspend or discharge any police officer for neglect of duty, disobedience
of orders or violation of any law or ordinance. Within 24 hours, he or she
shall report such suspension or discharge and the reasons therefor to the Town
Administrator, with appeal to the Town Council.
   (B)   Request for hearing. The Town Council, upon written request of the
officer disciplined, shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the town’s
Personnel Policy, Part VI, Grievance Procedure, at which the officer shall have
the right to be heard. The Town Council may affirm or revoke such suspension or
discharge.
§ 24-87 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR TO DISCIPLINE CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall be disciplined by the Town Administrator, subject
to appeal to the Council.
§§ 24-88—24-114 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: RULES OF PROCEDURE
Section
   
24-115   Supervision by Chief
   
24-116   Reports by officers; record book
   
24-117   Duty of officers; arrest and report violations
   
24-118   Same; inventory and turn over moneys, arms and the like of prisoner
§ 24-115 SUPERVISION BY CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall assign the members of his or her Department
in such a manner as to obtain the best results and most efficient service.
   (B)   He or she shall initiate such programs as will provide him or her with
the information and reports he or she deems necessary and shall maintain
regular contact with his or her personnel.
§ 24-116 REPORTS BY OFFICERS; RECORD BOOK.
   (A)   Each member of the Police Department shall report to his or her
superior officer before entering upon his or her daily duties for assignments
and information. He or she shall make such other regular reports as are
required by these rules or by his or her superior officer.
   (B)   (1)   A permanent record book shall be maintained by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee.
      (2)   It shall show the name, address, charges, bonds or pledges, trial
and disposition of each person arrested.
§ 24-117 DUTY OF OFFICERS; ARREST AND REPORT VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of each police officer to arrest and report any person
for violating the laws or ordinances of the town. Failure or neglect to do so
shall make him or her liable to disciplinary action.
§ 24-118 SAME; INVENTORY AND TURN OVER MONEYS, ARMS AND THE LIKE OF PRISONER.
   It shall be the duty of each police officer, when necessary, to remove from
such prisoner all monies, arms, medicines, papers and the like, which shall be
inventoried and turned over to the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
CHAPTER 25: RESERVED
CHAPTER 26: OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
III.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY, DECENCY AND
PUBLIC WELFARE
         
IV.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
         
V.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
VI.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
         
VII.   MINORS
         
VIII.   PENALTIES
         
IX.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
26-1   Summons to appear
   
26-2   State criminal laws adopted
   26-3—26-22   Reserved
§ 26-1 SUMMONS TO APPEAR.
   (A)   Authority. In all actions for the violation of provisions of the
town’s ordinances, not amounting to a breach of the peace, the initial process
may be a summons issued by town officials or employees, who are authorized by
subsection (e) below to issue summons commanding the person named therein as
the defendant to appear before the municipal court at a time to be set in the
summons.
   (B)   Contents. The summons shall cite only one violation per summons and
must contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person or entity charged;
      (2)   The name and title of the issuing officer;
      (3)   The time, date and location of the hearing;
      (4)   A description of the ordinance violated;
      (5)   The procedure to post bond; and
      (6)   Any other notice or warning otherwise required by law.
   (C)   “Breach of peace” defined. The term BREACH OF PEACE is considered a
generic term and includes all violations of public peace or order and acts
tending to be a disturbance thereof.
   (D)   Failure to appear. Any person who fails to appear before the court as
required by the summons, without first having posted such bond as may be
required or without having been granted a continuance by the court, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Persons authorized to issue. The Mayor and Council shall designate
individuals who shall be authorized to issue municipal summons, which shall be
spread upon the minutes of the Council.
   (F)   Motor vehicle exception. This section shall not apply to any ordinance
which regulates the use of motor vehicles on the public roads.
   (G)   Not exclusive remedy. This section shall not be construed as a
limitation upon the power of any person, officer or employee to seek or pursue
any other lawful process or legal remedy.
   (H)   Bond amounts set by Judge. The bond amount for violations shall be
prescribed by the Municipal Judge. Bonds shall be posted in the manner
prescribed by the Municipal Judge. Town code enforcement officers, when
appointed, and town law enforcement officers shall be prohibited from accepting
bonds.
   (I)   Not to be used for custodial arrests. Any summons issued under the
provisions of this article shall not be used to perform a custodial arrest.
§ 26-2 STATE CRIMINAL LAWS ADOPTED.
   All acts and conduct that constitute any violation of the common law and
statutory law, as set forth in the 1976 South Carolina Code of Laws, are hereby
declared unlawful, when such act, conduct or violation occurs, insofar as such
provisions and violations can have application and the punishment of which is
within the jurisdiction of the Mayor and Council.
§§ 26-3—26-22 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
26-23   Prohibited sales hours; exception
   
26-24   Drinking on premises of licensed retailer, wholesaler or manufacturer
prohibited
   
26-25   Posting of permit and health certificate required
   
26-26   Unlawful purchases
   
26-27   Consumption at certain places
   26-28—26-57   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of alcoholic beverages, see S.C. Code §§ 61-6-1600 et seq.
   Regulation of beer, ale, porter and wine, see S.C. Code §§ 61-4-10 et seq.
§ 26-23 PROHIBITED SALES HOURS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   All businesses which possess an on-premises consumption permit for
alcoholic beverages shall be closed for business between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and shall remain closed between the
hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday and 5:00 a.m. Monday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to sell or offer for
sale any beer or wine between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., Monday
through Saturday, and between the hours of 12:00 midnight Saturday and sunrise
Monday morning, except those establishments licensed by the state to sell
alcoholic beverages in containers of two ounces or less during lawful hours.
Statutory reference:
   Sunday sales, see S.C. Code § 61-4-120
§ 26-24 DRINKING ON PREMISES OF LICENSED RETAILER, WHOLESALER OR MANUFACTURER
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic liquors on the
premises of any retail, wholesale or manufacturing alcoholic liquor business or
business establishment.
§ 26-25 POSTING OF PERMIT AND HEALTH CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   Both the permit issued by the state and the certificate of approval issued
by the state’s Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) shall be
conspicuously posted on the premises.
§ 26-26 UNLAWFUL PURCHASES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase or otherwise procure any
alcoholic liquor other than that purchased from licensed dealers within the
state.
§ 26-27 CONSUMPTION AT CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic
beverages at places where athletic contests are being conducted and on the
grounds of a school, church or business parking lot.
   (B)   Public property. It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or
have in his possession beer, wine or liquor in an open container on the
sidewalks, street, alleyways, roads or other public place within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (C)   Possession of container evidence of violation. Possession of an open
container as described in subsection (B) above shall constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
   (D)   Exception. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession of beer, wine or liquor in a closed container.
§§ 26-28—26-57 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALITY, DECENCY AND PUBLIC WELFARE
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
26-58   Keeping bawdy houses
   
26-59   Adult clubs
   
26-60   Obscene material
   
26-61   Disturbing the peace
   
26-62   Loitering
   
26-63   Closing or interfering with streets, sidewalks and the like without
consent
   
26-64   Spitting in public
   
26-65   Creating public nuisance or disturbance in drunken condition
   
26-66   School disturbances
   
26-67   Trick or treating on Halloween without supervision or after 9:00 p.m.
   
26-68   Fortunetelling, palmistry and the like
   26-69—26-96   Reserved
Division 2. Gambling
   
26-97   Prohibited; exceptions
   
26-98   Confiscating and destroying paraphernalia
   
26-99   Maintaining house, room or place
   26-100—26-126   Reserved
Division 3. Illegal Purposes
   
26-127   Inviting, enticing or soliciting
   
26-128   Transporting, carrying or assisting
   
26-129   Giving information or direction to place
   
26-130   Taking, renting, using or occupying place
   26-131—26-158   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact ordinances to preserve health, peace and order, see  S.C.
Code § 5-7-30
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 26-58 KEEPING BAWDY HOUSES.
   The keeping of a bawdy house, disorderly house or a house of prostitution
within the corporate limits shall be deemed a misdemeanor for the owner or
lessee of any dwelling house, or other building situated within the corporate
limits, to let or sublet such dwelling house or other building to any person to
be used, or with the knowledge that the same is intended to be used, and kept
as a bawdy house or house of prostitution.
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful to keep or set up a bawdy house, see S.C. Code § 16-15-90(6)
§ 26-59 ADULT CLUBS.
   (A)   Defined. The term ADULT CLUBS means any businesses catering to adults
for the purpose of exciting its customers in a salacious manner.
   (B)   Prohibited. Such clubs are hereby declared unlawful in the town.
§ 26-60 OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post or make any indecent, obscene or
profane writing or pictures, or to make, sell, exhibit or offer for sale any
indecent or lewd book, picture or anything of like character.
§ 26-61 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself or herself in such a
manner as to result in a disturbance of the peace to the inhabitants of the
town or to knowingly aid, assist or abet therein.
§ 26-62 LOITERING.
   (A)   Defined. For purposes of this section, the term LOITER includes, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Obstructing the unhampered passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      (2)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully upon
any street, park or other public place; or
      (3)   Refusing to move when requested to do so by a peace officer;
provided, the peace officer has exercised his or her discretion reasonably
under the circumstances in order to preserve or promote public peace and order.
   (B)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or upon
any street, park, public place or in any public building or obstruct the access
to any public building or any part thereof, or obstruct the passage of any
person through any public street, park or public place.
§ 26-63 CLOSING OR INTERFERING WITH STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE WITHOUT
CONSENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to close or in any manner interfere with
the free use of any public street or thoroughfare, sidewalk or alley without
the previous written consent of the Mayor and Council.
§ 26-64 SPITTING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any sidewalk or other
public place, or upon the floor, walls or any other part of any building or
room which is used by the public.
§ 26-65 CREATING PUBLIC NUISANCE OR DISTURBANCE IN DRUNKEN CONDITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance or disturbance upon
the public streets or in any public place in a drunken condition.
Statutory reference:
   Public disorderly conduct, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 26-66 SCHOOL DISTURBANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Willfully or unnecessarily:
      (1)   Interfere with or disturb in any way or in any place the students
or teachers of any school;
      (2)   Loiter about such school premises; or
      (3)   Act in an obnoxious manner thereon.
   (B)   Enter upon any school premises or loiter around the premises, except
on business, without the permission of the principal or person in charge.
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing schools, see S.C. Code § 16-17-420
§ 26-67 TRICK OR TREATING ON HALLOWEEN WITHOUT SUPERVISION OR AFTER 9:00 P.M.
   (A)   Prohibited. Any person under 12 years of age may participate in the
act of “trick or treat” on Halloween night. All persons under said age shall be
accompanied by a parent or responsible person. All “trick or treat” activities
shall normally be concluded not later than 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to organized and supervised
Halloween parties such as schools, churches, private homes and the like.
§ 26-68 FORTUNETELLING, PALMISTRY AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business, trade or profession of
fortunetelling, palmistry, phrenology, clairvoyance or the prediction of future
events by cards or other means or to offer to tell fortunes or predict future
events by palmistry, astrology, clairvoyance, cards or other means as an
inducement to promote some other business, trade or profession.
§§ 26-69—26-96 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. GAMBLING
§ 26-97 PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in gambling or games of
chance, to keep or operate, or permit to be kept or operated, any slot
machines, punchboard, tipboard or other device pertaining to games of chance of
whatsoever name or kind.
   (B)   Exceptions to the provisions of subsection (A) above shall include
automatic weighing, measuring, musical and vending machines which are so
constructed as to give a certain uniform and fair return in value for each coin
or bill deposited therein, and in which there is no element of chance, as may
be permitted by state statutes.
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful games and betting, see S.C. Code § 16-19-40
§ 26-98 CONFISCATING AND DESTROYING PARAPHERNALIA.
   Upon the charging of any person in the Municipal Court of a violation of § 
26-97 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the police, whenever possible,
to seize and take into possession any gaming device, machines, punchboard,
tipboard or other device of whatever name or kind pertaining to games of
chance. Upon conviction in the Municipal Court, it shall be the duty of the
police officers of the town to destroy the gaming device of whatever name or
kind.
Statutory reference:
   Destruction of gambling devices after confiscation, see S.C. Code § 16-19-
120
§ 26-99 MAINTAINING HOUSE, ROOM OR PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a gambling house or
room or place where people resort to engage in gambling or games of chance, or
to permit gambling or games of chance in any building on his, her or their
premises or under his, her or their control.
§§ 26-100—26-126 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. ILLEGAL PURPOSES
§ 26-127 INVITING, ENTICING OR SOLICITING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to invite or entice any person upon any
street, public square or enclosure to accompany, go with or follow such person
to any place for illegal purposes, or to incite, entice or address any person
from any door, window, porch or portico of any house or building, to enter any
house, go with or accompany such person to any place for illegal purposes.
Statutory reference:
   Prostitution, see S.C. Code § 16-15-90
§ 26-128 TRANSPORTING, CARRYING OR ASSISTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, convey or assist by
aiding, abetting, encouraging, requesting or other, in transporting, carrying,
conveying in or accompanying by any ways and means whatsoever any person for
any illegal purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Transporting persons for the purpose of prostitution, see S.C. Code § 16-15-
90(9)
§ 26-129 GIVING INFORMATION OR DIRECTION TO PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give information about any house or
place for illegal purposes, whether the communication be by word of mouth, or
direction, telephone or in writing.
§ 26-130 TAKING, RENTING, USING OR OCCUPYING PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, rent, use or occupy any place
for illegal purposes.
Statutory reference:
   Use of buildings for lewdness declared a nuisance, see S.C. Code § 15-43-10
§§ 26-131—26-158 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
26-159   Town designated as crime watch area
   
26-160   Disorderly conduct
   
26-161   Disorderly conduct; drunken condition; disturbing public gatherings
   
26-162   Swearing falsely when taking oaths
   
26-163   Interfering with or disturbing worship, public gathering or meeting
   
26-164   Instigating, aiding or participating in riot where no weapon used or
injuries sustained
   
26-165   Loud and disturbing noises
   
26-166   Possessing drug paraphernalia
   
26-167   Disrupting court proceedings or Council meetings
   26-168—26-187   Reserved
Division 2. Weapons
   
26-188   Carrying firearms; exceptions
   
26-189   Pointing or discharging firearms or other dangerous devices
   
26-190   Open carry with training
   26-191—26-216   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 26-159 TOWN DESIGNATED AS CRIME WATCH AREA.
   (A)   When authorized by ordinance, the Mayor and Council hereby declare the
town to be a “crime watch area,” and hereby authorize the placing of signs upon
highway rights-of-way upon highways entering the town designating the community
as a “Crime Watch Area”.
   (B)   Appropriate signs shall be placed in accordance with the state’s
Department of Transportation (SCDOT) regulations, as authorized by the general
assembly.
Statutory reference:
   Authority for Department of Transportation to erect certain signs requested
by local governing bodies, see S.C. Code § 57-3-110(11)
§ 26-160 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term PUBLIC means affecting or
likely to affect any person in a place to which the public or a substantial
group has access. The term PUBLIC includes, but is not limited to, the
following places:
      (1)   Highways;
      (2)   Transport facilities;
      (3)   Schools;
      (4)   Prisons;
      (5)   Apartment houses;
      (6)   Places of business or entertainment;
      (7)   Governmental buildings;
      (8)   Any neighborhood; and
      (9)   The inside of automobiles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to conduct oneself in a disorderly manner with
the purpose to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, alarm or recklessly
create a risk thereof by:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, threatening, violent or tumultuous behavior,
or breach of the peace;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture
or display, or addresses of abusive language to any person present;
      (3)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose; or
      (4)   Lewd or indecent conduct by scurrilous, obscene, indecent or
profane writing, picture, mark or figure on any wall, fence, house or
structure.
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 26-161 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; DRUNKEN CONDITION; DISTURBING PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to behave disorderly in any public hall
or other place of amusement, entertainment or gathering or to enter the same in
a drunken condition or to interrupt any play, performance, lecture,
entertainment or service therein or any player, speaker or other person taking
part therein.
§ 26-162 SWEARING FALSELY WHEN TAKING OATHS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly swear falsely
under oath in giving evidence in the Municipal Court, or at any other time or
place within the corporate limits where an oath has been taken before any
person who may be qualified to administer oaths.
§ 26-163 INTERFERING WITH OR DISTURBING WORSHIP, PUBLIC GATHERING OR MEETING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or disturb any
religious worship or public gathering or meeting.
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing religious worship prohibited, see S.C. Code § 16-17-520
§ 26-164 INSTIGATING, AIDING OR PARTICIPATING IN RIOT WHERE NO WEAPON USED OR
INJURIES SUSTAINED.
   Any person, upon conviction of engaging in a riot, rout or affray when no
weapon was actually used and no wound inflicted, shall be subject to and liable
for each offense as a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Engaging in a riot, see S.C. Code § 16-5-120
§ 26-165 LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISES.
   (A)   Prohibited. The creation of any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise
and noises of such character, intensity and duration as are reasonably
calculated to be detrimental to the life or health of any ordinary, reasonable
person are hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Examples. The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud
and disturbing noises in violation of this section; provided, however, that,
such enumeration shall not be construed to be exclusive of other noises:
      (1)   Vehicle horn or signal device. The sounding of any horn or signal
device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus, streetcar or other vehicle while:
         (a)   Not in motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is
approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion only as a danger signal
after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is
intended;
         (b)   The creation by means of any such signal device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and
         (c)   The sounding of such device for any unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   Playing radios, phonographs or other musical instrument. The
playing of any radio, phonograph or any musical instrument in such manner, or
with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. as to create a noise such as is reasonably calculated to disturb a person
of ordinary disposition under the same or similar circumstances residing in a
dwelling or other type of residence in the vicinity;
      (3)   Out of repair vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle,
streetcar or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or operated in such a manner
as to create loud noises such as spinning or squealing tires, grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (4)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as
a warning of danger;
      (5)   Exhaust noises. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal-combustion engine, motor vehicle or boat
engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom;
      (6)   Operating compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical device
operated by compressed air, except pneumatic drills, unless the noise thereby
created is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (7)   Construction in building in residential/business district. The
erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any
building in a residential or business district other than between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public safety, and then only with a permit from the Town Council,
which permit may be renewed fora period of three days or less while the
emergency continues;
      (8)   Excessive noise near schools, courts and the like. The creation of
any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of
learning or court while the same are in session, which unreasonably interferes
with the working of such institution; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed
in such streets indicating that the same is a school, institution or court
street;
      (9)   Loading/unloading vehicles. The creation of a loud and excessive
noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening
and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers;
      (10)   Bells and gongs. The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any
building or premises which is reasonably calculated to disturb a person of
ordinary disposition if such person were in the vicinity thereof; provided,
however, that, this subsection (B)(10) shall not apply to houses of worship;
      (11)   Shouting/crying wares in neighborhoods. The shouting and crying of
peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturbs the quiet and peace of the
neighborhood;
      (12)   Using instruments or devices to attract attention. The use of any
drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting
attention by creation of noise to any performance, show or sale of merchandise;
      (13)   Operating business after hours. The operation of any garage,
service station, auto repair business, taxi business, plant, store, factory or
other place of business, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a
manner as to create loud and disturbing noises, as to annoy or disturb the
quiet and comfort of any citizen, and particularly the creating of disturbing
noises as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, peace or repose of any person
in any dwelling, hotel, boardinghouse or other type of residence;
      (14)   Excessive noise from motor vehicles. The starting of a motor
vehicle engine of any kind using excessive acceleration or creating loud
noises, or at any time to commence or continue the movement of any such vehicle
with the spinning of tires or any other excessive noise. Any motor vehicle
operated within the town shall be kept under proper control at all times; and
      (15)   Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which by
causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of
any persons in the vicinity.
§ 26-166 POSSESSING DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Defined. The term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment, product and
material of any kind which is used, intended for use or designed for use, in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance.
   (B)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful to possess drug paraphernalia within
the corporate limits with the intent of selling, donating or otherwise
distributing same for use to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this section.
§ 26-167 DISRUPTING COURT PROCEEDINGS OR COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt the court proceedings of
the Municipal Judge or any meeting of the Mayor and Council, or be guilty of
disorderly conduct therein, or to commit any contempt of either.
§§ 26-168—26-187 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. WEAPONS
§ 26-188 CARRYING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry about the person, whether
concealed or not, any pistol, except as follows:
   (A)   Any person carrying a permit issued by lawful authority, pursuant to
state statutes;
   (B)   Marshals, sheriffs, police officers or other law enforcement officers,
or peace officers of the federal government or other states when they are
carrying out official duties while in the state;
   (C)   Members of the United States armed forces or National Guard, organized
reserves or the state militia when on duty;
   (D)   Members of organizations authorized by law to purchase or receive
firearms from the United States or the state, or regularly enrolled members of
clubs organized for the purpose of target shooting or collecting modern and
antique firearms while the members are at or going to, or from their places of
target practice, or their shows and exhibits;
   (E)   Licensed hunters or fishermen while engaged in hunting or fishing;
   (F)   Any person regularly engaged in the business of manufacturing,
repairing, repossessing or dealing in firearms, or the agent or representative
of that person while possessing, using or carrying a pistol in the usual or
ordinary course of business;
   (G)   Guards of common carriers, banks and other financial institutions
while engaged in that capacity and guards engaged in the protection of property
of the United States or any agency thereof;
   (H)   Any authorized military or civil organizations while parading or the
members thereof when going to and from the places of meeting of their
respective organizations;
   (I)   Any person in his or her home, or upon his or her real property, or
fixed place of business;
   (J)   Any person in any vehicle where the pistol is secured in a closed
glove compartment or closed trunk;
   (K)   Any person carrying a pistol unloaded and in a secure wrapper:
      (1)   From the place of purchase to his or her home or fixed place of
business; or
      (2)   While in the process of the changing or moving of his or her
residence or the changing or moving of his or her fixed place of business.
   (L)   Any night watchman while engaged in his or her duties as a night
watchman.
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful carrying of a handgun and exceptions, see S.C. Code § 16-23-20
§ 26-189 POINTING OR DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR OTHER DANGEROUS DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to point, fire or discharge, attempt to point,
fire or discharge or cause to be pointed, fired or discharged any firearm
within the municipal limits of the town. Firearm is described in this section
without limitation, any pistol, rifle, shotgun, air gun, spring loaded gun,
crossbow, bow and arrow, or any other devise capable of firing a dangerous
projectile.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the
performance of his or her duty, nor shall it be construed to prohibit any
citizen from discharging a firearm lawfully defending his or her person when in
fear of life or serious bodily harm or when lawfully defending the life
another; or
      (2)   Any person discharging a firearm to protect people, pets and
property from animals that the person reasonably believes to pose a direct
threat or danger to people and/or pets or cause damage to property from such
animal.
(Ord. 2020-013, passed 11-16-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Pointing a firearm at any person, see S.C. Code § 16-23-410
§ 26-190 OPEN CARRY WITH TRAINING.
   (A)   Findings and determinations. The Mayor and Council of the town hereby
finds and determines:
      (1)   The South Carolina General Assembly passed the Open Carry with
Training Act (hereinafter, “the Act”), and Governor Henry D McMaster signed the
Act into law on 5-17-2021, being H*3094;
      (2)   Due to the Act’s 90-day implementation delay, the law will not go
into effect until 8-15-2021;
      (3)   The Act will allow for a person to carry a handgun openly on or
about his or her person so long as the person has received a valid concealed
weapons permit from the state’s Law Enforcement Division, pursuant to the
provisions set forth in S.C. Code Art. 4, Ch. 31, Title 23;
      (4)   Pursuant to amended S.C. Code § 23-31-520, counties and other local
governments throughout the state may temporarily restrict the otherwise lawful
open carrying of a firearm on public property during certain events; and
      (5)   The Town Council wishes to provide guidance to the citizens of the
town in response to the Act and to provide for the public health and safety for
the citizens of the town by its regulation of the open carrying of a firearm on
public property during certain events.
   (B)   Temporary restriction of open carry on public property with permit.
      (1)   Notwithstanding another provision of law, the town may temporarily
restrict the otherwise lawful open carrying of a firearm on public property
when issuing a permit to allow a public protest, rally, fair, parade, festival
or other organized event. However, if a permit is not applied for and issued
prior to an event as described in this subsection (B)(1), the town may not
exercise the provisions of this subsection (B)(1).
      (2)   Permits shall be required of any person or entity hosting a
protest, rally, fair, festival or other organized event on public property.
      (3)   A person or entity hosting a public protest, rally, fair, parade,
festival or other organized event must post signs at the event when open
carrying is allowed or not allowed at the event pursuant to the terms of the
issued permit
      (4)   The town, when exercising the authority granted to them by amended
S.C. Code § 23-31-520, must be specific in the area, duration and manner in
which the restriction upon open carry is imposed and must provide prior notice
of the restriction when feasible. In no event may the restriction extend beyond
the beginning and conclusion of the event or beyond the location of the event.
      (5)   The duration of an event may not be scheduled for such a length of
time as to frustrate the intent of this section.
      (6)   The town may not confiscate a firearm or ammunition for a violation
of this section unless incident to an otherwise lawful arrest.
   (C)   Authority to act. The Mayor, Town Council, Clerk to Council, Town
Administrator, Town Attorney and all other appropriate officials of the town
are authorized and directed to take such actions and do any and all things
necessary or desirable in connection with implementing this section and
effectuating the intent of this section.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 12-14-2021)
§§ 26-191—26-216 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
26-217   Malicious mischief
   
26-218   Damaging property
   
26-219   Failing to leave premises when requested
   
26-220   Petit larceny
   
26-221   Buying, receiving or possessing stolen goods
   
26-222   Trespassing
   
26-223   Obtaining signature or property by false pretenses
   
26-224   Unlawfully obtaining credit or property
   
26-225   Securing property by fraudulent impersonation of officer
   
26-226   Shoplifting
   
26-227   Gaining admission to public events without payment
   
26-228   Breaking into motor vehicle, gasoline tank, pump and the like
   
26-229   Issuing bad checks
   
26-230   Removing or altering boundary tree, landmark and the like
   
26-231   Removing, destroying and the like of fencing
   
26-232   Failing to return; town property upon termination of employment
   
26-233   Same; books, newspapers and the like borrowed from public institutions
   
26-234   Operating junkyard
   26-235—26-261   Reserved
§ 26-217 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously destroy or
in any manner injure any property, real or personal, public or private, not his
or her own within the town.
§ 26-218 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall damage any goods, wares or merchandise, or other
personal property of another person, or any public property, or who shall
damage or destroy any fencing, trees, shrubbery or buildings on the land of
another or belonging to any other person, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Malicious injury to animals and other personal property, see S.C. Code § 16-
11-510
   Malicious injury to tree, house, outside fence or fixture, see S.C. Code
§ 16-11-520
§ 26-219 FAILING TO LEAVE PREMISES WHEN REQUESTED.
   Any person who, when requested to leave the premises of another or the house
wherein any one or more persons shall conduct business (except offices of
public officers), shall refuse to do so, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Refusing to leave on request, see S.C. Code § 16-11-620
§ 26-220 PETIT LARCENY.
   (A)   Defined. For purposes of this section, the term PETIT LARCENY means
any article of goods, choses in action, bank bills, bills receivable, chattels
or other articles of personalty of which, by law, larceny (i.e., the taking of
almost anything of value without the owner’s consent with the intent to
permanently deprive him or her of the value of the property taken) may be
committed or of any such fixture or part or product of the soil, severed from
the soil by an unlawful act or has a value of $1,000 or less.
   (B)   Prohibited. The act of petit larceny as described in subsection (A)
above is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Petit larceny, see S.C. Code § 16-13-30
§ 26-221 BUYING, RECEIVING OR POSSESSING STOLEN GOODS.
   Any person who shall buy, receive or have in his or her possession any goods
or chattels or other property, knowing the same to have been stolen, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Receiving stolen goods, see S.C. Code § 16-13-180
§ 26-222 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   “Private property” defined. For purposes of this section, the term
PRIVATE PROPERTY means the house and land surrounding the house, either owned,
rented or occupied by any person.
   (B)   Prohibited. The following acts are prohibited.
      (1)   Every entry upon the lands of another where any horse, mule, cow,
hog or any other livestock is pastured, or any other lands of another, after
notice from the owner or tenant prohibiting such entry, shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person entering upon the lands of another for the purpose of
hunting, fishing, trapping, netting, gathering fruit, wild flowers, cultivated
flowers, shrubbery, straw, turf, vegetables or herbs or cutting timber on the
same, without the consent of the owner or manager thereof, upon conviction,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Posting notices. When any owner or tenant of any lands shall post a
notice in four conspicuous places on the borders of such land prohibiting entry
thereon, a proof of the posting shall be deemed and taken as notice conclusive
against the person making entry, as stated in this section, for the purpose of
trespassing.
§ 26-223 OBTAINING SIGNATURE OR PROPERTY BY FALSE PRETENSES.
   Any person who shall, by any false pretense or representation, obtain the
signature of any person to any written instrument or shall obtain for any other
person any chattel, money, valuable security or other property, real or
personal, if the sum of the written instrument or the value of the property so
obtained does not exceed $1,000, with the intent to cheat and defraud any
person of such property, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
the punishment shall be not more than is permitted by law without presentment
or indictment by the grand jury.
Statutory reference:
   Obtaining signature or property by false pretenses, see S.C. Code §§ 16-13-
240, 16-13-260
§ 26-224 UNLAWFULLY OBTAINING CREDIT OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates of requires a
different meaning.
      CREDIT CARD. An identification card, credit number, credit device or
other credit document issued to a person by a business organization which
permits such person to purchase or obtain goods, property or services on the
credit of such organization.
      NOTICE. Includes whether the notice was given to the purchaser in person
or in writing. Such NOTICE, in writing, shall be presumed to have been given
when deposited as registered or certified matter, in the United States mail,
addressed to such person at his or her address as it appears in the files of
the issuer of the credit card.
   (B)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use, for
the purpose of obtaining credit or for the purchase of goods, property or
services:
      (1)   A credit card which has not been issued to such person and which is
not used with the consent of the person to whom issued;
      (2)   A credit card which has been revoked or canceled by the issuer of
such card and notice thereof has been given to such person;
      (3)   A credit card which has expired; or
      (4)   A credit card which is false, fictitious or counterfeit.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this section, when the
amount of credit or purchase obtained is less than $50, upon conviction, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 26-225 SECURING PROPERTY BY FRAUDULENT IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   Anyone who shall take upon himself or herself to act as an officer with the
intent to defraud any government or person, or shall in such pretension or
pretended character demand, obtain or receive from any government or person any
money, paper, document or other valuable thing of a value less than or equal to
$200, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Securing property by fraudulent impersonation of an officer, see S.C. Code
§ 16-13-290
§ 26-226 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   Shoplifting is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon conviction, a person shall be guilty of shoplifting if he or she:
      (1)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers from one person to
another or from one area of a wholesale or retail mercantile establishment to
another area, or cause to be carried away or transferred any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale by any wholesale or retail
mercantile establishment with the intention of depriving the owner of the
possession, use or benefit of said merchandise without paying the full value
thereof;
      (2)   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag marking,
indication of value or any other markings which aid in determining value
affixed to any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a
wholesale or retail mercantile establishment and attempts to purchase such
merchandise personally or in consort with another at less than the established
value with the intention of depriving the owner of the full value of said
merchandise; and
      (3)   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale by any store or other retail mercantile establishment from the container
in which it is displayed to any other container with the intent to deprive the
merchant of the full retail value.
Statutory reference:
   Shoplifting, see S.C. Code § 16-13-110
§ 26-227 GAINING ADMISSION TO PUBLIC EVENTS WITHOUT PAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   Where an admission charge is made, to gain admittance to any athletic
contest or other public event, without paying the price of admission;
   (B)   Unless upon his or her own premises, to witness an athletic contest or
other public event, where an admission is charged, without paying the price of
said admission; and/or
   (C)   To aid, abet or assist in any way any other person to witness any
athletic contest or other public event without said person paying the admission
charge.
§ 26-228 BREAKING INTO MOTOR VEHICLE, GASOLINE TANK, PUMP AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whoever shall break or attempt to break into any motor vehicle or any
compartment thereof, in the daytime or in the nighttime, with the intent to
steal the same or anything of value therefrom or attached or annexed thereto or
used in connection therewith or in the perpetuation of any criminal offense,
upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Whoever shall break or attempt to break any tank, pump or other
vessel, where kerosene, gasoline or lubricating oil is stored or kept, with the
intent to steal any such product therein contained, upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Breaking into motor vehicles, see S.C. Code § 16-13-160
§ 26-229 ISSUING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   State provisions adopted. The provisions of S.C. Code §§ 34-11-10 et
seq. are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in
this section.
   (B)   Penalty fee.
      (1)   For such checks issued to the town, a penalty fee shall be charged
the issuer.
      (2)   Such fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by
the Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available
for public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 73, passed 4-24-2000)
§ 26-230 REMOVING OR ALTERING BOUNDARY TREE, LANDMARK AND THE LIKE.
   If any person shall knowingly, willfully, maliciously or fraudulently cut,
fell, alter or move any certain boundary tree or other allowed landmark, lamp
post, post or shade tree, such person so offending, upon conviction, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Altering or removing landmarks, see S.C. Code § 16-11-680
§ 26-231 REMOVING, DESTROYING AND THE LIKE OF FENCING.
   Any person other than the owner who shall remove, destroy or leave down any
portion of any fence intended to enclose animals of any kind, crop or
uncultivated lands or who shall leave open any gate or leave down any bars or
other structure intended for a like purpose, upon conviction, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
§ 26-232 FAILING TO RETURN; TOWN PROPERTY UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Upon leaving town employment or any town office, it shall be unlawful for
any employee or official, including volunteers, to fail to return to the town
any town property or equipment issued to him, including this code.
§ 26-233 SAME; BOOKS, NEWSPAPERS AND THE LIKE BORROWED FROM PUBLIC
INSTITUTIONS.
   Whoever shall borrow from any library, school, museum, collection or
exhibition any book, newspaper, magazine, manuscript, pamphlet, publication,
recording, film or other article belonging to or in the care of said
organizations, under any agreement to return it, thereafter shall fail to
return said borrowed article, shall be given written notice, mailed to his or
her last known address by certified mail or delivered in person, to return such
borrowed article within 15 days, and in the event that such person shall
thereafter willfully and knowingly fail to return such borrowed article within
15 days, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Statutory reference:
   Requirement to return books borrowed from public institutions, see S.C. Code
§ 16-13-340
§ 26-234 OPERATING JUNKYARD.
   (A)   Prohibited. No junkyard, whether for automobiles, machinery or other
junk equipment, shall be operated in the town. No license shall be issued for
such a business.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to junk dealers who maintain
their business in a completely enclosed building.
§§ 26-235—26-261 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
Section
   
26-262   Assault and battery
   
26-263   Pointing firearm
   
26-264   Throwing stones, sticks and the like
   
26-265   Abandoning or discarding refrigerator, ice chest and the like
   
26-266   Abandoning unprotected well or pit
   26-267—26-295   Reserved
§ 26-262 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault and battery upon
any other person.
§ 26-263 POINTING FIREARM.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to point at any other
person any loaded or unloaded firearm.
   (B)   Exception. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
abridge the right of self- defense or to apply to theatrical or like
performances or to peace officers in the discharge of their duties.
§ 26-264 THROWING STONES, STICKS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any stone, stick or other
object whereby any person may be, or shall be, hit or hurt, or any window
broken, or other property belonging to another damaged or destroyed.
§ 26-265 ABANDONING OR DISCARDING REFRIGERATOR, ICE CHEST AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard any
refrigerator, ice chest or other type of air-tight container of a capacity
sufficient to contain any child without, prior to such abandonment, removing
the door, lid or other device for the closing thereof.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person in charge of property to
knowingly permit any such container to remain thereon accessible to children
without removing the door, lid or other device for the closing thereof.
Statutory reference:
   Failing to remove doors from abandoned air-tight containers, see S.C. Code
§ 16-3-1010
§ 26-266 ABANDONING UNPROTECTED WELL OR PIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant to permit or allow any
abandoned well or pit to remain open and unprotected on any place or premises
owned or occupied by such person.
Statutory reference:
   Open and unprotected abandoned wells, see S.C. Code § 16-3-1020
§§ 26-267—26-295 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: MINORS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   26-296—26-323   Reserved
Division 2. Youth Protection Curfew
   
26-324   Definitions
   
26-325   Established; purpose
   
26-326   Violations; generally
   
26-327   Same; defenses or exceptions
   
26-328   Enforcement
   26-329—26-359   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§§ 26-296—26-323 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. YOUTH PROTECTION CURFEW
§ 26-324 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC OFFENDER. A juvenile who has violated this division three or more
times.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public has access or is invited including, but is not limited to, any
place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. A person who:
      (1)   Is the guardian of a juvenile under court order; or
      (2)   Is a public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed
by a court order.
   JUVENILE. A person who has not reached his or her seventeenth birthday and
is not married, emancipated or a member of the United States armed forces.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term OPERATOR includes
the active, local employees, members or partners of an association or
partnership and the local officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. A birth parent, adoptive parent or the spouse of a birth or adoptive
parent of a juvenile.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A juvenile who has violated the curfew established in § 26-
325 at least two times.
   RESTRICTED HOURS.
 
August 16 - May 31 Sunday - Thursday 11:00 p.m. - 6:00 a.m.
                   Friday - Saturday 12:00 midnight - 6:00 a.m.
June 1 - August 15 All days          12:00 midnight - 6:00 a.m.
 
§ 26-325 ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this division is to protect juveniles from victimization and
exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for juveniles under 17
years of age in the town. The youth protection curfew is intended to reinforce
and promote the role of the parent in raising and guiding children, and promote
the health, safety and welfare of both juveniles and adults by creating an
environment offering better protection and security for all concerned.
§ 26-326 VIOLATIONS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as provided by § 
26-327 of this chapter, the following acts are offenses constituting a
violation of this division:
      (1)   A juvenile commits an offense by loitering, wandering, strolling or
playing in or upon the public streets, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, vacant lots or any other place when
unsupervised by a parent or guardian having the lawful authority to be at such
places inside the town during the restricted hours as defined in § 
26-324 of this chapter;
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense when he or
she knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, a juvenile to engage
in the conduct set forth in subsection (A)(1) above. The term KNOWINGLY means
knowledge that a parent or guardian should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent or guardian’s legal
custody. This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent
up to a reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an
objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities, conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile; and
      (3)   The owner, operator or employee of an establishment commits an
offense when he or she knowingly permits any juvenile subject to the youth
protection curfew to be in or upon or remain on or upon the premises or grounds
of the establishment without his or her parent or guardian. The term KNOWINGLY
means knowledge that an operator or employer should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the patrons of an establishment. The standard for the term
KNOWINGLY shall be applied through an objective test: whether a reasonable
person through the operator’s or employee’s position should have known that the
patron was a juvenile in violation of this article. It is a defense to
prosecution under this subsection (A)(3) that an owner, operator or employee of
an establishment promptly notified the Police Department that a juvenile was
present on the premises of the establishment during the restricted hours and
refused to leave.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person 17 years of age
or older to aid or abet a juvenile in violation of subsection (A) above.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this article for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody, during the restricted hours, of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible.
§ 26-327 SAME; DEFENSES OR EXCEPTIONS.
   The following, when verified, shall constitute a defense or exception to the
enforcement of the youth protection curfew:
   (A)   The juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
   (B)   The juvenile is on an errand, at the direction of the juvenile’s
parent or guardian, without any detour or stopping, until 12:30 a.m.;
   (C)   The juvenile is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   The juvenile is engaged in an employment activity or going or
returning home from an employment activity without any detour or stopping;
   (E)   The juvenile is out because of a verifiable emergency of the juvenile
or his or her family;
   (F)   The juvenile is on his or her residential property or the property of
a next door neighbor, if the neighbor does not complain to the Police
Department about the juvenile’s presence;
   (G)   The juvenile is attending an official school, religious, or other
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic
organization, a church, synagogue or temple, or another entity that takes
responsibility for the juvenile, or the juvenile is returning home from such
activity without any detour or stopping; or
   (H)   The juvenile is exercising his or her First Amendment rights protected
by the United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech and the right of assembly.
§ 26-328 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Juveniles. When a juvenile is found to be in violation of this
division, the officer shall inquire of the records to determine whether the
juvenile is a first offender, repeat offender or chronic offender.
      (1)   First offender. If the juvenile is a first offender, he or she will
be given a warning and transported to the Police Department, where a
responsible adult will be contacted to retrieve the juvenile, or where
convenient for the officer and within the town limits, the juvenile may be
transported to the residence of his or her parent or guardian.
      (2)   Chronic offender. A juvenile who is a chronic offender of the youth
protection curfew will be referred to the county’s Department of Juvenile
Justice.
      (3)   Incident report for children ten years or younger. If the juvenile
is ten years of age or younger, a copy of the incident report will be forwarded
to the county’s Department of Social Services.
   (B)   Parents and guardians. A parent or guardian of a repeat offender, who
is found guilty in the Municipal Court of violating this division shall be
subject to a fine or be imprisoned for up to 30 days. The Municipal Court may,
in its discretion, require a specified number of hours of community service in
lieu of a fine or imprisonment.
   (C)   Establishment owners and operators. An owner or operator of an
establishment who is found guilty in the Municipal Court of violating this
division shall be subject to a fine or imprisoned for up to 30 days. The
Municipal Court may, in its discretion, require a specified number of hours of
community service in lieu of a fine or imprisonment.
§§ 26-329—26-359 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: PENALTIES
Section
   
26-360   Parties to crime
   
26-361   Plea entries or posting bail
   
26-362   Non-compliance with chapter constitutes misdemeanor
   26-363—26-385   Reserved
§ 26-360 PARTIES TO CRIME.
   Every person who, whether present or absent, commits, attempts to commit,
conspires to commit or aids or abets in the commission of any act violating any
provision of this chapter, whether individually or in connection with one or
more other persons or as a principal, agent or accessory, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of such violation. Every person who falsely,
fraudulently, forcibly or willfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits
or directs another to violate any such provisions, upon conviction, shall be
guilty of such offense.
Statutory reference:
   Accessory, see S.C. Code § 16-1-40
§ 26-361 PLEA ENTRIES OR POSTING BAIL.
   The entry of any plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of any
bail posted for the violation of any provision of this chapter or for the
violation of any other law or municipal ordinance shall have the same effect as
a conviction after trial under such provision.
§ 26-362 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER CONSTITUTES MISDEMEANOR.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
§§ 26-363—26-385 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
26-386   Legislative findings
   
26-387   Definitions
   
26-388   Application to county-owned facilities and vehicles
   
26-389   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
26-390   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
26-391   Where smoking not regulated
   
26-392   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
26-393   Posting of signs
   
26-394   Non-retaliation; non-waiver of rights
   
26-395   Enforcement
   
26-396   Public education
   
26-397   Governmental agency cooperation
   
26-398   Other applicable laws
   
26-399   Interpretation for intent
   
26-400   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. 152, adopted 3-18-2013, adopted the County Smoking Ord.
1167, Art. IV, §§ 23-51—23-65
§ 26-386 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   Incident to the adoption of this article, the County Council finds that:
   (A)   Lancaster County is a body politic and political subdivision of the
state and as such possesses all powers granted to counties by the Constitution
and the laws of the state, including the powers enumerated in S.C. Code §§ 4-9-
10 et seq. The County Council is authorized and empowered to enact regulations,
resolutions and ordinances in relation to health and order in counties or
respecting any subject as appears to them necessary or proper for the security,
general welfare and convenience of counties or for preserving health, peace,
order and good government in them as provided in S.C. Code §§ 4-9-10 et seq.,
as amended, including S.C. Code § 4-9-25 thereof and the general law;
   (B)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major contributor
to indoor air pollution and that breathing second-hand smoke (also known as
environmental tobacco smoke) is a cause of disease in healthy non-smokers,
including heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease and lung cancer. The
National Cancer Institute has determined that secondhand smoke is responsible
for the early deaths of up to 65,000 Americans annually. [National Cancer
Institute (NCI), “health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke;
the report of the California Environmental Protection Agency, Smoking and
Tobacco Control Monograph 10,” Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health,
National Cancer Institute (NCI), August 1999.]. The Surgeon General has
declared that:
      (1)   Secondhand smoke causes disease and premature death in non-smokers
exposed to smoke;
      (2)   Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk for
sudden death syndrome, acute respiratory infections, ear problems and more
severe asthma;
      (3)   Adults exposed to secondary smoke have a higher risk of coronary
heart disease and lung cancer;
      (4)   There is no safe level of exposure to second-hand smoke; and
      (5)   Separating smoking and non-smoking sections of indoor areas does
not sufficiently remove the threats of second-hand smoke in enclosed areas.
   (C)   A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the
workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled businesses suffer a 25-50% higher
risk of heart attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular disease and
cancer, as well as increased acute respiratory disease and measurable decrease
in lung function (Pitsavos, C; Panagiotakos, D.B.; Chrysohoon, C; Skoumas, J.;
Tzioumis, K.; Stefanadis, C; Toutouzas, P., “Association between exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke and the development of acute coronary syndromes:
the CARIO2000 case-control study, “Tobacco Control” 11(33): 220-225, September
2002);
   (D)   When there is a presence of second-hand smoke in enclosed spaces or in
outside areas where there is a public gathering resulting in people being in
close proximity in places that are otherwise open to the public at large
persons who do not smoke are forced to bear unwarranted health risks and
inappropriate deprivation of peaceful enjoyment of the premises to which they
have been invited or permitted to enter, even when steps have been taken to
separate “smoking” and “non-smoking” areas within the confined space; and
   (E)   The county recognizes that smoke creates a danger to the health and
safety of the public at large and that, in order to protect the health and
welfare of the public, it is necessary to restrict smoking in the manner
provided for in this article.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-387 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges and cabarets.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including retail
establishments where goods or services are offered for sale; professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural or other professional services are delivered; and private clubs.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages, commission, goods or services in kind or
like compensation, and it shall also mean a person who volunteers his or her
services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the floor
to the ceiling, or walls substantially enclosing the area or walls four feet or
more in height including stationary structures and mobile public conveyances.
Enclosure of an outdoor area attached to a building or structure through the
use of any sort of canopy, tent or other structure which consists of coverings
on all sides shall cause such an area to be deemed an ENCLOSED AREA for
purposes of this article.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of persons having diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other
medical, physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited
to, hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight
control clinics, nursing homes (except as otherwise permitted herein), homes
for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists and all specialists
within these professions. This definition includes all waiting rooms, hallways,
private rooms, semi-private rooms and wards within health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways and
vehicles. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT for purposes of this
article unless it is used as a child care, adult day care or health care
facility. A private passenger motor vehicle is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT when
used in the performance of employment responsibilities; provided, it is not
being used as a public conveyance.
   PRIVATE CLUB.
      (1)   A bona fide non-profit organization, association or non-profit
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, and operated
solely and exclusively for social, benevolent, patriotic, recreational or
fraternal purposes, but not for pecuniary gain or profit, no part of the net
earnings of which inures to the direct benefit of any member or shareholder:
         (a)   Which is licensed to sell liquor by the drink for consumption on
the premises as a private club under applicable regulations and rules of the
state’s Department of Revenue;
         (b)   Which has a retail sales tax license in the same name;
         (c)   Which is not open to the general public;
         (d)   Which is not engaged in the preparation and service of meals to
the general public;
         (e)   Which has a definite, fixed method of electing persons on an
individual basis to membership in the organization, such method being described
in the club’s bylaws and which must bear some reasonable relation to the object
and purpose of the organization;
         (f)   Which is comprised of members 21 years of age or older who shall
be elected or excluded by the board of directors by way of ballot;
         (g)   Which is maintained by its bona fide members through the payment
of monthly, quarterly or annual fees or dues and/or rental fees;
         (h)   Whose affairs and management shall be conducted by a board of
directors, executive committee or similar governing body chosen by the members
at a regular meeting held no less frequently than annually;
         (i)   Whose members have been given notice of the dangers of tobacco
smoke and second- hand smoke exposure in the particulars recited in § 
26-386(B) through (E) of this chapter;
         (j)   Which has no employees under the age of 21 years nor employees
who have not been given a notice of the dangers of tobacco smoke and second-
hand smoke substantially similar to the dangers recited in § 
26-386(B) through (E) of this chapter; and
         (k)   Which has satisfied, complied with and implemented the terms,
conditions, requirements and limitations of the county code and applicable
provisions of the Code of Laws of South Carolina 1976, as amended, and
regulations relating to the sale and consumption of alcoholic liquors by the
drink by a bona fide non-profit private club.
      (2)   Any organization, establishment, club or entity, including bars,
restaurants, entertainment venues or other entities which are not owned,
leased, occupied or operated in compliance with the requirements of the county
code shall not be treated as a PRIVATE CLUB under this article.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or to which the public
is permitted to have access, including but not limited to, banks, bars,
educational facilities, health care facilities and hotel and motel lobbies,
laundromats, public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, theaters, waiting rooms, sports
arena, stadiums and ball parks. A PRIVATE CLUB is a public place when being
used for a function to which the general public is allowed entry. A private
residence is not a public place unless it is used as a child care, adult day
care or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, ice cream parlors and private and public
school cafeterias, which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or
employees, as well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is
prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere. RESTAURANT includes a bar area
within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental. The term specifically includes cigar bars, which are
establishments licensed for the on premises sale of beer, wine and alcoholic
beverages as well as some food service, but the term does not include any
establishment which is primarily a bar or restaurant and which undertakes to
make retail offerings of tobacco products as a means of circumventing the
purposes of this article.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor line in which one or more persons are waiting for or
receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange
of money.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public plaza, promenade, walkway or hall area
that serves to connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or in any form.
SMOKING also includes the use of an electronic smoking device, which means an
electronic or battery-operated device, the use of which resembles smoking, that
can be used to deliver nicotine or other substances to the person inhaling from
the device.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys and other similar
places where members of the general public assembly to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition or witness sports or other
events.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 2019-006, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 26-388 APPLICATION TO COUNTY-OWNED FACILITIES AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   All enclosed facilities, buildings and vehicles owned, leased or
operated by the county shall be subject to the provisions of this article.
   (B)   All facilities and buildings owned, leased or operated by the county
shall have conspicuously displayed upon the premises a sign reading “Smoking
Prohibited by Law”.
   (C)   No person shall use chewing tobacco, snuff or similar-type tobacco
products in any form in a facility, building or vehicle owned, leased or
operated by the county. The prohibitions of this section do not apply to those
facilities and buildings or portions of those facilities and buildings which
are leased to other organizations or entities.
   (D)   All facilities and buildings owned, leased or operated by the county
shall have conspicuously displayed upon the premises a sign reading “Use of
Chewing Tobacco, Snuff and Similar Products Prohibited by Law”.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-389 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the county,
including, but not limited to, the following places:
   (A)   Galleries, libraries and museums;
   (B)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and non-profit entities patronized by the public, including, but not
limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, hotels and motels;
   (C)   Bars;
   (D)   Bingo facilities;
   (E)   Convention facilities, conference centers and exhibition halls;
   (F)   Educational facilities, both public and private;
   (G)   Elevators;
   (H)   Health care facilities;
   (I)   Hotel and motel lobbies;
   (J)   Licensed child care and adult day care facilities;
   (K)   Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
   (L)   Polling places;
   (M)   Clubs, other than a private club as defined in this article; provided,
however, that smoking shall be prohibited in a private club when the general
public is admitted or invited, except as provided in § 26-391(C) of this
chapter;
   (N)   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, and
ticket, boarding and waiting areas of public transit depots;
   (O)   Restaurants;
   (P)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and other common-use
areas;
   (Q)   Retail stores;
   (R)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings;
   (S)   Service lines;
   (T)   Shopping malls;
   (U)   Sports arenas; and
   (V)   Theaters, performance halls, lecture halls and similar facilities,
inclusive of lobbies, audience seating areas, dressing rooms, projection
booths, back stage areas and the stage, but excluding smoking on stage when it
is an integral part of a theatrical performance.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-390 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment, except a private club as defined in this article, without
exception, including, but not limited to, work areas, auditoriums, classrooms,
conferences and meeting rooms, private offices, elevators, hallways, medical
facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms and vehicles used
for the conveyance of the public.
   (B)   The prohibition on smoking contained in subsection (A) above shall be
communicated by employers to all existing employees by 3-1-2013, and to all
prospective employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-391 WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§ 26-389 and 26-390 of
this chapter:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed child care, adult
day care or health care facility;
   (B)   Retail tobacco stores; provided that, smoke from these places does not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
article;
   (C)   Private clubs, as defined in this article, except when being used for
a function to which the general public is admitted. If the public is invited,
subsection (D) below shall control;
   (D)   Outdoor areas of places of employment, including decks, balconies and
patios of restaurants and bars; provided that, any smoking area is a minimum of
15 feet from any building opening or air handler and smoke from these places
does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions
of this article. Where smoking is allowed outdoors, receptacles must be
provided for the safe and proper disposal of cigarettes and related smoking
material.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-392 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, an owner,
operator, manager or other person in control of an establishment, facility or
outdoor area may declare that entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as
a non-smoking place.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in any place, except a private club as
defined in this article in which a sign conforming to the requirements of § 26-
393 of this chapter is posted.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-393 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this article by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of that
place.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this article shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this article by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of the area.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-394 NON-RETALIATION; NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer
because that employee, applicant or customer exercises any rights afforded by
this article or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this article.
   (B)   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-395 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This article shall be enforced by the office of the Sheriff or an
authorized designee.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this article shall be given to all
applicants for a building permit; certificate of occupancy; or building,
zoning, fire or other permit or license required in the county.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this article may
initiate enforcement with the office of the sheriff.
   (D)   The Building Codes Division, County Fire Marshal Fire Department, or
their designee shall, while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated
inspections, inspect for compliance with this article.
   (E)   An owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated
by this article shall inform persons violating this article of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, an employee or
member of the public may bring legal action against a person, business or
organization in violation of this article to enforce this article.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-396 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   (A)   The County Health and Wellness Commission shall engage in a continuing
program to explain and clarify the purposes and requirements of this article to
citizens affected by it, and to guide owners, operators and managers in their
compliance with it.
   (B)   The program may include publication of a brochure for affected
businesses and individuals explaining the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-397 GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION.
   The county shall annually request other governmental and educational
agencies having facilities within the unincorporated area of the county to
establish local operating procedures in cooperation and compliance with this
article. This includes urging all federal, state, county, city and school
district agencies to update their existing smoking control regulations to be
consistent with the current health findings regarding secondhand smoke.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-398 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This article shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-399 INTERPRETATION FOR INTENT.
   It is the intent of Council to prohibit smoking whenever the private choice
of smoking intrudes or has the capacity to intrude upon the right of persons
concerned about protecting their own rights to be free from the hazards and
inconvenience of secondhand smoke in places where they work, stand, sit, walk,
dine, drink, read, study or engage in entertainment and recreation. All
provisions shall be construed to achieve these purposes.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 26-400 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this article is guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of
not less than $10, nor more than $25.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or agent who owns, manages, operates or
otherwise controls a public place or place of employment and who fails to
comply with the provisions of this article is guilty of an infraction,
punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $50 for a first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $100 for any subsequent violation within one
year.
   (C)   No arrest warrant may be issued for a person who smokes in an area
where smoking is prohibited by this article or for a person, firm, corporation
or agent who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public place or
place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of this
article. In enforcing this article, law enforcement officers shall issue an
ordinance summons as provided for in § 2-1 of the County Code and S.C. Code
§ 56-7-80, as amended. The service of the ordinance summons will vest the
magistrate’s court with jurisdiction to hear and to dispose of the charge.
   (D)   In addition to the fines established by this section, repeated
violations of this article by a person, firm, corporation or agent who owns,
manages, operates or otherwise controls a public place or place of employment
may result in the suspension or revocation of any occupancy permit or other
permit or license issued to the person for the premises on which the violation
occurred.
   (E)   Violation of this article is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the county by restraining order, preliminary and
permanent injunction or other means provided for by law, and the county may
take action to recover the costs of the nuisance abatement.
   (F)   Each day of a continuing violation of this article shall be considered
a separate and distinct infraction.
(Ord. 152, passed 3-18-2013)
CHAPTER 27: RESERVED
CHAPTER 28: PARKS AND RECREATION
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   PROHIBITED CONDUCT IN PUBLIC PARKS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   28-1—28-18   Reserved
§§ 28-1—28-18 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: PROHIBITED CONDUCT IN PUBLIC PARKS
Section
   
28-19   “Public park” defined
   
28-20   Injuring or destroying shrubs, flowers and the like prohibited where
“keep off” sign posted
   
28-21   Injuring, defacing and the like buildings, grandstands and the like
   
28-22   Leaving, dumping and the like trash, paper and the like
   
28-23   Erecting, posting and the like bills, posters and advertising
   
28-24   Selling
   
28-25   Carrying, drinking and the like intoxicating liquors; using profanity;
committing nuisance; disorderly conduct
   
28-26   Motor vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Municipal parks, see S.C. Code §§ 51-15-20 et seq.
§ 28-19 “PUBLIC PARK” DEFINED.
   The term PUBLIC PARK refers to town owned or maintained parks, whether
located wholly within, wholly without or partly within and partly without the
corporate limits of the town.
§ 28-20 INJURING OR DESTROYING SHRUBS, FLOWERS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED WHERE
“KEEP OFF” SIGN POSTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, pluck, walk, step on or in any
way injure or destroy, any shrub, flowers or bush, or to dig, uproot, tear up,
or injure any sod or grass in any public park, or to walk, drive, sit or stand
upon any space or area in such public park where a “keep off” sign has been
posted.
§ 28-21 INJURING, DEFACING AND THE LIKE BUILDINGS, GRANDSTANDS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write on, carve, cut, deface, injure
or break any part of any building, grandstand or other structure, or any chair,
seat and the like in any public park.
§ 28-22 LEAVING, DUMPING AND THE LIKE TRASH, PAPER AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, leave or permit to be
deposited or left in any public park any trash, paper, box, can, bottle, food
fragments or other unsightly substance, except in receptacles provided
especially for that purpose, or to dump or throw any trash, stones, bottles,
food fragments or refuse of any kind in any lake, stream, swimming pools or
fountains in any such park.
§ 28-23 ERECTING, POSTING AND THE LIKE BILLS, POSTERS AND ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any bill posters or to post,
tack up or otherwise display any bills or advertising signs or to distribute
handbills in any public park.
§ 28-24 SELLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except such as may have a permit or
concession from the Council, to sell or offer for sale within any public park
any cold drinks, fruits, eatables, cigars, tobacco or other merchandise.
§ 28-25 CARRYING, DRINKING AND THE LIKE INTOXICATING LIQUORS; USING PROFANITY;
COMMITTING NUISANCE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry into any public park any
intoxicating liquors, to drink the same therein, or to be therein under the
influence of intoxicants, or to use any profane, vulgar or indecent language,
or to commit any nuisance, or to engage in any unseemly, obnoxious or
disorderly conduct, or to engage in any game of chance, or in betting or
wagering in any such park.
§ 28-26 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be driven in any public park
at a greater rate of speed than fixed by traffic signs erected therein, nor
shall any such vehicle be parked in any of the driveways without being drawn
well to the right, so as not to impede, obstruct or interfere with the free
passage on such driveway of other vehicles and traffic. At night, both moving
and parked motor vehicles shall be provided with adequate lights, front and
rear.
CHAPTER 29: RESERVED
CHAPTER 30: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND
OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   PROHIBITED CONDUCT
         
III.   EXCAVATIONS
         
IV.   LITTERING
         
V.   STREET LIGHTING
         
VI.   PARADES, PICKETS, MARCHES OR
DEMONSTRATIONS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
30-1   Control over maintenance and construction of streets
   
30-2   Duty of adjoining property owners to keep sidewalks clear
   
30-3   Parking on sidewalks prohibited; exceptions
   
30-4   Naming or renaming streets prohibited without approval
   
30-5   Procedure for maintenance of new streets
   
30-6   Permanent survey markers required for new streets
   
30-7   Garage sales by non-residents prohibited; exception
   30-8—30-32   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact ordinances in relation to roads, streets and markets, see
S.C. Code §§ 5-7-30 et seq.
   Municipal streets and sidewalks, see S.C. Code §§ 5-27-10 et seq.
§ 30-1 CONTROL OVER MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council shall approve the construction and maintenance
of streets, employing such number of persons to work on the streets as may be
needed.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to streets under the supervision and
control of the state’s Department of Transportation (SCDOT) or the county.
§ 30-2 DUTY OF ADJOINING PROPERTY OWNERS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS CLEAR.
   It shall be the duty of all owners of real estate within the corporate
limits to keep the sidewalks adjoining their real estate clear and free from
grass, weeds, trash and garbage. Sidewalks shall be cleared and the grass and
weeds cut and removed.
§ 30-3 PARKING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicles shall be parked on any sidewalk.
   (B)   Exceptions may be made when it is necessary to avoid traffic or when
directed by a police officer or traffic-control device.
Statutory reference:
   Parking prohibited on sidewalks, see S.C. Code § 56-5-2530
§ 30-4 NAMING OR RENAMING STREETS PROHIBITED WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall name any currently unnamed street or change the
name of any existing street, except by authority of the Mayor and Council.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay out any new street
within the town without first procuring from the Council approval of the names
to be assigned to such new street.
   (B)   (1)   Before a street within the municipal limits of the town may be
renamed, the town shall review the proposed change and make a determination as
to whether the existing name is related to a historic person or event in order
to determine whether such name change is allowed pursuant to S.C. Code § 10-1-
165.
      (2)   This subsection (B) directs the County Zoning and Planning
Commission to inform the town regarding any street name changes under
consideration, and the Town Council shall have the final determination as to
whether the existing name may be changed pursuant to S.C. Code § 10-1-165.
(Ord. 173, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 30-5 PROCEDURE FOR MAINTENANCE OF NEW STREETS.
   (A)   When any application is made to the Council to assume the maintenance
of any proposed new street, the following requirements shall be complied with:
      (1)   The right-of-way shall be furnished with a minimum width of 60
feet; and
      (2)   Plans and profiles for the proposed street shall be submitted to
the Council for review and approval.
   (B)   When plans and profiles are approved by the Council, the applicant
shall cause the street to be constructed to line and grade, the necessary
drainage structures installed and adequate inlet and outlet ditches constructed
in a manner approved by the Council. The approved construction plans shall be
submitted to the Council at the time the request to accept the street for
maintenance is made.
§ 30-6 PERMANENT SURVEY MARKERS REQUIRED FOR NEW STREETS.
   In order to avoid disputes which may arise concerning the boundaries of the
streets of the town, any person conveying or dedicating any street to the town
shall be required, either before or at the time of such dedication, to conduct
a survey of said street by a registered land surveyor. A permanent survey
marker shall be erected on each corner of said street at the point where it
intersects with any other street.
§ 30-7 GARAGE SALES BY NON-RESIDENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   All non-resident garage sales and yard sales in the town shall comply with
the following regulations.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not a resident of the town, to have a yard
sale within the town limits, unless a property owner gives his or her
permission, but then only on that person’s property.
§§ 30-8—30-32 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: PROHIBITED CONDUCT
Section
   
30-33   Obstructing or blocking walks, streets and the like; removal;
exceptions
   
30-34   Use of barricades, ropes and lighting required
   
30-35   Throwing or placing dangerous substances
   
30-36   Displaying merchandise without approval
   
30-37   Throwing garbage, trash or other offensive matter
   
30-38   Failing to remove tree waste
   
30-39   Depositing, dumping and the like of trash, garbage or refuse
   
30-40   Damaging, mutilating or defacing public property
   
30-41   Burning
   
30-42   Painting, printing or defacing; exception
   
30-43   Breaking or destroying curbing; constructing entrances without
permission
   
30-44   Draining water and other liquids; sprinkling excepted
   
30-45   Authority to require property owner to direct drainage under sidewalks
   
30-46   Obstructing drains, ditches or watercourses
   
30-47   Maintaining door and gate openings onto sidewalks or streets
   
30-48   Speaking, exhibiting or entertaining without permission
   
30-49   Permitting awnings to hang over sidewalks below required height
   
30-50   Failing to maintain fences adjacent to streets or alleys
   
30-51   Playing sports or games in undesignated areas
   
30-52   Bicycling, roller skating and the like in B-1 and B-3 Districts;
exceptions
   
30-53   Obstructing vision at intersections; exception
   
30-54   Removal of obstruction or unsafe condition at intersection; required
subsequent to notice
   
30-55   Same; abatement; lien
   
30-56   Placing vending machines in B-1 and B-3 Districts; exception
   30-57—30-85   Reserved
§ 30-33 OBSTRUCTING OR BLOCKING WALKS, STREETS AND THE LIKE; REMOVAL;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To interfere with, blockade or obstruct any pavements, walks,
streets or paths in the town by placing or allowing to remain thereon any
obstruction whatsoever in any manner as to create a hazard;
      (2)   To place any obstruction upon or cause to be obstructed in any
manner any street, sidewalk or public way or part thereof, so as to render the
passage of persons, vehicles or other travel thereon difficult, inconvenient,
dangerous or impossible; and
      (3)   To obstruct or blockade any street, highway, public road or
traveled place, or any part thereof, by placing or allowing to remain thereon
any vehicle not in actual or immediate use, or any other article. This shall
include building materials or any other obstruction whatsoever; provided that,
nothing contained in this section shall deprive any person who may be in the
process of construction, of the use of a number of feet, not exceeding 20 feet.
   (B)   Temporary use permitted. Any person building houses or other
structures within the town may obtain from the Town Clerk permission for a
partial and temporary use of the streets for building purposes.
   (C)   No permission for permanent obstruction. No permission shall be
granted for the placing of a permanent obstruction on any street, highway or
other public place.
   (D)   Removal by town police officer. Any obstruction placed on any street,
sidewalk or highway in violation of this section may be removed by town police
officers or under their supervision.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any employee of the town,
county, state or public utility while such employee is immediately and actively
engaged in the maintenance, improvement or construction a of street, sidewalk,
public way or utilities.
§ 30-34 USE OF BARRICADES, ROPES AND LIGHTING REQUIRED.
   While the obstructions provided for in this article remain on any street,
sidewalk, highway or other public place, suitable safeguards by day and by
night shall be maintained by the contractor, owner or person in charge of the
work, for the protection of the public, by roping off, using lanterns and other
proper means.
§ 30-35 THROWING OR PLACING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place on any street or
sidewalk any glass in any shape or form, tin cans, nails, brick, pieces of
iron, sticks or any other substance likely to injure any person, animal or
vehicle thereon.
Statutory reference:
   Foreign substances on highways, see S.C. Code § 57-7-20
§ 30-36 DISPLAYING MERCHANDISE WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any merchant to display merchandise on the streets
or sidewalks subject to approval by the Mayor and Council, it being the intent
of the Mayor and Council that the flow of traffic shall be unhindered by any
display of merchandise.
§ 30-37 THROWING GARBAGE, TRASH OR OTHER OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or cause to be thrown any
garbage, other solid waste, trash or other offensive matter onto any sidewalk,
street, lot or public place.
§ 30-38 FAILING TO REMOVE TREE WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person trimming trees, on or over any street or
sidewalk, to fail to remove promptly any branches, limbs or other waste caused
by such cutting, trimming or digging.
§ 30-39. DEPOSITING, DUMPING AND THE LIKE OF TRASH, GARBAGE OR REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, discard, dump, sweep
or place any trash, garbage or refuse matter of any kind onto streets or
sidewalks, unless the trash, garbage or refuse matter is placed onto the
streets or sidewalk for town pickup.
   (B)   This section shall apply to the obstruction of any storm drain or
ditch.
§ 30-40 DAMAGING, MUTILATING OR DEFACING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, mutilate or deface any
public property within the corporate limits.
   (B)   This section shall prohibit the erection of anything on public
property, without permission of the Mayor and Council.
§ 30-41 BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any trash, garbage, leaves or
refuse matter on the streets and sidewalks.
§ 30-42 PAINTING, PRINTING OR DEFACING; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall print, paint or in any other way deface the sidewalks,
streets or other public property of the town for advertising or other purposes;
provided, however, that, nothing contained in this section shall be construed
to prohibit the state department of transportation (SCDOT), the Police
Department or any other department of the town from marking the sidewalks or
streets for the purpose of controlling traffic or for any other town purpose.
§ 30-43 BREAKING OR DESTROYING CURBING; CONSTRUCTING ENTRANCES WITHOUT
PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or destroy the curbing of any
street, deface the same or to construct any entrance into property on any paved
streets, unless such person shall have first obtained permission therefor.
§ 30-44 DRAINING WATER AND OTHER LIQUIDS; SPRINKLING EXCEPTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be deposited
any slops, or decayed matter of any kind, from any store or residence or other
building so that the same shall fall or flow upon any part of any street or
sidewalk. This section shall include dishwater or foul water from a pit, sink,
pipe, gutter or drain leading to a public street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct, erect or
maintain a house or building of any description in such a manner that rainwater
may flow from the roof, eaves, cornices, gutters or other part thereof, down
any sidewalk or street so as to cause holes, depressions, unevenness, gullies
or other defect or damage to such sidewalk or street.
   (C)   Sprinkling of a street to lay dust is not hereby forbidden.
§ 30-45 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE PROPERTY OWNER TO DIRECT DRAINAGE UNDER SIDEWALKS.
   When required by the Mayor and Council, every person owning any lot which
drains toward a sidewalk, shall provide such suitable and proper drainage under
such sidewalk as will deliver the gutter and drainage water from such lot to
the drainage system of the adjoining streets.
§ 30-46 OBSTRUCTING DRAINS, DITCHES OR WATERCOURSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, or cause to be obstructed,
any drains, ditches or watercourses within the corporate limits. Every person
owning, controlling or in possession of land, through which or through part of
which a stream, ditch, gully or any natural drain runs, shall keep the bed of
same free from obstructions. They shall not allow any growth of weeds or
shrubbery on or along the banks thereof which will prevent sunlight from
entering therein. When overflows or floods form pools or backwaters therein,
they shall be promptly drained.
§ 30-47 MAINTAINING DOOR AND GATE OPENINGS ONTO SIDEWALKS OR STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any door or gate upon his
premises so as to swing across or into any sidewalk or street.
§ 30-48 SPEAKING, EXHIBITING OR ENTERTAINING WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No preaching, lecturing or speaking, exhibition or entertainment of any
nature will be permitted on the streets, sidewalks or public ways of the town,
unless the Town Administrator has been informed.
§ 30-49 PERMITTING AWNINGS TO HANG OVER SIDEWALKS BELOW REQUIRED HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow awnings to hang nearer to the
surface of the sidewalk than seven feet.
§ 30-50 FAILING TO MAINTAIN FENCES ADJACENT TO STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of lands, or lots of lands, within the
corporate limits, to fail to keep in good repair the fences on same, which are
adjacent to any street or alley. All dilapidated fences adjacent to streets or
alleys are hereby declared a nuisance and may be removed by the town.
§ 30-51 PLAYING SPORTS OR GAMES IN UNDESIGNATED AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play football, baseball, basketball
or other game in and upon any street, park or other public place in the town,
except in the places provided therefor.
§ 30-52 BICYCLING, ROLLER SKATING AND THE LIKE IN B-1 AND B-3 DISTRICTS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride a bicycle, tricycle, coaster,
skateboard, roller skates, scooter or any other wheeled conveyance on a
sidewalk in any area of the town zoned as a (B-3) General Commercial District
or (B-1) Central Business District, except for the purpose of crossing the same
when necessary; provided, however, that, this section shall not apply to
wheelchairs or other similar devices used by handicapped persons.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 30-53 OBSTRUCTING VISION AT INTERSECTIONS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   On corner lots, there shall be no obstruction to vision between a
height of two feet and a height of ten feet measured above the average
elevation of the existing surfaces of the intersecting streets at their
centerlines, within the area formed by joining points on the property lines,
measured as follows:
      (1)   On property lines abutting streets 50 feet or less in right-of-way
width, the points on the property lines shall be not less than 25 feet from the
lot corner; and
      (2)   On property lines abutting streets more than 50 feet in right-of-
way width, the points on the property lines shall be 50 feet from the lot
corner.
   (B)   This restriction shall not apply to buildings in business districts.
§ 30-54 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION OR UNSAFE CONDITION AT INTERSECTION; REQUIRED
SUBSEQUENT TO NOTICE.
   Whenever it shall be determined by the Mayor and Council that there exists
on any privately owned property, located at any street intersection, any tree,
bush, shrubbery, plant, fence or other obstruction which obstructs the view of
pedestrians or vehicular traffic, interferes with the safe and orderly movement
of traffic or creates a dangerous condition, the owner or occupant of such
property shall, within ten days after official written notice, remove such
obstruction.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate the upkeep of property within the municipality, see
S.C. Code § 5-7-80
§ 30-55 SAME; ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   If any such property owner shall fail or refuse to remove any such
obstruction, after written notice to do so, as provided in § 30-54 of this
chapter, the costs of such removal shall be charged to the property owner.
   (B)   It shall be a lien on such property and shall be added to and payable
with the taxes on such property.
§ 30-56 PLACING VENDING MACHINES IN B-1 AND B-3 DISTRICTS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any commercial vending
machine, except newspaper boxes on any public sidewalk or any other public
walkway or right-of-way within the town areas zoned (B-3) General Commercial
District or (B-1) Central Business District.
   (B)   This section shall apply to any such machine in place on the date of
the passage of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
§§ 30-57—30-85 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
30-86   Permit and bond required; emergency excepted
   
30-87   Timeframe for restoring area to SCDOT standards
   
30-88   Person doing work responsible for repairs for one-year period
   
30-89   Warning signals and lighting; required
   
30-90   Same; unlawful removal
   30-91—30-108   Reserved
§ 30-86 PERMIT AND BOND REQUIRED; EMERGENCY EXCEPTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut or excavate a street or
sidewalk in the corporate limits without having first obtained permission
therefor from the town or the state’s Department of Transportation (SCDOT),
except in a bona fide emergency situation.
   (B)   Before permission shall be granted for the opening or cutting of any
street or sidewalk in the town, the person making an application may be
required to deposit with the town, a cash bond in a sum as may be estimated by
the Mayor and Council to ensure the maintenance of lights and barricades during
the period of construction work, the refilling of the opening and the replacing
thereof.
§ 30-87 TIMEFRAME FOR RESTORING AREA TO SCDOT STANDARDS.
   Any such cut or excavation shall be restored according to the standards of
the SCDOT within a period of 24 hours. Upon request, special consideration may
be granted by the town or SCDOT due to extreme weather conditions.
§ 30-88 PERSON DOING WORK RESPONSIBLE FOR REPAIRS FOR ONE-YEAR PERIOD.
   In the event that said repair should sink or give away within one year, it
promptly shall be repaired by the person making the original cut or excavation
within 72 hours of being notified by the town or SCDOT.
§ 30-89 WARNING SIGNALS AND LIGHTING; REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any trench, ditch or
excavation in any street, sidewalk or public place to remain open without a
sufficient number of lights or other safety devices properly displayed around
same as danger signals to prevent accidents to persons or property.
   (B)   Adequate lights shall be displayed at night.
§ 30-90 SAME; UNLAWFUL REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or extinguish any warning
device or light which may be placed as a signal during daylight hours, or at
night, to warn persons of danger from ditches, trenches, building materials,
scaffolds, excavations, impediments or obstacles of any description whatsoever.
§§ 30-91—30-108 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: LITTERING
Section
   
30-109   Prohibited
   
30-110   Duty of business owner/occupant to keep premises clean
   
30-111   Duty of customer to use receptacles
   30-112—30-135   Reserved
§ 30-109 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast or deposit upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or any yard or premises, public or private, any filth
of any kind of cans, paper, trash, paper containers, rubbish, bottles or any
other form of litter or waste matter.
§ 30-110 DUTY OF BUSINESS OWNER/OCCUPANT TO KEEP PREMISES CLEAN.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any store or other place of business situated
within the town shall exercise reasonable diligence at all times to keep his or
her premises clear of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons,
package containers and other used or waste material thrown or left on said
premises by his or her customers, and to take reasonable measures to prevent
same from drifting or blowing to adjoining premises.
   (B)   Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be placed on the
premises accessible to the customers of such business where the articles of
waste referred to in subsection (A) above may be disposed of.
   (C)   Each and every business establishment shall place upon its premises in
a conspicuous place in close proximity to the receptacle referred to in
subsection (B) above, a sign which shall, in essence, convey to its customers a
request that they use such receptacles for the disposal of waste material.
§ 30-111 DUTY OF CUSTOMER TO USE RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any customer going upon the premises of another to,
in any manner, dispose of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons,
package containers and other used or waste materials, except in receptacles
provided for such purposes.
§§ 30-1120—30-135 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: STREET LIGHTING
Section
   
30-136   Duke Power service area
   
30-137   Lynches River service area
   
30-138   Tampering with lamps, bulbs and the like prohibited
   30-139—30-159   Reserved
§ 30-136 DUKE POWER SERVICE AREA.
   Duke Power is hereby permitted to provide street lighting for the town which
is authorized and paid for by the town, within the corporate limits.
§ 30-137 LYNCHES RIVER SERVICE AREA.
   Lynches River Electric Cooperative is hereby permitted to provide street
lighting for the town which is authorized and paid for by the town, within the
corporate limits and the Lynches River service area.
§ 30-138 TAMPERING WITH LAMPS, BULBS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break any lamp or electric light or
to remove any electric light bulb or otherwise tamper with streetlights.
§§ 30-139—30-159 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: PARADES, PICKETS, MARCHES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
30-160   Definitions
   
30-161   Authority to place restrictions and safeguards
   30-162—30-190   Reserved
Division 2. Permits
   
30-191   Required; application; fee; to be carried on person
   
30-192   Application contents
   
30-193   Standards for issuance
   
30-194   Cleanup and repair required; bonds
   
30-195   Notice of denial
   
30-196   Appeal
   
30-197   Alternate permit
   
30-198   Revocation
   30-199—30-219   Reserved
Division 3. Prohibited Conduct
   
30-220   Violations of article; exceptions
   
30-221   Refusing to disperse when directed by police
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 30-160 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   PARADE, PICKET, MARCH or DEMONSTRATION.
      (1)   A procession of pedestrians, vehicles and animals or any
combination thereof along or upon a street, road or highway.
      (2)   The PARADE, PICKET, MARCH or DEMONSTRATION does not mean: a funeral
procession or a procession of pedestrians along or upon public sidewalks or
private property.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit issued under the provisions of this article.
   PARADE PERMITTEE. The parade organizer or other person who signed the
application for the parade permit which was issued under the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 166, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 30-161 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   The Mayor and Council shall have the authority to impose such restrictions,
conditions and safeguards upon the conduct of a parade, procession or public
gathering as it shall deem fit or proper.
§§ 30-162—30-190 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PERMITS
§ 30-191 REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; TO BE CARRIED ON PERSON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to parade, picket or march unless a permit has
been secured from the town.
   (B)   Those desiring same shall make an application, duly signed by the
individual organizer or by an officer of the organization, and submit it unto
the Town Clerk, for subsequent approval by the Town Administrator, not less
than 48 hours prior to the time of such parade.
   (C)   A fee shall be remitted to the Town Clerk at the time of filing the
application for a parade permit. The permit fee shall be in an amount as
established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the schedule
of fees and charges, available for public examination in the Town Clerk’s
office.
   (D)   The parade organizer or other person of the organization who signed
the application for the parade permit shall carry such permit upon his or her
person during the conduct of the parade, picket, march or demonstration.
§ 30-192 APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
   (B)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by an
organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and the authorized and responsible heads of such organization;
   (C)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
   (D)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
   (E)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
   (F)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles which
will constitute such parade, the type of animals and descriptions of the
vehicles;
   (G)   The hours when such parade will start and terminate;
   (H)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion
of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
   (I)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade;
   (J)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at such
assembly area;
   (K)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of such parade;
   (L)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of, or for, any
person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file with
the Town Clerk a communication in writing from the person proposing to hold the
parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or her behalf;
and
   (M)   Any additional information which the Town Administrator may find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
§ 30-193 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Town Administrator shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of
the application and from such other information as may otherwise be obtained,
he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
town;
   (C)   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of
the town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route; and
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, good or commercial venture, and is not designed to be held purely for
private profit.
§ 30-194 CLEANUP AND REPAIR REQUIRED; BONDS.
   (A)   The permittee shall be responsible for the cleanup of the streets and
other used town property and equipment within 24 hours after the event. The
Town Administrator or designee will then carefully inspect the used streets,
property and equipment. If, in the opinion of the Town Administrator or
designee, the streets or other areas or equipment have not been properly
cleaned or if there has been any damage to town streets or property, the Town
Administrator or designee will cause the organization or persons during whose
use the damage occurred to be billed the necessary cost of cleaning or
repairing town property. The person who makes the application for the parade
permit on behalf of an organization may be held liable as principal in place of
the organization. The penalty for damages to town property will be assessed at
twice the costs of repairs. Such costs shall be determined by the town staff.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall have the authority to require that the
permit applicant pay a cleaning and repair bond before issuance of a permit.
The amount of the bond shall be determined by the Town Administrator and set at
an amount sufficient to cover the cost of cleaning or repairing town property
damaged as a result of the parade, picket, march or demonstration.
   (C)   The Town Administrator shall have the authority to require that the
permit applicant pay a public safety bond before issuance of a permit. The
amount of the bond shall be determined by the Town Administrator and set at an
amount sufficient to cover the cost of diverting to the parade, picket, march,
or demonstration additional law enforcement, fire protection or other emergency
services necessary for safe and orderly progression of the parade, picket,
march or demonstration.
§ 30-195 NOTICE OF DENIAL.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall act upon the application for a parade
permit within three days after the filing thereof.
   (B)   If the Town Administrator disapproves the application, he or she shall
notify the applicant of such disapproval.
§ 30-196 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the Mayor and Council. An appeal shall be taken within ten days after
receipt of the notice of denial. The Mayor and Council shall approve or deny
the appeal within ten days after its receipt.
§ 30-197 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Administrator in denying an application for a parade permit
shall be required to tender a permit for a parade on a date, at a time, or over
a route different from that named by the applicant.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within five
days after notice of the action of the Town Administrator, file a written
notice of acceptance with the Town Administrator.
   (C)   An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of a parade permit under this article.
§ 30-198 REVOCATION.
   The Town Administrator or Mayor and Council shall have the authority to
revoke a parade permit issued under this article upon the application of the
standards of issuance as set forth in this division.
§§ 30-199—30-219 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 30-220 VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   When picketing or engaging in demonstrations, no person shall:
      (1)   Use on the streets or public places any verbal abuse, including
curses, insults or threats, or acts of violence, directed against any person;
      (2)   March, parade, protest or picket in any manner other than as
permitted by this article, except with the express written consent and approval
of the mayor and council;
      (3)   Engage in riotous and loud conduct which invades the privacy of
homes or businesses;
      (4)   Damage, destroy or injure the person or property of others;
      (5)   Block, in any manner, the streets and means of ingress and egress
to places of business;
      (6)   Interfere with, in any manner, or obstruct any official in the
performance of his duties;
      (7)   Interfere in any matter with the attendance, during school hours,
of children in the public schools, by inciting or urging them to participate in
demonstrations or for any other unlawful purpose or reason, or permitting them
to be or remain in churches or other places used in such demonstrations;
      (8)   Picket other than in accordance with the following principles:
         (a)   In small numbers;
         (b)   In a manner so as not to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular
traffic;
         (c)   In a manner so as not to block entrances or exits to or from
picketed establishments;
         (d)   No more than four pickets posted at any one time at any one
business establishment;
         (e)   No more than two business establishments picketed in the same
block at the same time;
         (f)   No trespassing upon the property of the business establishment
being picketed;
         (g)   Patrols shall be on the sidewalk at a distance of not less than
eight feet from every other picket; and
         (h)   No person, whether in sympathy with the pickets or not, shall
assemble, loiter, congregate or engage in any kind of picketing of the
establishment being picketed, except those picketing in their official
capacity.
      (9)   Demonstrate, other than in accordance with the following
principles:
         (a)   Walking not more than two abreast upon the public sidewalks or
in groups of not more than 30 persons;
         (b)   Observe all traffic-control devices;
         (c)   Walking close to the building line or curbline so as not to
interfere with or obstruct other pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk;
         (d)   Assemble peacefully and speak peacefully for a period of time
not exceeding 30 minutes, and conduct the demonstration:
            1.   When traffic to and from the places of business or employment
is not at its peak;
            2.   In such circumstances as will not unduly disrupt the public
peace; and
            3.   In such a manner as not to deprive the public of adequate
police and fire protection.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to funeral processions, the United States
armed forces, the military forces of this state or the Police and Fire
Departments of the town.
§ 30-221 REFUSING TO DISPERSE WHEN DIRECTED BY POLICE.
   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall be
obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing such crowd shall disperse or move
on when directed to do so by a law enforcement officer. It shall be unlawful
for any person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by a law
enforcement officer.
CHAPTER 31: RESERVED
CHAPTER 32: TAXATION
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   MOBILE HOME TAXES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
32-1   County authorized to collect taxes
   
32-2   County Auditor to set value basis
   
32-3   Non-payment penalty; additional fees for cost of execution
   
32-4   Extension for filing returns and paying property taxes for United States
armed forces or National Guard personnel in or near hazardous duty zone
   32-5—32-26   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority for municipality to contract with the county for collection of
municipal taxes, see S.C. Code § 5-7-300
   Authority to levy and collect taxes on real and personal property, see S.C.
Code § 5-7-30
   Property subject to municipal taxes, see S.C. Code § 5-21-110
§ 32-1 COUNTY AUTHORIZED TO COLLECT TAXES.
   Pursuant to state law, the authority to collect municipal taxes, including
those delinquent and those which may be put to auction for non-payment, is
hereby vested in the appropriate officials of the county whose responsibilities
include the collection of taxes.
§ 32-2 COUNTY AUDITOR TO SET VALUE BASIS.
   The basis of value for taxation of real estate, personal property, except
taxes for motor vehicles, or other taxable property shall be such assessment as
levied by the County Auditor.
§ 32-3 NON-PAYMENT PENALTY; ADDITIONAL FEES FOR COST OF EXECUTION.
   Pursuant to state law, a penalty is hereby imposed for nonpayment of taxes
payable when the taxes become delinquent. Said penalty shall not exceed 15% of
the taxes levied; provided, however, the cost of execution shall be added to
the penalty.
Statutory reference:
   Collection of delinquent ad valorem property taxes, see S.C. Code § 5-7-300
§ 32-4 EXTENSION FOR FILING RETURNS AND PAYING PROPERTY TAXES FOR UNITED STATES
ARMED FORCES OR NATIONAL GUARD PERSONNEL IN OR NEAR HAZARDOUS DUTY ZONE.
   The Town Administrator shall communicate to the County Auditor that any
service person or spouse that qualifies for an extension for the payment of
personal property and real estate taxes under the county guidelines shall
qualify for the same extension in the payment and collection of the town’s
personal property and real estate taxes and that any penalties and interest due
as a result of said extension shall be waived.
(Ord. 107, passed 5-3-2004)
§§ 32-5—32-26 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: MOBILE HOME TAXES
Section
   
32-27   Levied; taxable classification
§ 32-27 LEVIED; TAXABLE CLASSIFICATION.
   At such time as taxes may be levied by the Mayor and Council:
   (A)   Mobile homes shall be considered real property and shall be classified
and assessed for ad valorem taxation;
   (B)   To avoid said classification, the owner of any mobile home shall give
written notice to the County Auditor that the mobile home is without a
permanent foundation; and
   (C)   The County Auditor shall determine the taxable classification of the
mobile home.
Statutory reference:
   Mobile homes to be considered real property, see S.C. Code § 12-43-230
CHAPTER 33: RESERVED
CHAPTER 34: TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   MOVING TRAFFIC
         
III.   PARKING, STANDING, STOPPING
         
IV.   FUNERALS
         
V.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
VI.   BICYCLES
         
VII.   PEDESTRIANS
         
VIII.   RAILROADS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
34-1   Short title
   
34-2   State code adopted
   
34-3   Authority of officer in charge
   
34-4   Placement and specifications of traffic-control devices; altering,
defacing and the like of signs or street names prohibited
   
34-5   Authority to set speed limits; SCDOT approval required for state
highways
   
34-6   Valid driver’s license and vehicle tag required; exceptions
   
34-7   Responsibility of vehicle owner
   
34-8   Fixing traffic ticket or summons prohibited
   34-9—34-36   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Municipalities may adopt additional traffic regulations, see S.C. Code § 56-
5-30
   Powers of local authorities, see S.C. Code § 56-5-710
§ 34-1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Traffic Ordinance”.
§ 34-2 STATE CODE ADOPTED.
   For purposes of this chapter and local enforcement, applicable provisions of
S.C. Code §§ 56-5-10 et seq. are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
as if fully set forth in this chapter, including the definitions set forth
therein.
§ 34-3 AUTHORITY OF OFFICER IN CHARGE.
   Pursuant to state law, the officer in charge, with the approval of the Mayor
and Council, is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Regulate the operation and parking of vehicles within the corporate
limits by the erection or placing of proper signs or markers indicating
prohibited or limited parking, restricted speed areas, one-way streets, play
streets, through or arterial streets, U-turns, school zones and other official
traffic- control devices indicating the place or manner of operating or parking
vehicles, including loading zones;
   (B)   Regulate the movement of pedestrians upon the streets and sidewalks by
the erection or placement of proper signs or markers indicating the flow of
pedestrian traffic;
   (C)   Mark off traffic lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and
directing the flow of traffic;
   (D)   Secure all necessary signs, markers or official traffic-control
devices to be erected or placed on any street or part of a street; and
   (E)   The existence of such signs, markers or official traffic-control
devices at any place shall be prima facie evidence that such signs, markers or
official traffic-control devices were erected or placed by and at the direction
of the Mayor and Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority for local traffic-control devices, see S.C. Code § 56-5-940
   Powers conferred upon municipalities, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 34-4 PLACEMENT AND SPECIFICATIONS OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; ALTERING,
DEFACING AND THE LIKE OF SIGNS OR STREET NAMES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council may, from time to time, request the state’s
Department of Transportation (SCDOT) to place and maintain traffic-control
devices upon the streets of the town, as deemed necessary, to regulate, warn or
guide traffic in the town.
   (B)   All such traffic-control devices shall conform to the specifications
of the SCDOT.
   (C)   Drivers of all vehicles shall abide by signals of traffic officers and
all automatic and stationary signals.
   (D)   No person shall willfully, without lawful authority, attempt to or
alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device, sign,
street name sign or any part thereof. In addition, any unauthorized person
found in possession of any street sign or traffic-control device from the town
shall be deemed in violation of this section.
§ 34-5 AUTHORITY TO SET SPEED LIMITS; SCDOT APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR STATE
HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor and Council shall have determined on the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation that the maximum speed imposed by this
chapter is greater or less than is reasonable and safe under the conditions
found to exist upon a highway or part of a highway, the Mayor and Council may
determine and declare a reasonable and safe maximum limit thereon which:
      (1)   Decreases the limit at intersections;
      (2)   Increases the limit within an urban district, but not to more than
55 mph; or
      (3)   Decreases the limit outside an urban district, but not to less than
35 mph.
   (B)   Any alteration of the maximum limits on state highways or extensions
thereof in the town, under the provisions of this chapter, shall not be
effective until such alteration has been approved by the SCDOT.
   (C)   Any altered limit established, as authorized by this chapter, shall be
effective at all times, when appropriate signs giving notice thereof have been
erected.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to alter speed limits, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1540
§ 34-6 VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE AND VEHICLE TAG REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street without a valid
driver’s license issued by this or another state to operate the vehicle, and
said vehicle shall have current license tags.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons expressly exempt by state law
from the requirement of a driver’s license, nor shall this section be construed
so as to interfere with reciprocity rights under state law as concerns the
driver of a vehicle bearing an out-of-state license to driving with an out-of-
state driver’s license.
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s license required, see S.C. Code §§ 56-1-20 et seq.
   Requirement that vehicles be registered and licensed, see S.C. Code §§ 56-3-
110 et seq.
§ 34-7 RESPONSIBILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER.
   No person shall allow, permit or let any vehicle registered in his or her
name to violate any of the ordinances of the town; provided, however, that, all
violations of parking ordinances shall be presumed to be with the knowledge of
the owner of such vehicle.
§ 34-8 FIXING TRAFFIC TICKET OR SUMMONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any official or employee of the town to fix any
ticket or summons issued by the Police Department for a violation of any
traffic ordinance.
§§ 34-9—34-36 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: MOVING TRAFFIC
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
34-37   State laws adopted; exceptions
   
34-38   No-passing zones
   
34-39   Truck routes
   
34-40   Special hazards
   
34-41   Required conduct at scene of accident
   
34-42   Trucks required to follow routes
   
34-43   “Jake brakes” prohibited
   34-44—34-70   Reserved
Division 2. Speed Limits
   
34-71   Indicated on signs
   
34-72   Declared
   
34-73   When lower speeds required
   
34-74   Authorized emergency vehicle exception
   34-75—34-93   Reserved
Division 3. Prohibited Conduct
   
34-94   Reserved
   
34-95   Corner-cutting
   
34-96   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicle
   
34-97   Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passenger; exceptions
   
34-98   Operating vehicle on designated play street; exceptions
   
34-99   Operating vehicle with flanges, ribs and the like attached to wheel
   
34-100   Riding, propelling or parking automobile, motorcycle and the like upon
sidewalk; exception
   
34-101   Using unlicensed vehicles; golf carts excepted
   
34-102   Making U-turns
   
34-103   Driving over street under repair or closed to travel
   
34-104   Unlawful passing
   
34-105   Operating or parking vehicle primarily for advertising purposes
without approval
   
34-106   Sounding horn or other warning device in quiet zone; exception
   
34-107   Hauling loads not securely fastened with chains
   
34-108   Careless driving in school zone
   
34-109   Failing to dim lights for approaching vehicle
   
34-110   Unsafely shifting lanes
   
34-111   Driving while intoxicated or under influence of drugs
   
34-112   Impeding free flow of traffic
   
34-113   Riding in/on town vehicle without authorization
   
34-114   Operating motorcycle in reckless or dangerous manner
   34-115—34-138   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 34-37 STATE LAWS ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   All vehicles shall be operated in accordance and conformity with all current
state laws and this code or amendments thereto as such laws and amendments
relate to the operation of vehicles. Such provisions are adopted and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this chapter, except those
provisions relating solely to the SCDOT and those provisions the penalty for
which exceeds a fine of $500 or imprisonment for more than 30 days, or both.
§ 34-38 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   The Mayor and Council may determine those portions of any street where
overtaking and passing a vehicle proceeding in the same direction or driving to
the left of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of no-passing
zones. When such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an
ordinarily observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions thereof.
Statutory reference:
   No-passing zones, see S.C. Code § 56-5-1890
§ 34-39 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The streets listed in the following schedule are hereby designated as truck
routes:
   (A)   Highway 601 North (East Hilton Street);
   (B)   West Hilton from North Hampton to North Matson;
   (C)   Entirety of Matson Street (U.S. 521 By-Pass);
   (D)   Entirety of Minor Street (S.C. 341);
   (E)   North Hampton from Hilton Street (North) Highway 521 Business;
   (F)   South Hampton from Pine Street (U.S. 521 Business); and
   (G)   Eastern Side of Cleveland Street from South Matson Street to West
Marion Street and North Cleveland Street to West Hilton Street will be
designated as truck parking for Soy Bean Trucks entering ADM. (No truck parking
on Cleveland Street between West Marion and West Richland Street.)
(Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 34-40 SPECIAL HAZARDS.
   Where special hazards exist, all motor vehicles shall obey posted signs
giving notice of the special conditions.
§ 34-41 REQUIRED CONDUCT AT SCENE OF ACCIDENT.
   Every person driving a vehicle of any kind which strikes or hits any person
or another vehicle shall stop such vehicle at once and render such assistance
as he or she can, give his or her name, post office address, license number and
serial number of his or her vehicle to the other person or driver. He or she
shall assist in calling a police officer and remain at the scene until a police
officer arrives.
Statutory reference:
   Duties of drivers involved in motor vehicle accidents, see S.C. Code §§ 56-
5-1210 et seq.
§ 34-42 TRUCKS REQUIRED TO FOLLOW ROUTES.
   Where no special hazards exist, all two-axle trucks, three-axle trucks and
tractor-trailer units entering the town destined to any point outside the town,
and not taking on or discharging any goods, wares or merchandise with the town
limits or stopping for fuel, shall travel exclusively on truck routes
established in § 
34-39 of this chapter and on the parts of such truck routes as shall constitute
the shortest and most direct route from the point of entrance into the town and
departure from the town.
(Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 34-43 “JAKE BRAKES” PROHIBITED.
   (A)   This section applies to the use or operation of an auxiliary or
compression engine brake (also known as “Jake Brake”), which produces any noise
in addition to the normal operating engine noise is prohibited within the town
limits. This provision is not intended to prohibit the passage of vehicles
equipped with engine brakes or “Jake brakes” in posted areas, but rather
prohibit the use of such equipment in posted areas.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a truck or truck-tractor to
activate or use the unit’s engine brake within the town limits, except in an
emergency situation.
   (C)   The term EMERGENCY SITUATION, for the purposes of this section, shall
mean one in which there is imminent danger of collision with property, persons
or animals.
   (D)   Emergency vehicles will be exempt from this section.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 11-15-2021)
§§ 34-44—34-70 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. SPEED LIMITS
§ 34-71 INDICATED ON SIGNS.
   The speed limit within the town shall be as indicated by signs giving notice
thereof that are erected upon the streets with approval of the Mayor and
Council.
§ 34-72 DECLARED.
   Where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed for compliance
with this article, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of the limits
specified in this division shall be lawful, such limits established in this
section being:
 
Type of District Speed Limit (in mph)
Business         25
Residential      30
 
§ 34-73 WHEN LOWER SPEEDS REQUIRED.
   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of this
article, drive at an appropriate speed when:
   (A)   Approaching and crossing an intersection;
   (B)   Approaching a hill crest;
   (C)   Traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway; and
   (D)   Any special hazard exists with respect to other traffic or by reason
of weather or street conditions.
§ 34-74 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The speed limitations set forth in this division shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles when responding to emergency calls and the
drivers thereof sound an audible signal by siren, bell or exhaust whistle
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than 500 feet.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street, nor shall it protect the driver of any vehicle from the
consequence of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
§§ 34-75—34-93 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 34-94 RESERVED.
§ 34-95 CORNER-CUTTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to use a
sidewalk area or any driveway, parking lot or business entrance at any
intersection to cut-a-corner purposely.
   (B)   It is the intention of this section to prohibit corner-cutting by
driving a vehicle from one street onto another across any sidewalk or driveway.
§ 34-96 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while it is in motion.
§ 34-97 RIDING ON PORTION OF VEHICLE NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGER; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle nor upon any portion thereof which is
neither designated nor intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall
not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to
persons riding within truck bodies in a space intended for merchandise.
§ 34-98 OPERATING VEHICLE ON DESIGNATED PLAY STREET; EXCEPTIONS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or any part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any portion
thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are
within such closed area.
§ 34-99 OPERATING VEHICLE WITH FLANGES, RIBS AND THE LIKE ATTACHED TO WHEEL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, drive or cause to be driven
or operated, over, upon or across the paved streets or any thoroughfare, a
vehicle having wheels with flanges, ribs, clamps, spikes or other devices
attached to or a part of the wheel of such vehicle that would injure or damage
the paved surface of said streets or thoroughfares.
§ 34-100 RIDING, PROPELLING OR PARKING AUTOMOBILE, MOTORCYCLE AND THE LIKE UPON
SIDEWALK; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, propel or park any
automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle upon any sidewalk, except as may be
necessary in entering or leaving the premises or building.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to children under 12 years of age who
ride bicycles and tricycles on residential sidewalks, at a speed less than 15
mph.
§ 34-101 USING UNLICENSED VEHICLES; GOLF CARTS EXCEPTED.
   (A)   The use of all unlicensed motor vehicles including, but not limited
to, three-wheelers, four-wheelers, mini-bikes, go-carts, trail-bikes and other
unlicensed vehicles is hereby forbidden on the streets, roads or sidewalks,
within the corporate limits.
   (B)   The use of such vehicles is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   These provisions shall not apply to the use of golf carts on town
streets as described and intended under state law.
Editor’s note:
   These prohibitions are declared to be nuisances in that they: (1) prevent
the free circulation of traffic in, through and from the town; (2) the use
thereof endangers the health, safety and welfare of the general public; and (3)
these conditions can be reduced by said prohibitions.
§ 34-102 MAKING U-TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to make a U-turn or
other prohibited turn at any point where such turn is prohibited by posted
signs or to accomplish a U-turn by deviously going into or through private
property adjoining a street where such turn is prohibited.
§ 34-103 DRIVING OVER STREET UNDER REPAIR OR CLOSED TO TRAVEL.
   No person shall drive or cause to be driven any vehicle over any street
which is being repaired or paved or over any part of a street wholly closed to
travel.
§ 34-104 UNLAWFUL PASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to pass another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction when:
   (A)   The passing vehicle is within 100 feet of an intersection;
   (B)   The passing vehicle is approaching a curve; or
   (C)   A solid yellow line is located in the lane of the passing vehicle or
upon a hill or grade.
§ 34-105 OPERATING OR PARKING VEHICLE PRIMARILY FOR ADVERTISING PURPOSES
WITHOUT APPROVAL.
   No person shall operate or park any vehicle on any street for the primary
purpose of advertising, without the prior approval of the Mayor and Council.
§ 34-106 SOUNDING HORN OR OTHER WARNING DEVICE IN QUIET ZONE; EXCEPTION.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a quiet zone, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
§ 34-107 HAULING LOADS NOT SECURELY FASTENED WITH CHAINS.
   No person shall haul logs, pulpwood logs, lumber, crossties or barrels over
or upon any street unless they shall be safely and securely fastened, with
chains, on such vehicle. The links of such chain shall be made of material with
a dimension not less than one-half inch in diameter.
§ 34-108 CARELESS DRIVING IN SCHOOL ZONE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a motor vehicle within a
designated school zone to fail to observe unusual care and caution.
   (B)   Speed limits as posted shall be carefully observed.
§ 34-109 FAILING TO DIM LIGHTS FOR APPROACHING VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, from dusk to dawn, when
approaching another vehicle from an opposite direction, to fail to dim the
lights of his or her vehicle when it is within 300 feet of the approaching
vehicle.
§ 34-110 UNSAFELY SHIFTING LANES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to shift lanes of traffic
without first ascertaining that a shift in lanes of traffic by his or her
vehicle will not impede or interfere with the movement of any other vehicle
upon the public right-of-way.
§ 34-111 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED OR UNDER INFLUENCE OF DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of intoxicating
liquors, narcotic drugs, barbiturates, paraldehydes or drugs, herbs or any
substance of like character, whether synthetic or natural, to drive any vehicle
within the town.
Statutory reference:
   Operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs, see S.C.
Code § 56-5-2930
§ 34-112 IMPEDING FREE FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to congregate upon
the streets or sidewalks in such a manner as to impede the free flow of
traffic.
§ 34-113 RIDING IN/ON TOWN VEHICLE WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to ride in or on any town
vehicle, without official authority to do so.
§ 34-114 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE IN RECKLESS OR DANGEROUS MANNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorcycle in a reckless or
dangerous manner on any public right-of-way.
§§ 34-115—34-138 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: PARKING, STANDING, STOPPING
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
34-139   Authority to set parking restrictions; compliance required
   
34-140   Special parking spaces designated
   
34-141   Required conduct when vehicle disabled
   
34-142   Parking tickets amounts; non-payment procedure
   34-143—34-167   Reserved
Division 2. Prohibited Conduct
   
34-168   Parking bus on public street
   
34-169   Parking in more than one marked off area
   
34-170   Proprietor, manager or employee parking within business district
restricted
   
34-171   Obstructing streets or alleys; temporary stops excepted
   
34-172   Loading zone
   
34-173   Designated hazardous or congested place
   
34-174   Designated fire lane; penalty
   
34-175   Designated school zone
   
34-176   Parking in manner creating safety hazard
   
34-177   Parking which obstructs vision of approaching traffic
   
34-178   Display upon roadway of vehicle for sale within the town limits
   
34-179   Changing parking places to avoid time limitation within the town
limits
   34-180—34-209   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 34-139 AUTHORITY TO SET PARKING RESTRICTIONS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   In addition to the other provisions of this article relative to
parking, the Mayor and Council may designate areas or spaces on town streets
where the parking of vehicles is either permitted, prohibited or limited to a
specific time or otherwise restricted.
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice that parking is prohibited during
certain hours, no person shall park a vehicle between the hours so designated
on any day, except Sundays and public holidays.
   (C)   When signs are erected giving notice that parking is limited to a
certain period of time, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than the
period and between the hours so designated, except on Sundays and public
holidays.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate the parking of vehicles, see S.C. Code § 56-5-710
§ 34-140 SPECIAL PARKING SPACES DESIGNATED.
   The Council, in its discretion, may designate special parking areas or
places for which sufficient cause is shown.
§ 34-141 REQUIRED CONDUCT WHEN VEHICLE DISABLED.
   The operator of any vehicle which becomes disabled on any street within the
town shall:
   (A)   Move the disabled vehicle to the extreme right side of the road;
   (B)   Notify the Police Department immediately that the vehicle is disabled;
   (C)   Make arrangements to have the vehicle removed from the town street and
actually have the vehicle removed as quickly as possible; and
   (D)   Turn on warning flashers or place warning reflectors to advise other
moving vehicles of the disabled vehicle, if no warning flashers or reflectors
are available, remain with the vehicle to personally direct and warn other
vehicles of the disabled vehicle.
§ 34-142 PARKING TICKETS AMOUNTS; NON-PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The ticket amount shall be the only penalty imposed if such amount is
paid within the time prescribed on the ticket.
   (B)   Failure to pay such amount within the prescribed time, however, shall
subject the owner thereof to be summoned to Municipal Court and punished within
its discretion.
§§ 34-143—34-167 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 34-168 PARKING BUS ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful to park a bus on a public street, except in places
designated as bus stops.
§ 34-169 PARKING IN MORE THAN ONE MARKED OFF AREA.
   (A)   Placement of vehicle where space not marked off; prohibited; procedure
for entering roadway.
      (1)   Where parking is permitted on streets not marked off for parking,
the operator of any vehicle shall park such vehicle with the right front and
right rear wheels as near as possible to the curb or side of the road and
parallel thereto.
      (2)   Vehicles parked within marked areas shall not occupy any part of
more than one space.
      (3)   The operator of a parked vehicle shall enter the roadway only when
the roadway is clear.
   (B)   Permitted to occupy only one space. All vehicles parked in areas in
which parking spaces have been marked off or designated shall be parked
entirely within a single space.
§ 34-170 PROPRIETOR, MANAGER OR EMPLOYEE PARKING WITHIN BUSINESS DISTRICT
RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No proprietor, manager or employee of any business in the business
district shall park and leave standing any motor vehicle for a period of more
than three consecutive hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
except on Sundays and legal holidays.
   (B)   Each three-hour period of violation hereof shall constitute a separate
offense.
§ 34-171 OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR ALLEYS; TEMPORARY STOPS EXCEPTED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street or alley
in such a manner or under such conditions as to obstruct the well-traveled
portion of the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   A driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading
of passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals of a police officer.
§ 34-172 LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and the
loading of materials in any place marked as a loading zone are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 60 minutes.
§ 34-173 DESIGNATED HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACE.
   When signs are erected at an approach to hazardous or congested places, no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
§ 34-174 DESIGNATED FIRE LANE; PENALTY.
   (A)   To provide for the emergency access of Fire Department apparatus and
rescue operations, fire lanes may be designated adjacent to buildings. The fire
lanes may be designated by the use of no-parking signs, yellow curbing or
pavement markings.
   (B)   Any person who stops, stands or parks a vehicle in a designated fire
lane, within the corporate limits of the town, shall be deemed to be in
violation of this section.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor,
punishable by the Municipal Court.
§ 34-175 DESIGNATED SCHOOL ZONE.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
§ 34-176 PARKING IN MANNER CREATING SAFETY HAZARD.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any place within the town in such a fashion
that it creates a safety hazard.
§ 34-177 PARKING WHICH OBSTRUCTS VISION OF APPROACHING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any street if the vehicle obstructs the vision
of traffic approaching the vehicle in any direction, or which causes vehicles
approaching the parked vehicle to alter their normal course of movement.
§ 34-178 DISPLAY UPON ROADWAY OF VEHICLE FOR SALE WITHIN THE TOWN LIMITS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of displaying it for sale.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 34-179 CHANGING PARKING PLACES TO AVOID TIME LIMITATION WITHIN THE TOWN
LIMITS.
   No person shall move a vehicle from one limited time municipal parking
place, on any municipal street or municipal parking lot, and return to the same
or park in another such limited time municipal parking place for the sole
purpose of avoiding compliance with the time limitation on parking, and with
the intent to engage in employment in the downtown area rather than in any
other activity.
(Ord. 2022-007, passed 10-17-2022)
§§ 34-180—34-209 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: FUNERALS
Section
   
34-210   Driving between vehicles in procession prohibited; exception
   
34-211   Required conduct when driving in procession
   34-212—34-232   Reserved
§ 34-210 DRIVING BETWEEN VEHICLES IN PROCESSION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a
funeral while in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously identified as
required in this article.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic signals or police officers.
§ 34-211 REQUIRED CONDUCT WHEN DRIVING IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the
roadway as practical and follow the vehicle ahead as closely as practical and
safe, with headlights on.
§§ 34-212—34-232 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
34-233   Definitions
   
34-234   Storing or maintaining on private property prohibited unless covered
or sheltered; exception
   
34-235   Requirements for storing while repairing or restoring
   34-236—34-263   Reserved
Division 2. Impoundment
   
34-264   Authority; procedure
   
34-265   Recordkeeping
   34-266—34-293   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned or derelict motor vehicles, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-5810 et seq.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 34-233 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle parked for 48 hours in excess of the time
allowed for such parking by any provision of this chapter.
   INOPERABLE AUTOMOBILE. A vehicle incapable of moving under its own power
without repair and without a current license plate.
   JUNK AUTOMOBILE. Any vehicle with such present value that it would not be
economical to repair or store it and without a current license plate and upon
which property taxes have not been paid.
(Ord. 47, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 34-234 STORING OR MAINTAINING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED UNLESS COVERED
OR SHELTERED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or tenant of any property in the
town to permit a junk automobile or inoperable vehicle to be brought upon or
remain upon his or her property unless such vehicle is covered or sheltered in
such a fashion as to adequately prevent the infestation of such vehicle by
snakes, mosquitoes and other insects, or rats and other vermin and to prevent
viewing from a street or adjacent property. This provision, however, shall not
apply to a licensed car dealer, new or used, garage or wrecking yard, upon
property operated for his or her business.
   (B)   No person shall salvage, store or otherwise maintain upon property
zoned residential any junked or inoperable vehicle for the purpose of taking
parts therefrom unless said vehicle is covered or sheltered.
(Ord. 47, passed 5-11-1998)
§ 34-235 REQUIREMENTS FOR STORING WHILE REPAIRING OR RESTORING.
   The owner of any vehicle on the property of a person who is not licensed as
described in § 
34-234 of this chapter which is present for the purpose of restoring or
repairing shall adhere to the following.
   (A)   The owner must complete the repair/restoration form supplied by the
town indicating the status of repairs or restoration.
   (B)   If the repairs/restoration are not to begin within ten days after the
owner has been contacted by a law enforcement officer, the vehicle shall be
covered or sheltered as outlined in § 
34-234 of this chapter.
   (C)   Vehicles shall not be situated where visible from a street and shall
be in the rear of the dwelling if not under a closed shelter or garage.
(Ord. 47, passed 5-11-1998)
§§ 34-236—34-263 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. IMPOUNDMENT
§ 34-264 AUTHORITY; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Duty of officer in charge; notice. If any such vehicle is found parked
in violation of this code, or abandoned on the streets of the town, it shall be
the duty of a police officer to cause such vehicle to be removed and conveyed
to a garage designated by the officer in charge at the owner’s expense. The
owner, or person in whose name such vehicle is registered, shall be given
immediate personal notice, if he or she is a resident of the town. If he or she
is a non-resident, he or she shall be given notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, if his or her address can be ascertained.
   (B)   Contents of notice; publication. If the address of such owner cannot
be ascertained, the officer in charge or his or her agent shall advertise that
such vehicle has been abandoned and impounded, giving an accurate description
thereof. He or she shall include the name of the person licensed to operate it,
the circumstances under which the same was found and removed and calling upon
the owner to reclaim the same within 30 days. Such notice shall be published
once a week for two consecutive weeks in any newspaper published in the town.
If such vehicle is not reclaimed after such advertisement, the same shall be
sold for cash at public auction to the highest bidder in front of the Town Hall
or such other place as may be designated therefor.
   (C)   Sale; disposition of proceeds; owner’s claim. The expenses of
removing, keeping, advertising and selling the vehicle shall be paid from the
proceeds of such sale, and the balance, if any, deposited with the Town Clerk,
subject to the claim of the owner which shall be filed and proved within 12
months thereafter.
   (D)   Forfeiture. If no such claim is filed and proven within 12 months as
prescribed in subsection (C) above, such proceeds shall be forfeited to the
town.
§ 34-265 RECORDKEEPING.
   The officer in charge shall keep a written record of such vehicle, the name
of the registered owner, the license tag and the circumstances under which it
was found, impounded, stored and sold, including the amount received at the
sale and any amount deducted therefrom.
§§ 34-266—34-293 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: BICYCLES
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
34-294   Applicability
   
34-295   Compliance with traffic laws required; exceptions
   34-296—34-325   Reserved
Division 2. Prohibited Conduct
   
34-326   Riding abreast
   
34-327   Riding on sidewalks; exceptions
   
34-328   Operating without hands or control
   
34-329   Operating without bell or other proper warning signal
   
34-330   Larceny
   34-331—34-354   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-3410 et seq.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 34-294 APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or
upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those
exceptions stated in this article.
§ 34-295 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC LAWS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this code, except as to any special regulations in this article and
except as to those provisions of this code which, by their nature, can have no
application.
§§ 34-296—34-325 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 34-326 RIDING ABREAST.
   It shall be unlawful for persons on bicycles to ride more than two abreast,
except in parades and similar circumstances.
§ 34-327 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride a bicycle on a sidewalk, except for
the purpose of crossing the same when necessary; provided, however, that, this
section shall not apply to tricycles operated in residential districts by
children under 12 years of age.
§ 34-328 OPERATING WITHOUT HANDS OR CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a bicycle without having at least one hand
on the handlebars at all times, or to fail to have control of the bicycle at
all times.
§ 34-329 OPERATING WITHOUT BELL OR OTHER PROPER WARNING SIGNAL.
   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or other
device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100 feet;
except that, a bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle.
§ 34-330 LARCENY.
   The larceny of any bicycle shall be punishable at the discretion of the
Municipal Court, when the value thereof is less than $100.
§§ 34-331—34-354 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
34-355   Obedience to traffic-control device or police official required
   
34-356   Required conduct when walking on streets or roadways without sidewalks
   34-357—34-385   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-3110 et seq.
§ 34-355 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE OR POLICE OFFICIAL REQUIRED.
   Pedestrians shall strictly comply with the directions of any official
traffic-control device or police official.
§ 34-356 REQUIRED CONDUCT WHEN WALKING ON STREETS OR ROADWAYS WITHOUT
SIDEWALKS.
   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon a
street shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
§§ 34-357—34-385 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: RAILROADS
Section
   
34-386   Easy-access crossings; required
   
34-387   Same; duty of company to safely maintain and keep free of obstructions
   
34-388   Unauthorized riding prohibited
Statutory reference:
   General Railroad Law, see S.C. Code §§ 58-17-10 et seq.
§ 34-386 EASY-ACCESS CROSSINGS; REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies and managers thereof owning
or controlling railroads within the corporate limits and operating trains
therein, to provide crossings easy of access and suitable for the use of street
traffic.
§ 34-387 SAME; DUTY OF COMPANY TO SAFELY MAINTAIN AND KEEP FREE OF
OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of any railroad company to put in good repair and
maintain in good condition all crossings on all streets or parts of streets
through or over which its line of tracks may run and to keep the same free from
obstructions of every kind.
§ 34-388 UNAUTHORIZED RIDING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except employees thereof, to climb or
to attempt to climb upon or to board or attempt to board any locomotive,
engine, car, coach or train of cars while the same is in motion or for any
person other than a regular passenger or employee of the railroad to ride on or
upon any locomotive engine, car, coach or train of cars while same is operated
within the corporate limits.
CHAPTER 35: RESERVED
CHAPTER 36: UTILITIES
      Article
         
I.   IN GENERAL
         
II.   UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
         
III.   WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
         
IV.   SEWER CONNECTIONS
         
V.   SOLID WASTE AND RECOVERY FEES
         
VI.   RATES, FEES AND DEPOSITS
         
VII.   PRETREATMENT
         
VIII.   SEWER USE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
36-1   Acts prohibited by article
   
36-2   Polluting water supply
   
36-3   Illegal connections
   
36-4   Destroying, defacing and the like of public waterworks system or
equipment
   
36-5   Obstructing sewer lines
   
36-6   Tampering with or changing water meters; damaging water meters
   
36-7   Reconnecting when service discontinued for non-payment
   
36-8   Discharging storm water, ground water and the like into sewer; exception
   
36-9   Failing to maintain sewer causing excessive amounts of infiltration/
inflow to be discharged into system
   36-10—36-36   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for public works, see S.C. Code § 5-31-250
   Authorization to enact necessary ordinances to maintain sewer system, see
S.C. Code § 5-31-900
§ 36-1 ACTS PROHIBITED BY ARTICLE.
   The enumerated acts in this article shall be unlawful and a violation by any
persons who engage in such acts without appropriate permission or authority or
without the appropriate supervision as specified in this chapter. The
emunerated acts shall not be considered all-inclusive.
§ 36-2 POLLUTING WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful to defile or pollute the water in any pipe, tank or
reservoir connected with the public water system or to make connection
therewith or maintain any connection whereby water from any other source may be
pumped or allowed to flow into the public distribution system which may result
in a cross-connection.
§ 36-3 ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to connect with, use or tap any public water or
sewer main without specific authorization of the Council in writing first
obtained, other than normal connections for which connection fees shall have
been paid, but not including, private wells.
   (B)   It is the duty of the town to ensure safe drinking water for all of
its citizens and business operators. In the interest of the entire town, no
person shall use or operate a drilled well for human consumption within or
without the town where water is furnished by the town from the town’s water
supply. A unit, residence or business that is currently utilizing a well for
human consumption, and is within the town’s water service area, but is not
connected to the town’s water distribution system shall not be required to
connect to the town’s water distribution system as a result of this chapter.
Otherwise, a well may be used for irrigation, external non-human consumption
purposes or other such uses.
   (C)   No person shall place any pipe or similar material in such a manner as
to furnish public water or sewer service to others, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put any substance, either solid
or liquid, into any public sewer main or line, at manholes or in any other way,
than through a connection as may be made for the purpose and provided by
ordinance.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any substance which
may be harmful or liable to damage the public sewerage system or to obstruct
the flow of sewage in said system.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after notice to cease and desist,
to violate the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to connect or permit to remain connected, any
open gutter, rain water conductor or cesspool with any sanitary sewer line.
(Ord. 98, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 36-4 DESTROYING, DEFACING AND THE LIKE OF PUBLIC WATERWORKS SYSTEM OR
EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully destroy, break, injure,
climb upon or deface or in any other manner, interfere with any public water
mains, water tanks, sewers, fire hydrants, meter boxes, stop cocks, pumps or
other mixtures of the public waterworks system or throw into such system any
bricks, earth, stone, filth or other substances. It shall also be unlawful for
any person to willfully destroy, break, injure, deface or in any other manner
interfere with any house, fence, wells, street mains, sluice pipes, gate valves
or to place advertisements or placards on any property belonging to the
waterworks or sewerage system.
§ 36-5 OBSTRUCTING SEWER LINES.
   It shall be unlawful to place in any water closet, or allow to enter any
soil pipe, any paper other than what is commonly known as “toilet paper”, or
material or substance likely to block or obstruct the flow or damage the
pipeline or sewerage system or to dispose of any flammable, noxious or
chemically active material harmful to life or property into the sewerage
system.
§ 36-6 TAMPERING WITH OR CHANGING WATER METERS; DAMAGING WATER METERS.
   The individual contracting for water service shall be responsible for any
negligent or willful damage to meters, meter boxes, valves, locking devices, or
other fixtures pertaining to water service, and the actual cost of labor and
materials used in replacement or repair of such damaged fixtures shall be added
to the customer's utility bill.
(Ord. 2023-009, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 36-7 RECONNECTING WHEN SERVICE DISCONTINUED FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to reconnect water or sewer service or to continue to
use such service when it has been discontinued for non-payment of a bill for
service, until such bill has been paid in full, including a reconnection fee in
an amount as established from time to time by the Town Council and set forth in
the schedule of fees and charges, available for examination in the Town Clerk’s
office.
§ 36-8 DISCHARGING STORM WATER, GROUND WATER AND THE LIKE INTO SEWER;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any polluted
waters, such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited areas, which
storm water may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer,
by permission of the town.
   (B)   Storm water, other than that exempted in subsection (A) above, and all
other polluted drainage, shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved
by the town or other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling water
or process waters may be discharged, if approved by the town, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural outlet.
§ 36-9 FAILING TO MAINTAIN SEWER CAUSING EXCESSIVE AMOUNTS OF INFILTRATION/
INFLOW TO BE DISCHARGED INTO SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates of requires a
different meaning.
      EXCESSIVE INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The quantities of infiltration/inflow
which can be economically eliminated from a sewerage system by rehabilitation,
as determined by a cost effectiveness analysis that compares the costs for
correcting the infiltration/inflow conditions with the total costs for
transportation and treatment of the infiltration/inflow, subject to EPA
provisions.
      INFILTRATION.
         (a)   The water entering the sewerage system, including sewer service
connections from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.
         (b)   The term INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished
from, inflow.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
      INFLOW.
         (a)   The water discharged into the sewerage system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, sewers and
combined sewers, catchbasins, storm waters, surface runoff, streetwash waters
or drainage.
         (b)   The term INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.
   (B)   Duty to properly maintain. The owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer shall maintain said sewer in such a manner as to prevent
excessive amounts of infiltration/inflow from entering the public sewerage
system. The town shall notify the owner of any building whose sewer is not
properly maintained. The owner shall have the necessary repairs made at his or
her own expense, and the town shall determine whether a person, properly
licensed, will be required to make the repairs. Before any underground portions
are covered, the owner shall notify the town when the building sewer is ready
for inspection.
§§ 36-10—36-36 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Section
   
36-37   Consent or franchise agreements; required
   
36-38   Same; fee
   
36-39   Location of gas, electric and the like lines; approval required
   
36-40   Same; petition; notice; hearing
   36-41—36-68   Reserved
§ 36-37 CONSENT OR FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain or
operate in, on, above or under any street or public place under control of the
town any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure or facility for utilities,
communications, cable television or other purposes without a consent agreement
or franchise agreement, issued by the Town Council by ordinance, which
prescribes the term, fees and conditions for use.
§ 36-38 SAME; FEE.
   (A)   The annual fee for the use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be included in the ordinance
approving the agreement. Said fee shall be based on the gross revenues derived
from activities in the town, the length of lines installed in the streets and
public places or other formula deemed appropriate by the Town Council.
   (B)   No consent fee or franchise fee shall be construed to be in lieu of a
business license tax based on gross revenue, unless specifically provided by
ordinance.
   (C)   Credits for business license taxes paid may be applied to fees set by
ordinance granting consent or a franchise when specifically authorized by
ordinance.
§ 36-39 LOCATION OF GAS, ELECTRIC AND THE LIKE LINES; APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate any underground gas, electric,
telephone, cable television or any other type lines, within less than two feet
from any utility pole or line without a permit.
§ 36-40 SAME; PETITION; NOTICE; HEARING.
   If any person shall desire or deem it necessary to locate an underground
line within less than two feet of any utility pole or line, such person shall
file a petition with the Town Council requesting a permit to do so. The
Council, after written notice of not less than ten days to the person filing
such petition and to the owner or person in control or charge of such utility
pole or line, shall grant a hearing on said petition, at which the parties in
interest shall be heard. The decision of the Council shall be final and binding
upon all parties in interest.
§§ 36-41—36-68 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: WATER AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
36-69   Authority to provide service and charge fee
   
36-70   Wholesale purchase of potable water
   
36-71   Compliance with the Rules and Regulations Governing the Development of
Subdivision Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems required
   
36-72   Purpose
   
36-73   Water service outside corporate limits
   
36-74   Water and Sewer Departments
   
36-75   Annexation of areas outside corporate limits
   
36-76   Recording of service agreement
   
36-77   Non-storm water discharges
   
36-78   Fats, oil, grease and sand discharges
   36-79   Extension of service
   36-80—36-104   Reserved
Division 2. Cross-Connection Control Program
   
36-105   Established
   
36-106   Connection procedure
   
36-107   Owners responsible for installation and maintenance of sewer lines
within property boundary
   
36-108   Excavations to be backfilled and properly restored
   36-109—36-129   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 36-69 AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE SERVICE AND CHARGE FEE.
   (A)   The town shall furnish water to persons for reasonable compensation
and charge a reasonable charge for the maintenance and operation of a sewerage
system. Such charges shall be fixed from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   Sewer customers experiencing a severe increase in their sewer bill may
be eligible for an adjustment to that bill, if and only if, the bill being
considered is based on at least twice the normal six-month average for that
individual account and the customer completes an adjustment request form. No
adjustments will be made to the water portion of the bill and no adjustments
will be made to any bill within the first six months of opening the account.
Sewer customers may have no more than one adjustment spanning no more than two
billing cycles to their account during any 12-month period. Faucets or outside
spigots left on will not be considered a leak and, therefore, no adjustment
made on such accounts. Customers requesting such adjustments must have had a
valid leak and show proof of repair. The formula for determining the adjustment
to the customer's bill is as follows: the average of the past six months of
sewer charges, including the high usage charges, will be calculated with the
adjustment credit equaling the abnormally high usage sewer charge minus the
six-month average sewer charge.
(Ord. 92, passed 6-4-2002; Ord. 2024-009, passed 4-15-2024)
§ 36-70 WHOLESALE PURCHASE OF POTABLE WATER.
   The town shall cease operation of its water treatment plant, and shall
purchase potable water at a wholesale rate from the County Water and Sewer
District. This water shall serve all customers of the town’s public water
system. The wholesale rate shall be established by the County Water and Sewer
District.
(Ord. 92, passed 6-4-2002)
§ 36-71 COMPLIANCE WITH THE RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE DEVELOPMENT OF
SUBDIVISION WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   For the protection of health and the prevention of disease, all water and
wastewater facilities serving the public by private ownership shall conform to
that certain document known as the Rules and Regulations Governing the
Development of Subdivision Water Supply and Waste Disposal Systems, prescribed
by the state’s Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC), with
amendments thereto.
§ 36-72 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article shall be:
   (A)   To protect and maintain the water supply system so as to continuously
provide safe and potable water in sufficient quantity and pressure and free
from potential hazards to the health of its consumers;
   (B)   To facilitate the elimination or control of any existing, unprotected
cross-connections between the potable water supply system and any other water
systems, sewers or waste lines or any piping systems or containers containing
polluting substances; and
   (C)   To provide for the establishment and maintenance of a continuing
program of cross-connection control which will effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the potable water supply system by cross-
connection.
§ 36-73 WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Applicants for water service outside the corporate limits, when required to
do so, shall extend water lines under streets or public ways to connect to the
water meter at their own expense. In such cases, the town reserves the right to
locate water meters in such positions or locations as deemed in its own best
interest.
§ 36-74 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The Water Utility Division will be under the jurisdiction of the town
and shall be considered as a utility business division and subject to property
taxes and franchise fees.
   (B)   The Sewer Utility Division will be under the jurisdiction of the town
and shall be considered as a utility business division and subject to property
taxes and franchise fees.
   (C)   The property tax rate for the Water Division and the Sewer Division
shall be the same percentage rate for all real property as any utility business
as determined by the state. The property taxes will be distributed to the
General Fund Revenue of the town at the beginning of the next fiscal year.
   (D)   The franchise fee for the Water Division and the Sewer Division shall
be at a percentage rate of 15% of the gross income determined by the
established water and sewer rates of the town for the previous fiscal year.
This amount will be distributed to the General Fund Revenue of the town as
needed during the next fiscal year.
(Ord. 171, passed 6-20-2016)
§ 36-75 ANNEXATION OF AREAS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Neither new water or sewer services shall be furnished or rendered in
any area outside the corporate limits unless the customer executes a utility
service/annexation agreement. The town shall furnish forms of service and
annexation agreement for any service rendered by the town to its customers,
which forms are on file and available for use in the town offices, and which
forms may from time to time be amended as necessary to meet the requirements of
law. The service and annexation agreement, when signed by the grantor(s) and by
an authorized representative of the town, shall become a contract under which
the town agrees to furnish utility services to the individual consumer, and the
consumer agrees to receive and pay for the services in accordance with the rate
schedule and the service regulations of the town on file in the office of the
town, and as the same may be modified from time to time, which rate schedules
and service regulations are hereby made a part of the contract as effectually
as if fully set forth therein.
   (B)   If the requested utility service is not available, and the area or
property is annexed into the town pursuant to this section, the entire
subdivision or property desiring service must lie wholly within the town after
annexation. All utility facilities within the annexed area shall be constructed
at the owner's expense to provide services in the entire area annexed. All such
construction shall comply with town specifications and shall be subject to
supervision by the town. Title to all facilities and proper easements shall be
conveyed to the town. All connection and utility charges shall be in accordance
with the applicable current in-town rate schedule for the service(s) furnished
upon annexation.
   (C)   If the requested utility service is not available, and the property is
not contiguous to the town and cannot be annexed at the time the request for
service is made, the extension of the utility services to the property shall be
entirely at the owner's expense. All such facilities shall be constructed in
accordance with standards and specifications of the town and under the
supervision of the town. Title to same, along with all easements, shall be
conveyed to the town. All connection and utility charges shall be in accordance
with the applicable current out-of-town rate schedule for the service(s)
furnished. Since annexation is not immediately available because the property
is not contiguous the provisions of subsection (A) require the annexation
agreement to be executed.
   (D)   The Town Council may waive any or all fees for projects if deemed for
the public good or if the project is grant eligible.
(Ord. 2019-009, passed 10-21-2019; Ord. 2023-008, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 36-76 RECORDING OF SERVICE AGREEMENT.
   The utility service and annexation agreement, which shall constitute a
restrictive covenant upon the referenced property, will be recorded at the
office of the Clerk of Court by town staff at the grantor(s) expense. The
agreement shall contain a clause whereby the customer acknowledges and agrees
that, as a condition of service and connection of the water and/or sewer system
to the referenced property, they will petition, when requested by the town (by
group or individual method) for annexation to the town under S.C. Code § 5-3-
150. It will also be acknowledged and agreed that it may be necessary to
execute a petition for annexation on more than one occasion; however, the final
acceptance of said petition rest upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the
governing body of the town.
(Ord. 2019-009, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 36-77 NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The purpose of the Non-Storm Water Discharge and Post Construction
Storm Water Management Ordinance is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   The objective of the Non-Storm Water Discharge and Post Construction
Storm Water Management Ordinance is to prohibit unpermitted or unhallowed non-
storm water discharges to the storm drainage system and to monitor and enforce
compliance with post construction storm water management plans.
   (C)   This section shall apply to all persons discharging storm water and/or
non-storm water discharges from any premises into the storm drainage system.
(Ord. 176, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 36-78 FATS, OIL, GREASE AND SAND DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The purpose of the Fats, Oil, Grease and Sand Discharge Ordinance is
to provide for the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the
town.
   (B)   The objective of the Fats, Oil, Grease, and Sand Discharge Ordinance
is to prohibit excessive amounts to be discharged in the town’s sanitary sewer
system and to require fats, oil, grease and sand interceptors for all public
eating places, restaurants and all other commercial and industrial
establishments from which fats, oil, grease or sand can be discharged. This
section also provides for monitoring and enforce compliance for all public
eating places, restaurants and all other commercial and industrial
establishments from which fats, oil, grease or sand can be discharged.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any private living quarters or
dwelling units, but is required for all public eating places, restaurants and
all other commercial and industrial establishments from which fats, oil, grease
and sand can be discharged into the town’s sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 177, passed 11-21-2016)
§ 36-79 EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   All utilities of the town shall be furnished to any applicant situated
within the corporate limits if the requested utility service is available. If
the requested service is not available at the time of the request, it shall be
furnished at such time as it is available; provided, however, an applicant may
obtain immediate service by paying all costs incurred in the extension of
necessary facilities and conveying title to same to the town. The construction
and installation of such facilities shall be under the direction and
supervision of the town and subject to standards and specifications required by
the town.
   (B)   If sanitary sewerage is not available from the town, a certificate
from the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC),
approving a septic tank for the property, shall be obtained and submitted with
the request for water service to the property.
   (C)   The Town Council is hereby authorized to accept or reject requests for
extensions of water and sewer service. When such requests are accepted,
assessments shall be entered into a book entitled "Water and Sewer Assessment
Liens" kept by the Town Clerk. The names of the owners, location of the
property, the amount of the assessment and the time or times of payment shall
be recorded therein.
   (D)   The Town Council may waive any or all fees for projects if deemed for
the public good or if the project is grant eligible.
(Ord. 2023-008, passed 7-17-2023)
§§ 36-80—36-104 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
§ 36-105 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Purpose; authority. For the protection of the public water supply
system against possible contamination arising from problems involving cross-
connections, the Water Department is hereby authorized to adopt regulations,
subject to approval by the Town Council, establishing and maintaining a cross-
connection control program. Such program shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   The survey, inspection and approval of all existing facilities;
      (2)   The evaluation, inspection and approval of new facilities;
      (3)   Requirements for periodic testing of all backflow prevention
devices; and
      (4)   The assessment and collection of fees in an amount sufficient to
cover the cost of the program.
   (B)   Compliance with DHEC regulations required. The cross-connection
control program shall be in accordance with the regulations promulgated by the
DHEC, which regulations are adopted and incorporated by reference as if fully
set forth in this section and made applicable to the water supply system and
all connections thereto.
   (C)   Enforcement authority. The Superintendent of the town’s Water
Department is hereby given the primary responsibility for the enforcement of
the provisions of this division and for maintaining all records pertaining
thereto.
   (D)   Applicability. The regulations and provisions of this division apply
to the entire water system of the town, to all water customers of the town and
to all connections with the water supply system of the town, whether located
inside or outside of the town limits.
   (E)   Unauthorized connections. It shall be unlawful for any person to make
any connection to the town’s water supply system without the approval of the
Superintendent of the Water Department. Each day such unauthorized connection
exists prior to obtaining this approval, shall constitute a separate offense
and is punishable by a fine of not more than the maximum allowed by the
Municipal Court Judge per day.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
division or of the regulations establishing a cross-connection control program
pursuant to this division shall be served with a written notice stating the
nature of the violation and shall be given a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. Failure to correct the
violation within the time limit specified shall constitute an unlawful act
subject to the penalties deemed appropriate by the Town Council.
(Ord. 30, passed 5-12-1997)
§ 36-106 CONNECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application required; contents. Before any portion of the plumbing and
drainage system of any building shall be constructed, there shall be filed by
the owner or agent of the property, at the office of the Town Clerk, a written
application for connections with the sewerage and waterworks systems, stating:
      (1)   The location of the building, with a plan of the same, showing in
detail:
         (a)   The entire proposed connections of the same;
         (b)   The entire proposed connections from the public sewer line
through the building to the terminus; and
         (c)   All fixtures, traps, vent pipes and the like.
      (2)   The application shall also contain a specific agreement to obey and
abide by any and all resolutions, ordinances, rules and regulations that are
now or may hereafter by adopted by the Council for the protection of the
sewerage and waterworks system and to restrict, regulate and control the use of
the same and the connections therewith.
   (B)   Right of entry. The application also shall give permission to an
authorized representative of the town to enter the premises of the applicant,
at any reasonable hour, to investigate the plumbing or sewer connections.
   (C)   Inspection; permit issued. The plan shall be inspected and approved,
corrected or modified by the inspector, whereupon a permit for the proposed
connections shall be given by the Clerk.
   (D)   Work commences. The work shall be performed by a regularly licensed
plumber, if available, and provided the municipal sewer collector lines are of
sufficient depth to serve each residence or other building and within a
reasonable distance thereto.
§ 36-107 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SEWER LINES
WITHIN PROPERTY BOUNDARY.
   Property owners shall be responsible for the installation and maintenance of
sewer lines from the point where they are connected with public sewer mains,
and installation and maintenance of water lines within the limits of the
particular lot from the water meter.
§ 36-108 EXCAVATIONS TO BE BACKFILLED AND PROPERLY RESTORED.
   All ditches or trenches opened for the purpose of laying pipes for
connection with water or sewer mains, whether on private premises or across
streets, sidewalks or ditches, shall be carefully and compactly closed and
filled after the pipes are laid. All paving disturbed in connection therewith
shall be skillfully and carefully repaired and restored.
§§ 36-109—36-129 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SEWER CONNECTIONS
Section
   
36-130   Required for human habitation
   
36-131   Septic tanks permitted where sewer connections not available
   
36-132   Sewer service outside corporate limits
   36-133—36-162   Reserved
§ 36-130 REQUIRED FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   Before any place of human habitation, commercial use, public assembly
or any similar place intended to be used for such is occupied, the owner or
occupant thereof shall have installed therein adequate facilities for the
disposal of liquid waste and human excreta. No person shall occupy any such
place until the provisions of this article have been complied with.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the occupants or tenants of all places of
human habitation, commercial use or public assembly to maintain all facilities
for the disposal of liquid waste and human excreta in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
   (C)   No owner or occupant of any such premises shall use any privy, septic
tank or cesspool or allow any liquid waste or human excreta to accumulate
thereupon after such connection to the sanitary sewerage system shall have been
made.
   (D)   Not less than 60 days after the installation of a town water or
sanitary sewer line within 250 feet of any residence or building, all said
residences and buildings requiring the same shall be connected thereto for
water and disposal of all sewerage and similar waste originating on said
premises; provided, however, that, septic tanks constructed prior to the
installation of the sewerage system and meeting the requirements of the DHEC
are exempt from the requirements of this section until such time as septic tank
problems develop and connection to the sanitary sewer collector line is deemed
necessary, the public health requiring it, by the Town Council.
   (E)   Upon completion of the construction of water mains and sewage
collector lines, as prescribed in subsection (A) above, and after official
notification to connect thereto, each day such buildings shall not be so
connected shall be deemed a separate offense and punishable as a misdemeanor.
§ 36-131 SEPTIC TANKS PERMITTED WHERE SEWER CONNECTIONS NOT AVAILABLE.
   With the written approval of the Council, where sewerage facilities are not
available, septic tanks may be permitted provided the same are constructed and
maintained as required by the laws, rules and regulations of the state’s Board
of Health.
§ 36-132 SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Applicants for sewer service outside the corporate limits, when required to
so, shall extend sewer lines across property, under streets or public ways to
connect to the sewer tap at their own expense. In such cases, the town reserves
the right to locate the sewer tap in such position or location as deemed in its
own best interest. In most cases, the tap will be located within the sewer line
easement or at the edge of highway right-of-way.
§§ 36-133—36-162 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: SOLID WASTE AND RECOVERY FEES
Section
   
36-163   Definitions
   
36-164   Purpose
   
36-165   Applicability
   
36-166   Prohibited conduct
   
36-167   Recovery fees; for violations
   
36-168   Same; non-payment may result in termination of service
   
36-169   User responsible for fines and costs
   36-170—36-191   Reserved
§ 36-163 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.).
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the town. The
term PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) includes any sewers or lift stations
that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant. For purposes of this
section, the term PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) also includes any
sewers or lift stations that convey wastewater to the POTW from persons outside
the town who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the town’s
POTW.
   SOLID WASTE. Material that would normally be recycled or disposed of in a
land fill. The term SOLID WASTE includes, but is not limited to, glass,
plastic, newsprint, cardboard, cloth, packaging material, food wrappers or
containers, wood or wood by products, leather, rubber or latex.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town’s POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted to enter
the POTW.
§ 36-164 PURPOSE.
   The objectives of this section shall be:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of solid wastes into the wastewater system
which will interfere with the operation of the system; and
   (B)   To provide for the equitable distribution of the cost of the
wastewater system.
§ 36-165 APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply to users in the town and to users outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the town’s publicly
owned treatment works.
§ 36-166 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No user shall contribute, cause to be contributed or fail to prevent the
contribution, directly or indirectly, to the sewerage system any solid waste or
wastewater containing any solid waste which may cause an obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW.
§ 36-167 RECOVERY FEES; FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Any user found to have violated the prohibitions contained in § 36-166 of
this chapter may be assessed a fee to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the town’s POTW. The fee shall be in an amount as established from
time to time by the Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and
charges, available for public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 36-168 SAME; NON-PAYMENT MAY RESULT IN TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   The failure to pay the assessed fee within 60 days of the date of the
“notice of fee due” may result in the discontinuance of water or sewer service.
(Ord. 55, passed 11-9-1998)
§ 36-169 USER RESPONSIBLE FOR FINES AND COSTS.
   The user shall be responsible for any fines from governmental agencies or
others which result from POTW discharge permit violations as a direct result
from illegal or accidental user discharges or introductions. In addition to the
penalties provided in this article, the town may recover reasonable attorneys’
fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees and other expenses of litigation by
appropriate suit at law against any person found to have violated this article.
§§ 36-170—36-191 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: RATES, FEES AND DEPOSITS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
36-192   Schedule of rates and fees established
   
36-193   Qualification for new non-profit fee
   
36-194   Discontinuance of service for non-payment
   
36-195   Water, sewer and garbage fees
   
36-196   Free water or sewer service prohibited
   
36-197   “Permanent-active service” defined
   
36-198   Reactivation fee
   
36-199   Retapping fee
   36-200   Eligibility for in-town rates
   36-201—36-223   Reserved
Division 2. Water Charges
   
36-224   Monthly rates
   
36-225   Meters; required; individual billing accounts
   
36-226   Same; deposits required; refunds
   
36-227   New water connection tapping fee
   36-228—36-247   Reserved
Division 3. Sewer Charges
   
36-248   Monthly rates
   
36-249   New sewer connection tapping fee
   
36-250   Reconnection fee when water not supplied
   
36-251   Non-domestic customer surcharge
   
36-252   Monitoring fee
   36-253—36-282   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 36-192 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND FEES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   the Town Council shall establish a schedule of rates and fees for
services rendered by the water and sewerage systems. Said schedule shall be
reviewed periodically to ensure that it is equitable and fair.
   (B)   The fees shall be in amounts as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 36-193 QUALIFICATION FOR NEW NON-PROFIT FEE.
   In order to qualify for the monthly water fee for eleemosynary
organizations, the organization must be located within the corporate limits of
the town and must present bona fide proof of non-profit status to the Town
Clerk. The burden of proof shall rest upon the organization to prove its non-
profit status. The town shall not presume to know the non-profit status of any
organization.
(Ord. 77, passed 4-24-2000)
§ 36-194 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   Service may be discontinued to any premises for unpaid water and sewer
charges when due and payable as set out in this chapter. Service may be
reinstated as hereinafter provided.
§ 36-195 WATER, SEWER AND GARBAGE FEES.
   (A)   All meters shall be read once a month and bills shall be provided to
customers by the first of each month. All bills are, therefore, payable at the
office of the Town Clerk and Treasurer on or before the fifteenth of the month.
A penalty of 10% shall be added after the fifteenth of the month. If not paid
in full by the twenty-fifth of the month, all services shall be discontinued
until such user shall have paid his or her past due bill and a reconnection
charge.
   (B)   A monthly sewer service charge shall be paid with the water bill by
all users of the sanitary sewerage system, both inside and outside the
corporate limits.
   (C)   Garbage fees shall be collected as a part of the water and sewer bill.
   (D)   The fees shall be in amounts as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 31, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 2019-005, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 36-196 FREE WATER OR SEWER SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to furnish free water or sewer service to any person.
§ 36-197 “PERMANENT-ACTIVE SERVICE” DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, the term PERMANENT-ACTIVE SERVICE means an
uninterrupted, permanent connection between the facilities within a structure
and the town’s water/sewer main and through which no less than 500 gallons per
month has flowed or a minimum monthly charge has been paid.
(Ord. 42, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 36-198 REACTIVATION FEE.
   (A)   A water and sewer reactivation fee shall be required to reactivate
service at any location where there has been no permanent-active water/sewer
service for a period of time exceeding 12 months, but no more than 60 months,
at the location specified when applying for service.
   (B)   The fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 36-199 RETAPPING FEE.
   (A)   A water and sewer retapping fee shall be required at any location
where there has been no permanent-active water/sewer service for a period of
time exceeding 60 months, at the location specified when applying for service.
   (B)   The fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 36-200 ELIGIBILITY FOR IN-TOWN RATES.
   To qualify for the in-town rate for any service the entirety of any improved
parcel must lie within the corporate limits of the town. For any customer
owning, leasing or renting multiple contiguous improved parcels, all parcels
must lie within the corporate limits of the town to be eligible for in-town
rates for services. However, any affected customer may, at their own expense,
provide a percentage breakdown of usage within the corporate limits and outside
the corporate limits as determined by an engineer for consideration by Town
Council in consultation with the town's engineer. Any agreed upon percentages
will be utilized to bill customer based on the current rate schedule.
(Ord. 2023-021, passed 12-4-2023)
§§ 36-201—36-223 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. WATER CHARGES
§ 36-224 MONTHLY RATES.
   (A)   Monthly water rates, inside and outside the corporate limits, are
hereby levied.
   (B)   The rates shall be in amounts as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 36-225 METERS; REQUIRED; INDIVIDUAL BILLING ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All water service shall be metered and computed for each unit for
billing purposes on the amount of water used, both inside and outside the
corporate limits. The term UNIT means a singular place of business or
residence. An owner of existing units, with established individual billing
accounts, currently served by a single meter is responsible for either
installing new meters for each unit or payment of the entire utility bill for
multiple units.
   (B)   Additional units cannot be added to an existing meter without
establishing an individual billing account for each additional unit. This
refers to the creation of facilities such as duplexes, apartments, additional
housing units, places of business and the like. Accounts are established in
conjunction with the installation of a meter for each unit.
(Ord. 100, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 36-226 SAME; DEPOSITS REQUIRED; REFUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   Each new unit obtaining a water connection that is not the unit
owner shall make a deposit to secure the payment of bills to be rendered.
      (2)   Also, proof of ownership may be required.
      (3)   The fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by
the Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available
for public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
   (B)   When permanent service is discontinued, the deposit shall be returned
to the depositor, without interest, after first deducting all outstanding bills
for water and sewer service.
(Ord. 100, passed 12-2-2002)
§ 36-227 NEW WATER CONNECTION TAPPING FEE.
   (A)   For each new water connection, the applicant therefor shall pay a
tapping fee.
   (B)   The fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§§ 36-228—36-247 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. SEWER CHARGES
§ 36-248 MONTHLY RATES.
   (A)   Monthly sewer rates, inside and outside the corporate limits, are
hereby levied.
   (B)   The rates shall be in amounts as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 36-249 NEW SEWER CONNECTION TAPPING FEE.
   (A)   For each new sewer connection, the applicant therefor shall pay a
tapping fee.
   (B)   The fee shall be in an amount as established from time to time by the
Town Council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for
public examination in the Town Clerk’s office.
§ 36-250 RECONNECTION FEE WHEN WATER NOT SUPPLIED.
   When no water is supplied by the town, and a sewer connection is made and
the service charge becomes delinquent, necessitating a discontinuance of
service therefor, the fee to reconnect the service shall be the same as that
charged for water customers.
§ 36-251 NON-DOMESTIC CUSTOMER SURCHARGE.
   Any non-domestic customer that discharges BOD or TSS in excess of 250 mg/
l or oil and grease in excess of 100 mg/l will be assessed a surcharge of 25%
of the total sewer charges or a surcharge of 50% if the BOD or TSS of the
discharge is 500 mg/l or more or oil and grease is 200 mg/l or more. The
threshold for surcharging shall be based on any single incident of a discharge
in excess of the limits. Only one surcharge per month shall apply and it shall
be based on the highest detected discharge in excess of the limits.
§ 36-252 MONITORING FEE.
   Any facility that the town is required to monitor will be assessed a fee for
such monitoring to equal the estimated cost of same.
§§ 36-253—36-282 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: PRETREATMENT
Section
   
36-283   Ord. 28 retained
   36-284—36-314   Reserved
§ 36-283 ORD. 28 RETAINED.
   The provisions of the town’s pretreatment ordinance (Ord. 28, adopted 10-14-
1996) are not repealed. The provisions thereof shall remain in full force and
effect until amended by the Town Council.
Editor’s note:
   On 10-14-1996, the Town Council adopted a pretreatment ordinance (Ord. 28),
as mandated by the DHEC. It established uniform regulations for wastewater
pretreatment for the town’s sewerage system and its related functions including
procedures, regulations, monitoring and industrial discharges. Due to the
technical nature of that ordinance, it has not been codified into this code,
per se. For further reference, the reader is directed to the Town Clerk who
retains a copy of the ordinance in the town’s permanent files.
§§ 36-284—36-314 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: SEWER USE
Section
   
36-315   Ord. 96-2 retained
§ 36-315 ORD. 96-2 RETAINED.
   The provisions of Ord. 96-2 (Ord. 27), entitled “Sewer Use Ordinance”,
adopted 10-14-1996, are not repealed. The provisions thereof shall remain in
full force and effect until amended by the Town Council.
Editor’s note:
   On 4-15-1985, the Town Council adopted Sewer Use Ord. 85-11, which set forth
uniform requirements for direct and indirect contributions into the wastewater
collection and treatment systems for the town which enabled the town to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of
1977 and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403). On 10-14-
1996, the ordinance was redrafted in its entirety, to bring it into compliance
with the DHEC regulations. Due to the technical nature of that ordinance, it
has not been codified into this code, per se. For further reference, the reader
is directed to the Town Clerk who retains a copy of the ordinance in the town’s
permanent files.
APPENDIX A: SAMPLE ORDINANCE FORM
   APPENDIX A: SAMPLE ORDINANCE FORM
Editor’s note:
   Printed in this appendix is a sample ordinance that illustrates one way of
amending this code.
    The amended section has been chosen arbitrarily, as an example only, and it
is not to be considered as official action. On the following pages, additional
suggestions are listed for the guidance and convenience of municipal officials
when ordinances are to be considered.
    All ordinances are required, by this code, to be numbered. They should
either be an amendment to this code, or a new section/chapter to be added.
 
ORDINANCE NO.            
AN ORDINANCE ENTITLED
CHANGE IN TIME OF REGULAR COUNCIL MEETINGS
 
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF KERSHAW, SOUTH CAROLINA:
 
SECTION 1.   Section 2-201 of the Town Code is hereby amended by rescinding the time authorized for regular Council meetings (7:00
p.m.) and inserting in lieu thereof “1:30 p.m.,” so that when amended the time for regularly scheduled meetings of Council shall be
1:30 p.m. (THIS IS SAMPLE WORDING ONLY)
 
SECTION 2.   All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, in conflict herewith are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
(THIS PARAGRAPH CANCELS ANY CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.)
 
SECTION 3.   Any chapter, article, section or subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (THIS PARAGRAPH LIMITS ANY RULING BY THE COURTS TO THE SPECIFIC SECTION TO WHICH THE RULING APPLIED.)
 
SECTION 4.   This ordinance shall become effective upon its final adoption. (ALL ORDINANCES MUST HAVE AN EFFECTIVE DATE.)
 
 
                                                                                                  
First Reading               Mayor
 
                                                                                                        
Second Reading            Mayor Pro Tempore
 
ATTEST:                                                            
               Council Member
 
                                                                                                        
Clerk/Treasurer            Council Member
 
AS TO FORM:                                                            
                  Council Member
 
                                                                                                        
Town Attorney               Council Member
 
                                                   
Council Member
 
 
(ALL ORDINANCES MUST HAVE TWO READINGS, AT LEAST SIX DAYS APART, AND MUST BE
SIGNED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL AND ATTESTED BY THE MUNICIPAL CLERK.)
ADDITIONAL NOTES TO BE USED AS GUIDANCE FOR AMENDMENTS TO THIS CODE:
   (1)   Some municipalities prefer to repeal the entire amended section and
have it retyped in its entirety to avoid future confusion or misunderstanding
as to the intent of Council. Others prefer the shortversion, as above. This is
especially true if the amended section is lengthy. Either way is local choice.
   (2)   If a date other than that of second reading isto be the effective
date, it should be inserted accordingly as a part of section 3 (of the sample
ordinance) or the appropriate section number in the amending ordinance.
Example: “effective on December 1, 1999".
   (3)   More space than that shown in the sample ordinance can be utilized
between sections, the date of readings and the signatures of the Mayor and
Clerk/Treasurer to space it more aesthetically on the page.
   (4)   Upon adoption of the ordinance, the original copy, with signatures,
should be placed in the book of ordinances (as discussed in § 
2-68 of this code).
   (5)   Also upon adoption, the official copy of this code should be amended
accordingly and copies reproduced and distributed to the holders of this code
and inserted in any extra copies which have not been distributed, to keep all
copies current. The Clerk/Treasurer should retain a list of all persons to whom
a code has been distributed so that they may receive copies of future
amendments. Such amendments are called supplements.
   (6)   When this code is amended, each change should be noted by a supplement
number and date at the bottom of the amended page, lefthand corner, to denote
the change. Example: Supplement #1. 8-5-2000; Supplement #2. 10-1-2000; etc.
   (7)   Such changes should be noted also in the general table of contents,
chapter table of contents and the index, as appropriate. Maintaining a
chronological list of all supplements in the book of ordinances by date of
supplement will prove helpful for future reference.
   (8)   For emergency ordinances, see § 
2-71 of this code.
   (9)   Amending or repealing ordinances should be noted on the original copy
of the ordinance repealed or amended, as required by law and as codified in § 
2-69 of this code.
   (10)   As to updating this code, some municipalities prefer to do so as
amendments are made; others prefer doing so on a quarterly, semiannual or
annual basis. This code requires, at a minimum, an annual update. If a
different updating schedule is preferred, the requirement should be amended
accordingly. (See § 
2-64 of this code.)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Cites Code Section
S.C. Code Cites          Code Section
Art. 4, Ch. 31, Title 23 26-190
Ch. 5, Title 6           12-4
4-9-10 et seq.           26-386
4-9-25                   26-386
5-3-150                  36-76
5-7-10 et seq.           20-3
                         Ch. 2, Art. I;
                         2-7;
                         Ch. 22, Art. II;
5-7-30                   Ch. 24, Art. I; 26-28;
                         Ch. 26, Art. III;
                         Ch. 32, Art. I;
                         34-3
5-7-30 et seq.           Ch. 30, Art. I
                         Ch. 22, Art. II;
5-7-80                   Ch. 22, Art. IV;
                         30-54
5-7-90                   Ch. 14, Art. I
5-7-110                  24-23
5-7-120                  24-29
5-7-160                  Ch. 2, Art. I;
                         2-108
5-7-170                  2-33
5-7-190                  2-34;
                         2-105
5-7-220                  Ch. 2, Art. VIII
5-7-230                  Ch. 2, Art. IX
5-7-240                  2-460
5-7-250                  Ch. 2, Art. IV
5-7-250(d)               2-71
5-7-260                  2-63
5-7-270                  2-66;
                         2-70
5-7-280                  2-2
5-7-290                  2-64;
                         2-68
5-7-300                  Ch. 32, Art. I;
                         32-3
5-11-20                  Ch. 2, Art. I;
                         1-5
5-11-40                  2-273;
                         Ch. 2, Art. VII
5-11-40(c)               2-417;
                         2-429
5-15-20                  2-31
5-15-40                  2-32
5-15-150                 2-36
5-17-10 et seq.          2-67
5-21-110                 Ch. 32, Art. I
5-25-20                  Ch. 18, Art. I
5-25-110                 Ch. 18, Art. I
5-25-120                 18-49
5-25-160                 18-10
5-25-170                 18-10
5-25-310                 Ch. 8, Art. I
5-25-310 et seq.         20-3
5-25-370                 18-7
5-25-410                 18-9
5-25-420                 18-9
5-25-610 et seq.         20-3
5-27-10 et seq.          Ch. 30, Art. I
5-31-250                 Ch. 36, Art. I
5-31-900                 Ch. 36, Art. I
6-1-80                   2-421
6-5-10 et seq.           12-4
6-7-10 et seq.           20-3
6-9-5                    Ch. 8, Art. II
6-9-10                   Ch. 8, Art. II
6-9-50                   Ch. 8, Art. II
6-9-60                   Ch. 8, Art. II
6-29-310 et seq.         13-1
8-13-700                 2-113
10-1-165                 30-4
11-35-50                 Ch. 2, Art. XI
12-21-2720(A)(3)         10-24
12-43-230                32-27
12-56-10 et seq.         2-6
14-1-150                 2-109
14-25-5 et seq.          Ch. 14, Art. I
14-25-15                 2-36
14-25-65                 1-7
15-43-10                 26-130
16-1-40                  26-360
16-3-1010                26-265
16-3-1020                26-266
16-5-120                 26-164
16-11-510                26-218
16-11-520                26-218
16-11-620                26-219
16-11-680                26-230
16-13-30                 26-220
16-13-110                26-226
16-13-160                26-228
16-13-180                26-221
16-13-240                26-223
16-13-260                26-223
16-13-290                26-225
16-13-340                26-233
16-15-90                 26-127
16-15-90(6)              26-58
16-15-90(9)              26-128
16-17-420                26-66
16-17-520                26-163
16-17-530                26-65;
                         26-160
16-17-570                18-73
16-19-40                 26-97
16-19-120                26-98
16-23-20                 26-188
16-23-410                26-189
23-9-310 et seq.         18-109
23-24-10                 24-51
23-31-520                26-190
23-35-45                 18-13
23-35-60                 18-13
27-21-20 et seq.         24-28
30-4-10                  2-103;
                         2-104
30-4-10 et seq.          2-116
30-4-10 through 30-4-165 16-29
30-4-60                  2-116
30-4-70                  2-116
30-4-80                  Ch. 2, Art. IV
30-4-90                  2-107
34-11-10 et seq.         26-229
40-59-280                8-29
44-55-210                22-216
47-3-20                  Ch. 6, Art. I
47-7-10 et seq.          Ch. 6, Art. III
47-9-10 et seq.          Ch. 6, Art. III
49-23-10 et seq.         Ch. 16, Art. III
51-15-20 et seq.         Ch. 28, Art. II
56-1-20 et seq.          34-6
56-3-110 et seq.         34-6
56-5-10 et seq.          34-2
56-5-30                  Ch. 34, Art. I
56-5-710                 Ch. 34, Art. I;
                         34-139
56-5-760                 Ch. 18, Art. I
56-5-940                 34-3
56-5-1210 et seq.        34-41
56-5-1540                34-5
56-5-1890                34-38
56-5-1960                18-76
56-5-2530                18-75;
                         30-3
56-5-2930                34-111
56-5-3110 et seq.        Ch. 34, Art. VII
56-5-3410 et seq.        Ch. 34, Art. VI
56-5-3850                18-78
56-5-5810 et seq.        Ch. 34, Art. V
56-5-6150                Ch. 14, Art. I
56-7-80                  26-400
57-3-110(11)             26-159
57-7-20                  30-35
58-17-10 et seq.         Ch. 34, Art. VIII
61-4-10 et seq.          Ch. 26, Art. II
61-4-120                 26-23
61-6-1600 et seq.        Ch. 26, Art. II
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
30       5-12-1997   36-105
31       6-9-1997    36-195
42       3-9-1998    36-197
44       3-9-1998    2-31
47       5-11-1998   34-233 
                     34-235
52       8-10-1998   2-508
55       11-9-1998   36-168
58       2-8-1999    30-52
73       4-24-2000   26-229
76       4-24-2000   2-275;
                     2-318
77       4-24-2000   36-193
85       11-13-2000  24-2
92       6-4-2002    36-69;
                     36-70
96       8-5-2002    16-56
98       10-8-2002   36-3
100      12-2-2002   36-225;
                     36-226
                     20-1 
                     20-10;
                     20-41 
                     20-44;
                     20-62 
102      2-3-2003    20-67;
                     20-93 
                     20-96;
                     20-121 
                     20-128;
                     20-155;
                     20-156
107      5-3-2004    32-4
115      9-12-2005   2-32
129      4-23-2009   2-101
148      10-15-2012  22-80
152      3-18-2013   26-386 
                     26-400
159      8-18-2014   2-205
161      3-16-2015   13-1
162      3-16-2015   2-245
164      5-18-2015   2-495 
                     2-497
166      9-21-2015   30-160
171      6-20-2016   36-74
172      6-20-2016   23-1 
                     23-3
173      6-20-2016   30-4
176      9-19-2016   36-77
177      11-21-2016  36-78
6-5      9-24-2018   6-5
193      9-24-2018   2-6
2019-001 3-18-2019   22-92
2019-002 5-30-2019   18-13
2019-005 6-17-2019   36-195
2019-006 8-19-2019   26-387
2019-007 8-19-2019   8-100 
                     8-104
2019-009 10-21-2019  36-75;
                     36-76
2020-001 2-17-2020   34-39;
                     34-42
2020-02  - -2020     2-7
2020-013 11-16-2020  26-189
                     12-1 
                     12-6;
2021-003 3-15-2021   12-31;
                     12-32;
                     12-34;
                     12-35
2021-005 4-19-2021   2-33
2021-010 10-18-2021  10-1
2021-011 11-15-2021  34-43
2021-12  12-14-2021  26-190
2022-001 2-21-2022   12-5
2022-006 10-17-2022  34-178
2022-007 10-17-2022  34-179
2023-004 4-6-2023    10-1
2023-008 7-17-2023   36-75;
                     36-79
2023-009 7-17-2023   36-6
2023-010 8-21-2023   22-91
2023-011 9-18-2023   22-88;
                     22-111
2023-012 9-18-2023   10-1
2023-015 9-18-2023   18-107
2023-016 9-18-2023   8-6
2023-020 11-20-2023  16-5
2023-021 12-4-2023   36-200
2023-029 1-8-2024    2-101
2024-008 4-15-2024   4-23
2024-009 4-15-2024   36-69
2024-011 6-17-2024   6-1
2024-013 7-15-2024   22-140
2024-015 8-19-2024   6-49
2024-034 10-21-2024  2-33
2024-037 11-18-2024  6-49
                    
 
 
 
