PENDLETON, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-23 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through Ordinance 24-15, passed 11-5-24
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 96-05
"An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Pendleton".
      WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1996 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Pendleton, which supplement contains all Ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the South Carolina Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of South Carolina;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Pendleton,
State of South Carolina:
   SECTION 1. That the 1996 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Pendleton, South Carolina, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
      INTRODUCED in Council duly assembled the 9th day of July, 1996.
      ENACTED AND ORDAINED into an Ordinance at Second and Final Reading the
13th day of August, 1996.
                           Mayor - Buddy Durham
      COUNCIL:                  Ward 1 - Betty L. McAlister
                           Ward 2 - Carol E. Burdette
                           Ward 3 - Robert H. Thompson
                           Ward 4 - Frank H. Crenshaw
Attest: Nan Josey
Clerk
 
ORDINANCE NO. 97-04
"An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Pendleton".
      WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Political Subdivision ; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of SC; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this Ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF PENDLETON:
   SECTION 1. That the supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the municipality,and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
      INTRODUCED in Council duly assembled the 13th day of May, 1997.
      ENACTED AND ORDAINED into an Ordinance at Second and Final Reading the
9th day of June, 1997.
                           Mayor - Buddy Durham
      COUNCIL:                  Ward 1 - Betty L. McAlister
                           Ward 2 - Carol E. Burdette
                           Ward 3 - Robert H. Thompson
                           Ward 4 - Frank H. Crenshaw
Attest: Amber L. Lloyd
Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 98-05
"An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Pendleton".
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1999 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision ; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the SC code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of SC;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF PENDLETON, SC:
   SECTION 1. That the 1998 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this 9th day of June, 1998.
Attest: Amber L. Lloyd
ORDINANCE NO. 06-10
"An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances for
the
Town of Pendleton, SC and Declaring an Emergency"
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinance of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the SC code; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF PENDLETON, SC:
   SECTION 1. That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this 7th day of August, 2006.
Attest:    Amber L. Barnes /s/
      Municipal Clerk
               MAYOR:                                                       
                        COUNCIL
               WARD 1:                                                       
               WARD 2:                                                       
 
               WARD 3:                                                       
               WARD 4:                                                       
ORDINANCE NO. 13-07
"An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances for
the
Town of Pendleton, SC and Declaring an Emergency".
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2013 S-12 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF PENDLETON, SC:
   SECTION 1. That the 2013 S-12 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and is attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this 3rd day of September, 2013.
Attest:    Amber L. Barnes /s/
      Municipal Clerk
               MAYOR:                                                       
                        COUNCIL
               WARD 1:                                                       
               WARD 2:                                                       
               WARD 3:                                                       
               WARD 4:                                                       
ORDINANCE NO. 20-12
"An Ordinance Enacting and Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances for
the Town of Pendleton, SC and Declaring an Emergency".
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF PENDLETON, SC:
   SECTION 1. That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and available on the Town of Pendleton’s website at
www.townofpendleton.org, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this 5th day of October, 2020.
Attest:    Amber L. Barnes /s/
      Municipal Clerk
            MAYOR:    /s/
                  COUNCIL
            WARD 1:    /s/
            WARD 2:    /s/
            WARD 3:    /s/
            WARD 4:    /s/
CHARTER
THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA
BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE
         WHEREAS, The Town of Pendleton, State of South Carolina, heretofore
incorporated, is desirous of surrendering its Charter, and accepting
incorporation under the provisions of Article 4, Chapter LI Section 4562, of
the Code of 1922, Volume 3,
         AND WHEREAS, the Town Council of said Town has submitted the question
to a vote of the qualified electors, and has certified the result accompanied
by the sworn return of the Managers of said election, by which it appears that
the vote was in favor of surrendering the Charter and accepting incorporation
under said Article 4, Chapter LI, Section 4562 of the Code of 1922, Volume 3.
         NOW, I, W. P. Blackwell, Secretary of State, by virtue of the
authority in me vested by the laws of the State of South Carolina, do hereby
certify that the Town of Pendleton is duly incorporated with the privileges,
powers, and immunities, and subject to the limitations prescribed in said
Chapter LI, Volume 3, Code of 1922, Article 4, Section 4562, and amendments
thereto.
                                 Given under my hand and the Great
                                 Seal of the State, at Columbia, this the
                                 29th day of May, A.D., 1929.
                                    W. P. Blackwell /s/
            [Seal]
                                    Secretary of State
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Pendleton
shall be designated as the Code of Pendleton and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES or THIS CODE. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Anderson County, South Carolina.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, DEPART- MENT, or COMMISSION. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, desig- nated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Pendleton, South
Carolina.
   WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,“ if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 60-5,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 70-1, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 80-1, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 85-1, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (S.C. Code § 16-11-700) (Ord. 80-1, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 85-1,
passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless other- wise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see S.C.
Code §§ 30-1-10 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 81-05, passed 4-27-81)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty under state law, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
32.   COMMISSIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Mayor-Council form of government
   
30.02   Rules of order
   
30.03   Uniform summons adopted by reference
§ 30.01 MAYOR-COUNCIL FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The Mayor-Council form of municipal government, with a Mayor and four
Councilmen with election at large and two-year terms of office as provided in
S.C. Code §§ 47-60 through 47-63 is adopted for the town to be effective on
July 1, 1976, or as soon thereafter as prescribed by state law.
(Ord. 77-01, passed 2-9-76)
§ 30.02 RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Meetings of Council.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the first Tuesday
of each month unless changed by a majority vote of members present at any
regular or special meeting.
      (2)   Special meetings of the Council may be held on the call of the
Mayor, or a majority of the members present at any regular or special meeting
may also call a special meeting of the Council. Notice of a special meeting
shall be given immediately to all available members and the news media by the
Municipal Clerk.
      (3)   All regular and special meetings of the Council shall be open to
the public.
   (B)   Conference sessions.
      (1)   Town Council may have conference meetings as permitted by the South
Carolina Freedom of Information Act and the Town Code at such times and in such
places as may be deemed necessary and in the public interest by the Mayor or
any member of the Council.
      (2)   No formal vote shall be taken upon any matter under discussion at
any such conference. Still, informal polling of the Council may be made if
desired by any member of the Council.
      (3)   The Municipal Clerk may, if time permits, give notice to the news
media that a conference meeting will be held pursuant to law without stating
the specific matters to be discussed. When advance notice is not given, the
Municipal Clerk may provide notice of such meeting after it has been held.
      (4)   No vote of Council shall be necessary to call a conference meeting.
   (C)   Agenda. Matters to be considered by Council at a regular or special
meeting shall be placed on a written agenda publicly posted by the Municipal
Clerk at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. The deadline for agenda item
requests is noon Wednesday, prior to the regular monthly meeting. Agenda
packets to the Council will be delivered on Thursday prior to the regular
monthly meetings. Items shall be listed on the agenda in the order specified by
the Mayor.
   (D)   Quorum and rules of order. A majority of the Council members serving
constitutes a quorum for the conduct of business at any meeting. The Mayor or
Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside, except that, when both are absent, the senior
Council member present (longest term of office) shall preside. Except as
otherwise required by state law or ordinance, all proceedings of Council shall
be governed by Roberts Rules of Order, as amended, and the Mayor shall act as a
parliamentarian. The Mayor shall decide questions of order without debate,
subject to appeal to the Council.
   (E)   Voting requirements.
      (1)   All actions of the Council shall be by a majority vote of members
present at a public meeting. No proxy, mail, or facsimile vote may be cast.
      (2)   Every member of the Council present, including the Mayor or
presiding member, shall vote on every question except when required to refrain
from voting by state law.
      (3)   A roll call vote may be required by any member of the Council.
      (4)   The vote on every question shall be recorded in the minutes.
      (5)   No member of the Council may leave the Council Chamber while in
public session without permission of the presiding officer.
   (F)   Minutes of meetings. The Municipal Clerk shall keep the minutes of all
public meetings of the Council, which shall be a matter of permanent public
record. At each Council meeting, the minutes of the previous meeting shall be
presented for approval. Minutes shall not be considered the official record of
a meeting until approved by the Council. A member of the Council may place a
written expression of position on a matter in the minutes not later than the
next regular meeting.
   (G)   Appearance of citizens. Any resident, property owner, or anyone
maintaining a current business license of the municipality may speak at a
regular meeting on a matter pertaining to municipal services and operations,
except personnel matters. Any resident, property owner, or anyone maintaining a
current business license may speak at a time designated by the Mayor and may be
limited to a three-minute presentation at the discretion of the Mayor.
   (H)   Municipal Clerk to attend. The Municipal Clerk shall be ex officio
clerk of the Town Council. The Municipal Clerk shall give notices of meetings,
post the agenda, attend regular and special meetings, record votes of Council,
keep minutes of Council meetings and perform such other duties as may be
assigned.
   (I)   Hearings by committees. The Council may appoint a special committee to
assist in or hold a public hearing for the Council at any time upon any matter
pending before it. Minutes or reports of hearings held by special committees
shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk as public records.
   (J)   (1)   Ordinances required. The Council shall act by ordinance in all
matters required by law to be done by ordinance, including:
         (a)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or ordinance, establish,
alter, or abolish any municipal department, office or agency;
         (b)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
         (c)   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
         (d)   Grant, renew, or extend franchises, licenses, or rights in
public streets or public property, and close abandoned streets after public
newspaper notice and public hearing;
         (e)   Authorize the borrowing of money or the issuance of bonds;
         (f)   Levy taxes, assess property for improvements or establish
charges for services,;
         (g)   Annex area to the municipality;
         (h)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any
lands of the municipality; and
         (i)   Amend or repeal any ordinance.
      (2)   In all other matters Council may act either by ordinance or
resolution, written or oral, recorded in the minutes.
   (K)   (1)   Form of ordinances and resolutions. Every proposed ordinance
shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption,
which shall include:
         (a)   A title briefly describing the content;
         (b)   Findings, reasons, or basis for the ordinance, if desired and
appropriate;
         (c)   An enacting clause;
         (d)   Citation of any ordinance repealed;
         (e)   The provisions of the ordinance, including section numbers if
the ordinance is to be codified or amends an existing codified ordinance;
         (f)   The effective date of the ordinance;
         (g)   The name of the person requesting the introduction of the
ordinance;
         (h)   The assignment of the ordinance number; and
         (i)    Space for the signatures of the Mayor or presiding members of
Council and the Municipal Clerk attesting notice, if required, and adoption.
      (2)   Written resolutions shall be in such similar form as deemed
appropriate by the Town Attorney.
   (L)   Introduction of ordinance. Any member of the Council may propose an
ordinance. A proposed ordinance shall be referred to the Town Attorney for
approval as to form. The Town Attorney shall render assistance in the
preparation of notices and ordinances. After an ordinance is in proper form and
required notices have been given, the Town Attorney shall send the ordinance to
the Municipal Clerk to be held for public inspection. An ordinance shall be
deemed to be introduced when it appears on an agenda for a public meeting of
the Council, and its title is read.
   (M)   Introduction of resolution. A voice motion of a Council member shall
be considered to be the introduction of an oral resolution which shall require
no written record other than a notation of the Municipal Clerk in the Council
minutes. A resolution proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same
manner as an ordinance.
   (N)   Enactment of ordinances.
      (1)   An ordinance to levy a tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds,
grant a franchise, license or right to use or occupy a public street or public
property for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is
finally passed, and in such form remain on file with the Municipal Clerk for
public inspection at least one week before final adoption.
      (2)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read two
times and on two separate days with at least six days between each reading.
      (3)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on one reading without notice
or hearing by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of members present. An
emergency ordinance expires automatically on the sixty-first day following
enactment.
      (4)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance shall be by the
reading of the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of the
Council.
      (5)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any member of the Council
may request a public hearing which may be held if approved by a majority of the
Council present and set for a time prior to final adoption of the ordinance. A
public hearing may be held on the same date as the final reading.
      (6)   Any ordinance may be amended on final reading.
      (7)   Upon final adoption by a vote of the Council, an ordinance shall be
signed by the Mayor or presiding member and attested by the Municipal Clerk,
who shall file the original in the Council minutes in the permanent public
records.
   (O)   Adoption of resolutions. Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on
one reading unless a public hearing is set by a majority of the members of the
Council present.
   (P)   Codification of ordinances. All ordinances relating to administration,
health, safety, vehicles, streets (except franchises and encroachments),
traffic, railroads, crimes and offenses, utilities, solicitations, pollution,
municipal court, descriptions of areas annexed to the town, and any other
ordinances or portions of ordinances so required by the Council shall be
codified and updated annually in a loose-leaf Code of Ordinance. Standard
codes, technical regulations, and zoning ordinances may be cited in the code by
reference, and copies thereof shall be made available for public inspection by
the Municipal Clerk and distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
   (Q)   Validity. Should any section or provision of this section be declared
by the courts to be invalid, said declaration shall not affect the validity of
the section as a whole or any other part thereof, other than the part so
declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 77-02, passed - -77; Am. Ord. 78-02, passed 6-26-78; Am. Ord. 79-02,
passed 4-9-79; Am. Ord. 85-01, passed 1-14-85; Am. Ord. 85-02, passed 1-14-85;
Am. Ord. 06-04, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 22-20, passed 11-7-22)
§ 30.03 UNIFORM SUMMONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   S.C. Code § 56-7-80, allowing municipal law enforcement officers or code
enforcement officers the ability to use an ordinance summons, is adopted as if
fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 92-12, passed 11-10-92)
CHAPTER 31: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
31.01   Municipal Court established
   
31.02   Judges
   
31.03   Clerk
   
31.04   Jurisdiction
   
31.05   Sentencing
   
31.06   Fines and penalties
   
31.07   Appeals
   
31.08   Jury trial
   
31.09   Recorder
§ 31.01 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Municipal Court for the town, which shall be a part
of the unified judicial system of the state, pursuant to Act 480 of 1980, being
S.C. Code §§ 14-25-5 et seq., for the trial and determination of all cases
within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
§ 31.02 JUDGES.
   The Court shall be presided over by one or more full-time or part-time
judges, at the discretion of Council. The municipal judge(s) shall be appointed
by Council for a term fixed by Council not to exceed four years, or who shall
serve at the pleasure of Council. The compensation of the municipal judge(s)
shall be as from time to time may be determined by Council. Vacancies shall be
filled in accordance with S.C. Code § 14-25-25.
(Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
§ 31.03 CLERK.
   The Council shall designate a Clerk of Municipal Court, who shall keep such
records and make such reports as may be required by the Municipal Judge or the
State Court Administrator. Council may designate the Town Clerk or other
municipal employee to serve as Clerk of the Court.
(Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
§ 31.04 JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to try all cases arising under
the laws of the town. The Court shall also have all such powers, duties, and
jurisdiction in criminal cases made under state law and conferred upon
magistrates. The Court shall have the power to punish for contempt of court by
imposition of sentences up to the limits imposed on municipal courts. The Court
shall have no jurisdiction in civil matters.
(S.C. Code § 14-24-45) (Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
§ 31.05 SENTENCING.
   (A)   Whenever the Municipal Judge finds a party guilty of violating a
municipal regulation of a state law within the jurisdiction of the court, the
Judge may impose a fine or imprisonment, or both, not to exceed $500 or 30
days.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge may suspend sentences imposed by him or her upon
such terms and conditions as the Judge deems proper including, without
limitation, restitution or public service employment.
(S.C. Code §§ 14-25-65 and 14-25-75) (Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
§ 31.06 FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fines and penalties collected by the Municipal Court shall be forthwith
turned over to the Clerk for deposit to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
§ 31.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any party shall have the right to appeal from the sentence or
judgement of the Municipal Court to the Court of General Sessions. Notice of
intention to appeal, setting forth the grounds for appeal, shall be given in
writing and served on the Municipal Judge or the Clerk of the Municipal Court
within ten days after sentence is passed or judgement rendered, or the appeal
shall be deemed waived. The party appealing shall enter into a bond, payable to
the town to appear and defend such appeal at the next term of the Court of
General Sessions or shall pay the fine assessed.
   (B)   In the event of an appeal, the municipal judge shall make a return to
the Court of General Sessions as provided by S.C. Code § 14-25-105.
(S.C. Code §§ 14-25-95 and 14-25-105) (Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
§ 31.08 JURY TRIAL.
   (A)   Any person to be tried in the Municipal Court may, prior to trial,
demand a jury trial, and the jury, when demanded, shall be composed of six
persons drawn from the qualified electors of the municipality in the manner
prescribed by law. The right to a jury trial shall be deemed to have been
waived unless demand is made prior to trial.
   (B)   The Town Council shall serve as jury commissioners for the Municipal
Court.
(S.C. Code § 14-25-125) (Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
Statutory reference:
   Council may act as jury commissioners, see S.C. Code § 14-25-135
   Selection of jury, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-155 through 14-25-185
§ 31.09 RECORDER.
   There is established the office of Ministerial Recorder. Ministerial
recorders shall be elected from time to time by Council, and shall serve at its
pleasure or until the office is vacated when employment with the municipality
is terminated. Ministerial recorders shall perform the powers provided by law,
and shall be subject to the supervision of the Municipal Judge. Ministerial
recorders shall not be law enforcement officers.
(Ord. 80-09, passed 12-29-80)
CHAPTER 32: COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Membership
   
32.02   Organization
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Additional powers
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members to be appointed by
the Town Council. The terms of office of the members shall be for four years,
except that, of the seven members first appointed, two shall be appointed for a
term of one year, two for two years, two for three years, and one for four
years. Any vacancy in Commission membership shall be filled for the unexpired
term by the members of Council who shall also have the authority to remove any
Commission member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All
members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual
expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. 78-03, passed 8-7-78)
§ 32.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from
among its members. The term of the Chairman and other officers shall be one
year with eligibility for re-election. The Commission shall appoint a secretary
who may be an officer or an employee of the governing authority or of the
Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business
and shall keep a record of its recommendations, transactions, findings, and
determinations, and shall meet at the call of the Chairman and at such times as
the Chairman or the Commission may determine. All meetings of the Commission at
which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of
the Commission shall be public records. The Commission may appoint such
employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may make
expenditures for salaries of any employees and staff, contracts with
consultants, and for the purchase of required equipment and supplies. The
expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts
appropriated for said purpose by the Town Council.
(Ord. 78-03, passed 8-7-78)
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   From and after the time when the Planning Commission shall have
organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of
procedure, then the Commission shall have all the powers, duties, and
responsibilities set forth in Act 487, State Acts of 1967, as amended.
   (B)   In general, the powers of the Commission include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   To prepare and revise periodically a comprehensive plan and program
for the development of its jurisdiction, such document to carry the title of
“Pendleton Land Use Plan,” “Pendleton Comprehensive Plan,” or similar title.
      (2)   To prepare and recommend for adoption to the appropriate governing
authority or authorities as a means for implementing the plan and program:
         (a)   Zoning ordinances or resolutions, and maps and appropriate
revisions thereof for its jurisdiction.
         (b)   Regulations for the subdivision of land and appropriate
revisions thereof within its jurisdiction, and to administer the regulations
that may be adopted.
         (c)   An official map and appropriate revisions thereof showing the
exact location of existing or proposed public streets and highways, rights-of-
way of highways and utilities, and public building sites, together with
regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures or changes
in land use within such streets, highways, rights-of- ways, building sites, or
open spaces within its political jurisdiction or a specified portion thereof.
         (d)   A capital program for its jurisdiction based on the
comprehensive plan and the capital improvements necessary to implement the
plan. Such a capital program shall include an annual capital budget based on
estimates of the cost of proposed projects and the means of financing them. The
Commission shall submit the capital program, including the capital budget, to
the governing authority or authorities as directed by the authority or
authorities.
      (3)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area.
      (4)   To prepare and recommend to the Town Council for adoption,
ordinances promoting orderly development in accordance with the comprehensive
plan, other than those previously mentioned.
      (5)   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area.
      (6)   To review and recommend to the Town Council any needed changes in
the zoning ordinance and the map of the town, as well as the subdivision
regulations, official maps, and other codes, ordinances, and controls related
to the municipality’s development.
      (7)   To keep the Town Council and the general public informed as to the
matters described above.
(Ord. 78-03, passed 8-7-78)
§ 32.04 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   Additional powers of the Planning Commission include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following: “The Commission may make, publish, and
distribute maps, plans, and reports and recommendations relating to the plan
and program and the development of its political jurisdiction to public
officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional and other organizations and citizens. All public officials shall,
upon request, furnish to the Commission, within a reasonable time, such
available information as it may require for its work. The Commission, its
members and employees, in the performance of its functions, may enter upon any
land within its political jurisdiction, make examinations and surveys and place
and maintain necessary marks and monuments thereon; provided, however, that the
Commission shall be liable for any injury or damage to property resulting
therefrom. In general, the Commission shall have such powers as may be
necessary to enable it to perform its functions and to promote the planning of
its political jurisdiction.”
(Ord. 78-03, passed 8-7-78)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Election method
   
33.02   Terms of office
   
33.03   Nonpartisan election procedure
   
33.04   Election Commission
   
33.05   Regular election dates and notice
   
33.06   Filing by petition
   
33.07   Filing fees
   
33.08   Time of taking office
   
33.10   Authority to conduct elections
§ 33.01 ELECTION METHOD.
   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-20, the Mayor and Councilmembers shall be
elected from the municipality at large.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 17-05,
passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.02 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The office of the Mayor shall be for the term of four years.
   (B)   The office of Council shall be for the term of four years staggered.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 17-05,
passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.03 NONPARTISAN ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   All regular and special elections for Mayor and Councilmembers should be
conducted and results will be determined in accordance with the nonpartisan
plurality method authorized by S.C. Code § 5-15-61.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 17-05,
passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.04 ELECTION COMMISSION.
   All regular and special elections shall be conducted by a Municipal Election
Commission composed of three electors who shall be residents of the town
appointed by the Town Council for terms of six years, staggered so that the
terms of one member expires each odd-numbered year at least 90 days prior to
the regular election. The Election Commission shall have the powers and duties
specified in S.C. Code § 5-15-100 and applicable provisions of S.C. Code Title
7.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 17-05,
passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.05 REGULAR ELECTION DATES AND NOTICE.
   (A)   Regular elections for the offices of Mayor and members of Council
shall be held in odd- numbered years on the first Tuesday in November. If the
election procedure selected allows for a run-off, the following provision
should be added: a run-off election, if necessary, shall be held two weeks
following the election.
   (B)   In the event of a tie vote for any office, a run-off election shall be
held two weeks following the election pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-125. Special
elections to fill vacancies shall be held pursuant to S.C. Code § 7-13-190. Two
public notices of a regular or special election shall be given, which shall
include the location of polling places set by resolution of Council. The first
notice shall be given at least 90 days prior to the election. The second notice
shall be given no later than two weeks after the first notice.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 11-07,
passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 17-05, passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.06 FILING BY PETITION.
   (A)   People wishing to qualify by petition must file their petition along
with their Statement of Economic Interest with the Town Clerk by the 75th day
before the scheduled election.
   (B)   No political affiliation shall be placed on the ballot for any
candidate.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 11-07,
passed 5-3-11; Am. Ord. 17-05, passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.07 FILING FEES.
   (A)   The filing fee for the office of Mayor shall be $25.
   (B)   The filing fee for Council shall be $10.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 17-05,
passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.08 TIME OF TAKING OFFICE.
   Newly elected officers shall be qualified to take office December 1.
Incumbents shall remain in office until protests are finally determined and
successors are qualified and take office.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 17-05,
passed 4-3-17)
§ 33.09 EXTENSION OF TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor and Council Members of Wards 1 and 3 terms of office will be
extended to November 30, 2009, due to the change of the election date.
(Ord. 09-01, passed 4-6-09)
§ 33.10 AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the S.C. Code § 5-15-145, as amended, and contingent upon
the successful enactment of a municipal ordinance by the Town of Pendleton
transferring the following stated authority, Pendleton Town Council hereby
transfers the authority to the Anderson County Registration and Elections
Commission and the Anderson County Registration and Elections staff to conduct
the Town of Pendleton's municipal elections scheduled for November of odd-
numbered years, on behalf of the Town of Pendleton, and the Municipal Election
Cornmission (MEC) pursuant to the following terms and conditions; and
   (B)   It is specifically agreed to by and between the Town of Pendleton and
Anderson County, their respective Elections Commissions and staffs, that this
transfer and acceptance of authority to conduct the Town of Pendleton municipal
elections scheduled for November of odd-numbered years will be at no cost to
the County and at no responsibility to the Anderson County Registration and
Elections Commission. All Commission responsibilities, including but not
limited to proofing of elections material and submission for the purchased of
elections material will be the responsibility of the Town of Pendleton
Municipal Election Commission (MEC). The Anderson County Registration and
Elections staff will serve as staff, only, to the Town of Pendleton Municipal
Election Commission (MEC). All responsibility for public relations, media
notice, and media contact will be that of the Municipal Election Commission.
The Anderson County Registration and Elections staff will answer to and report
to the Town of Pendleton Municipal Election Commission (MEC) for purposes of
conducting the Town of Pendleton's municipal elections scheduled for November
of odd-numbered years pursuant to this transfer and acceptance of authority.
   (C)   The specific terms, conditions, and provisions of the municipal
elections to be conducted by the Anderson County Registration and Elections
staff are contained in Attachment "A" attached to Ordinance 17-06 and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. All terms, conditions,
and provisions of that Attachment "A" are specifically adopted as parts of this
section and the agreement between the Town of Pendleton and the County of
Anderson for transfer of such authority and the actual terms for conducting
said elections.
   (D)   The Town of Pendleton Municipal Election Commission (MEC) has
traditionally used paper ballots for Town of Pendleton municipal elections.
Anderson County traditionally uses the South Carolina state adopted electronic
voting system known as iVotronics for conducting Anderson County elections. The
agreed upon method for conducting the municipal elections shall be the
electronic voting machines known as iVotronics. As with all other aspects of
this transfer and acceptance of authority, all costs for the method of
balloting will be the sole responsibility of the Town of Pendleton.
   (E)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent or in conflict with
the provisions of this section are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency or conflict. All state laws and town ordinances not inconsistent
herewith shall remain in full force and effect, and shall be applicable to all
future elections.
   (F)   This transfer and acceptance of authority will remain in effect
indefinitely and will affect all Town of Pendleton's election in November of
odd-numbered years until cancelled or revoked by ordinance by either Town of
Pendleton or Anderson County.
(Ord. 17-06, passed 4-3-17)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE
Section
Purchasing
   
34.01   Budget
   
34.02   Invoices
   
34.03   Bids
   
34.04   Expenditures
   
34.05   Sole source purchasing
   
34.06   Emergency purchasing
   
34.07   Professional services
   
34.08   Ethics
Payment
   
34.20   Delinquent debts
   
34.21   Fixed assets
   
34.22   Sale of real property
   
34.23   Fees for use of credit and/or debit cards
PURCHASING
§ 34.01 BUDGET.
    All expected expenditures must be shown in the annual budget, and each
Department Head will be responsible for his/her department's purchasing after
budget approval. Any expenditures not budgeted must be approved by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.02 INVOICES.
    Invoices must be approved by the Department Head before submitting to the
Finance Director for payment. The Finance Director shall verify all new vendors
to be added to the vendors list, audit all invoices for clerical accuracy and
stamp them "paid" when payment is made.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.03 BIDS.
    The Town of Pendleton will seek to obtain bids from “in town” vendors,
where possible. “In town” vendors will be given a 5% advantage on the bids,
with a cap of $25,000.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.04 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Expenditures of $1,000 or more. A purchase order signed by the
Purchasing Agent must be obtained before placing an order, and the Purchasing
Agent will be responsible for keeping a file of all PO’s.
   (B)   Expenditures of $5,000 or more.
      (1)   On expenditures of $5,000 or more, the Purchasing Agent shall
obtain three written bids. These bids may come from advertising, invitation,
use of catalogs, brochures, proposals or other written materials.
      (2)   Less than three will be accepted only when the bid request has been
advertised, or if state purchasing is used. The Purchasing Agent shall have
authority to join with other units of government in cooperative purchasing, or
state purchasing plans, when the best interest of the town would be served
without the formality of publication and receiving competitive bids.
   (C)   Expenditures of $10,000 or more.
      (1)   Pertains to all sealed bids.
         (a)   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the Purchasing Agent
securely sealed in an envelope, and shall be identified on the envelope in
accordance with bid instructions.
         (b)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notices.
         (c)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available
for public inspection.
      (2)   Pertains to all bids.
         (a)   Rejection of bids. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority
to reject all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies
or contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
         (b)   Bidders in default to town. The Purchasing Agent shall not
accept the bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in the payment of
tax, license, or other moneys due the town.
         (c)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the
“lowest responsible bidder,” in addition to price, the Purchasing Agent shall
consider the following:
            1.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
            2.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
            3.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience
and efficiency of the bidder;
            4.   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
            5.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws
and ordinances relating to the contract or services;
            6.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
            7.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
            8.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
            9.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid;
            10.   The Purchasing Agent shall award the contract to local
vendors if deemed in the best interest of the town.
         (d)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to
the lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the Purchasing Agent and filed with the
papers relating to the transaction and held for a period of not less than
twelve months.
         (e)   Performance bonds. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority
to require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such form
and amount as he shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interest
of the town.
         (f)   Payment bond/labor material bond. The Purchasing Agent may
require a payment bond and a labor and material bond before entering into a
contract, in such form and amount as he shall deem.
         (g)   Equal opportunity. Equal opportunity to businesses in which the
majority ownership is by disadvantaged and/or female persons. The Purchasing
Agent shall affirmatively ensure that all business enterprises in which a
majority of the ownership is by disadvantaged persons and/or women will be
afforded full and equal opportunity to submit proposals in response to a
request for bids, and will not be discriminated against on the grounds of
gender, race, color or national origin in consideration for an award.
         (h)   Independent cost analysis. In order to comply with Federal and
state grant requirements an independent cost analysis will be obtained prior to
solicitation. An independent cost analysis is a tool for measuring cost
reasonableness.
         (i)   Right to protest. Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or
contractor who is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a;
contract may protest to the procurement director, except as otherwise stated in
this ordinance. The protest shall be submitted in writing within seven calendar
days after such aggrieved prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor knows or
should have known of the facts giving rise thereto.
         (j)   Authority to resolve protests. The Purchasing Agent shall have
authority, prior to the commencement of an action in court concerning the
controversy, to settle and resolve a protest by an aggrieved bidder; offeror,
or a contractor, actual or prospective, concerning the solicitation or award of
a contract.
         (k)   Decision on protests. If the protest is not resolved by mutual
agreement, the Purchasing Agent shall issue a decision in writing within ten
calendar days. The decision shall:
            1.   State the reasons for the action taken; and
            2.   Inform the protestant of the protestant's rights to appeal the
decision of the Purchasing Agent as provided in this section;
         (l)   Notice of decision on protests. A copy of the decision shall be
mailed or otherwise furnished to the protestant.
         (m)   Finality of decision on protests. A decision shall be final and
conclusive, unless a business adversely affected by the decision appeals
administratively to the Town Council in accordance with this section.
         (n)   Authority to debar or suspend. After reasonable notice to the
business or person involved and reasonable opportunity for that business or
person to be heard, the Purchasing Agent shall have authority to debar a
business or person for cause from consideration for award of contracts. The
procurement director, shall also have the authority to suspend a business or
person from consideration for award of contracts if there is probable cause to
believe that the business or person has engaged in any activity which might
lead to debarment. The period of debarment or suspension shall be as prescribed
as appropriate by the procurement director.
         (o)   Causes for debarment or suspension. The causes for debarment or
suspension shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            1.   Conviction of a business or any of its principal officers or
employees for commission of a criminal offense as an incident to obtaining or
attempting to obtain a public or private contract or subcontract; or in the
performance of such contract or subcontract;
            2.   A determination by the Purchasing Agent that the business, as
an offeror or bidder engaged in misuse of the town's protest procedure,
including, but not limited to, the filing of frivolous protests or appeals, the
filing of protests or appeals whereby it is clear that the basis of an appeal
would not result in the protestant being awarded a contract under a
solicitation, or the; filing of protests or appeals intended to cause delay in
awarding a contract;
            3.   A determination by the Purchasing Agent that the business as
an offeror or bidder engaged in collusion or other anti-competitive practices;
            4.   Conviction of a business or any of its principal officers or
employees under state or federal statutes of embezzlement, theft, forgery,
bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property, or
any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty
which currently, seriously, or directly affects; responsibility as a town
contractor;
            5.   Conviction of a business or any of its principal officers or
employees under state or Federal antitrust statues arising out of the
submission of bids or proposals;
            6.   Violation by a business or any of its principal officers or
employees of contract provisions of a character which is regarded by the
Purchasing Agent to be so serious as to justify debarment action;
            7.   Deliberate failure of thef business without good cause to
perform in accordance with the specifications or within the time limit provided
in a contract with the town;
            8.   A recent record by the business of failure to perform or of
unsatisfactory performance in accordance with the terms of one or more
contracts; provided that failure to perform or unsatisfactory performance
caused by acts beyond the control of the contractor shall not be considered to
be a basis for debarment;
            9.   Any other cause the; Purchasing Agent determines to be so
serious and compelling as to affect responsibility as a town contractor/
including debarment by another governmental entity for cause; or
            10.   For violation by a business or any of its principal officers
or employees of the ethical standards set forth in S.C. Code 1976, Title 8,
Chapter 13, as amended (the State Ethics Act);
         (p)   Decision on debarment or suspension. The Purchasing Agent shall
issue a written decision to debar or suspend. The decision shall:
            1.   State the reasons for the action taken; and
            2.   Inform the debarred orsuspended business or person involved of
business or person's rights to administrative review as provided in this
chapter.
         (q)   Notice of decision on debarment or suspension. A copy of the
decision shall be mailed or otherwise furnished to the debarred orsuspended
business or person. Such notice shall be deemed received three calendar days
after such mailing, or on the day of actual delivery.
         (r)   Finality of decision on debarment or suspension. A decision
under this ordinance shall be final and conclusive, or unless the debarred or,
suspended business or person submits a timely appeal to the Purchasing Agent in
accordance with this section. Debarment is not stayed pending appeal.
         (s)   Contract and breach of contract controversies.
            1.   Applicability. This division applies to controversies between
the town and a contractor and which arise under, of by virtue of, a contract
between them. This includes without limitation controversies based upon breach
of contract, mistake, misrepresentation, or other cause for contract
modification or revision.
            2.   Authority. The Purchasing Agent is authorized, prior to
commencement of an action in a court concerning the controversy, to settle and
resolve a controversy described in divisions 1. above.
            3.   Decision. If such a controversy is not resolved by mutual
agreement, the Purchasing Agent shall promptly issue a decision in writing. The
decision shall:
               A.   State the reason for the action taken; and
               B.   Inform the contractor of the contractor's rights to
administrative review as provided in this chapter;
            4.   Notice of decision. A copy of the decision under division 3.
above shall be mailed to the contractor.
            5.   Finality of decision. The decision under division 3. above
shall be final and conclusive, unless fraudulent, or unless the contractor
submits a timely appeal to town council in accordance with this chapter.
            6.   Failure to render timely decision. If the Purchasing Agent
does not issue the written decision required under division 3. above within a
reasonable time after written request for; a final decision, or within such
longer period as may be agreed upon by the parties, then the contractor may
proceed as if an adverse decision had been received.
         (t)   Finality and appeal of procurement director's decisions. The
decision of the Purchasing Agent shall be final unless appealed to Town Council
by either the town or the business or person, within ten days after service of
notice of the procurement director's decision, using the same time criteria
above; if such a decision is appealed to Town Council, Town Council shall
review the records and without further hearing affirm, modify, or deny the
appeal in open session. The decision of Town Council shall be final and any
stay that may be instituted shall be lifted at that time. Service of notice of
the decision of Town Council may be accomplished by delivery in person or by
mailing, and shall be complete when either delivered in person or placed in the
mail. Service may be made either to the business or person or to the business
or person's attorney;
         (u)   Stay of procurement during protest or appeal. In the event of a
timely protest under this section, the town shall not proceed further with the
solicitation or with the award of the contract until a final decision has been
made and the time for appeal has expired, unless the Procurement Director,
after consultation with the head of the using department makes a written
determination that the award of the contract is necessary to protect
substantial interests of the town;
         (v)   Solicitations or awards in violation of the law. The provisions
of this division apply where it is determined by the procurement director, or
upon administrative review, and in the town's sole discretion, that a
solicitation or award of a contract is in violation of law.
               1.   Remedies prior to award. If prior to award, it is
determined that a solicitation or proposed award of a contract is in violation
of law, then the solicitation or proposed award shall be: cancelled; revised to
comply with the law and rebid; or revised to comply with the law and awarded in
a manner that complies with the provisions of this chapter.
               2.   Remedies after an award, if after an award of a contract,
it is determined that the solicitation or award is in violation of law, then:
                  A.   If the business awarded the contract has not acted
fraudulently or in bad faith:
                     i.   The contract may be ratified and affirmed, provided
it is determined that doing so is in the best interest of the town; or
                     ii.   The contract may be terminated and the business
awarded the contract shall be compensated for the actual expenses reasonably
incurred under the contract prior to the termination.
                  B.   If the business awarded the contract has acted
fraudulently or in bad faith:
                     i.   The contract may be declared null and void; or
                     ii.   The contract may be ratified and affirmed if such
action is in the best interest of the town, without prejudice to the town's
right to such damages as may be appropriate.
   (D)   Expenditures of $5,000 or more must be approved by Council.
   (E)   The Purchasing Agent shall keep a tabulation sheet for all written
bids.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.05 SOLE SOURCE PURCHASING.
   SOLE SOURCE PURCHASING (under $5,000) is defined as purchases from a single
vendor without competitive bidding. This is only permitted where there has been
determination to standardize that product, there is only one vendor of the
product, or it is impractical to obtain other bids. The Purchasing Agent shall
document the need or reason for sole source procurement and keep a copy of
document on file.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.06 EMERGENCY PURCHASING.
   (A)   EMERGENCY PURCHASES are defined as expenditures which require
immediate attention for replacement or repair, or cannot wait for the
procedures of this chapter to be followed.
   (B)   Any emergency which affects the health and safety of the general
public falls in the “immediate attention” category. Purchases under these
conditions require no bids. The need for emergency purchasing shall be
documented within two days after the emergency and records shall be maintained.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.07 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
    Professional services include Attorneys, Consultants, Accountants,
Planners, Programmers and Engineers. Professional services are to be obtained
in writing and not considered as bids, and not subject to bid requirements.
Selection shall be made on the basis of qualifications and fairness of pricing
and in the best interest of the town.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.08 ETHICS.
   (A)   Purchases of personal items by the town for employees is prohibited.
   (B)   Any proposals, bids, contracts, or work to be performed by any Town
Council member, shall be in compliance with the state ethics law.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-28-94; Am. Ord. 18-13, passed 6-4-18; Am. Ord. 18-20,
passed 11-5-18)
Statutory reference:
   State ethics law for public officials, see S.C. Code §§ 8-13-100 et seq.
PAYMENT
34.20 DELINQUENT DEBTS.
    (A)   The Town of Pendleton may impose a collection cost of up to $25 to
defray its internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that are
sought to be collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt Collection
Act, S.C. Code Ann. §§ 12-56-10 et. seq, This cost is hereby declared to be a
collection cost that arises by operation of law and shall be added to the
delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
   (B)   The Town of Pendleton hereby declares that the administrative fee
charged by the Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection
cost to the town, which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and
recovered from the debtor.
   (C)   This chapter shall be effective on the date of final reading, provided
however, that this chapter is declared to be consistent with prior law and
practice and shall not be construed to mean that any fees previously charged to
debtors as costs of collection under the Act were not properly authorized or
properly charged to the debtor.
(Ord. 06-13, passed 10-2-06; Am. Ord. 18-21, passed 11-5-18)
§ 34.21 FIXED ASSETS.
   The sale of all town owned fixed assets with an estimated value of $100 or
more requires a public auction or bidding advertised in the news media at least
one week prior to the sale. The Town Administrator must approve the sale of all
fixed assets with an estimated value up to $10,000 and the Town Council must
approve the sale of all fixed assets valued at $10,000 or over.
(Ord. 06-19, passed 12-4-06)
§ 34.22 SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The town shall not sell or otherwise convey any interest in real
property held by the town unless an ordinance is first adopted by the Town
Council.
   (B)   (1)   No disposal by the town of any interest in real property by any
means shall be effective unless the procedure followed by the town complies
with the requirements of this section and the disposal is reflected in a
document of conveyance which meets the following requirements:
         (a)   The document of conveyance must be in a recordable form
permitted by state statute.
         (b)   The document of conveyance must be signed by the Mayor or in the
Mayor's absence, another town official designated in writing by the Mayor.
         (c)   The document of conveyance must contain a specific reference to
the ordinance by which the Town Council has authorized the conveyance to be
made.
         (d)   The document of conveyance must be delivered by the town to its
grantee or lessee at the time that the grant or lease is made.
      (2)   For purposes of this section DISPOSAL or DISPOSE means the sale,
lease, exchange or donation of real property.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in this section, the town may dispose of
interests in real property only by sale or lease, at public auction, to the
highest responsible bidder. The public auction may be conducted by the sealed
bid method or by the outcry method. The method used shall be determined by the
Town Council and shall be set forth in the ordinance authorizing the sale or
lease of the town lands.
   (D)   The preferred method of disposing of interests in town lands are lease
and sale. The town may dispose of town property by exchanging it for other
property only if both of the following conditions are met:
      (1) The Council determines, in findings set forth in its, resolution
authorizing the exchange, that the property is not required for town purposes
and that the interests of the town in disposing of the property would be better
served by an exchange for other property than by a sale or lease; and
      (2)   The Council determines that the property proposed to be conveyed to
the town in exchange for the town's property is of equal or greater value than
the town's property.
   (E)   When the town sells, leases or exchanges property, it must follow
these procedures:
      (1)   An estimate of value shall be made by an appraiser or by the County
Assessor. In the case of a sale or exchange, the estimate of value must be an
estimate of the present fair market value of the property. If the proposed
disposal is a lease, the estimate of value must be an estimate of both the
present fair market value of the property and also the present fair market
rental value of the property. Estimates of value may be based upon general
information as to recent land sales or leases in Anderson County or nearby
communities, and need not include detailed site-specific data or real estate
market analysis. The estimated value shall be the minimum legally acceptable
price for the property. The estimate of value must be reviewed and approved by
the Town Council prior to the conduct of any sale, lease, or exchange. This
review and approval may be made by the Council at any time prior to the
acceptance of high bids following their tabulation and review.
      (2)   Notice of the town's intent to dispose of the land, and of the
manner by which the land is to be disposed of (i.e., by sale, lease or
exchange, sealed bid or public outcry auction), shall be visibly posted at Town
Hall and published not less than once a week in a newspaper having general
circulation within the town, for two successive weeks prior to the disposal.
Notice may also be given by other means considered reasonable by the Mayor and
Council. The notice must contain a brief description of the land, its area and
general location, the minimum purchase or rental price, any terms or
limitations concerning land, and the times and places set forth for the public
outcry auction or sealed bid opening (if applicable) and for the exercise of
preference rights to meet high bids.
      (3)   If one or more bids are received at or above the minimum acceptable
terms, the highest bid shall be accepted. Council shall award the highest bid
at a public meeting.
      (4)   If no acceptable bids are received on a particular parcel:
         (a)   The Council may alter or keep the same minimum terms as
previously established and direct staff to issue another public notice; or
         (b)   The Council may alter or keep the same minimum terms previously
established and list the property for six months with a local real estate
broker on a multiple listing basis. A listing may be renewed for an additional
one six-month period.
      (5)   After expiration of the period set out in division (E)(4) above,
the property shall be removed from the market. Any decisions to sell a piece of
property once it has been removed from the market shall require that the entire
procedure set forth in this section be repeated. The Council may, however,
decide whether or not an additional appraisal is necessary.
   (F)   The Council may authorize the sale of after-acquired title or future
interests in real property to which the town is or may in the future become
entitled. When this power is exercised, the ordinance and any deeds issued
under this section must contain a specific disclaimer of any warranty of title.
A deed issued under this section may also contain provision for issuance of a
subsequent confirmatory quitclaim deed upon the request of the grantee at such
future time as the town may obtain title to the land.
   (G)   The Council may provide by ordinance for the lease, sale or grant of
town lands at less than its fair market value when determined to be in the best
economic interest to the town. The ordinance authorizing a lease, sale or grant
must include a statement of the reasons why the Council has decided to dispose
of the land for less than its fair market value. The Council may act without
complying with the provision of division (E) above when the disposal is for a
specific public use or determined to be in the best economic interest of the
town.
   (H)   When real property is determined by the Town Administrator to be
suitable for tenant occupancy and that occupancy is consistent with the public
purpose for which it was acquired or not be needed for the public purpose for
which is was acquired for up to five years, the Town Administrator may lease
all or any part of it to another for a term not to exceed five years at fair
market rent. The Town Administrator may require additional lease terms and
conditions consistent with the public health, safety and welfare.
   (I)   Except in the case of an exchange, all disposals of town property
under this section shall be for cash. The Council may provide by ordinance for
the sale of property pursuant to an installment sale agreement or with a
promissory note secured by a first deed of trust on the sale property. Rent on
leases shall be payable monthly or quarterly, as the Council may determine. Any
lease or installment purchase agreement issued by the town through an ordinance
must provide, among other terms and conditions, that upon a failure by the
purchaser or lessee to make timely payment thereunder the contract or lease is
terminated and all payments made thereunder are forfeited to the town.
(Ord. 13-08, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 17-11, passed 10-2-17)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR USE OF CREDIT AND/OR DEBIT CARDS.
   (A)   There is established a convenience fee to be paid by the customer
paying with a credit card and/or debit card.
   (B)   The convenience fee is hereby initially set at 3% per transaction.
This fee may periodically change from time to time and will be updated and
published in the town's Municipal Fee Schedule. Refer to the most current Fee
Schedule for the most current convenience fee amount.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 2-6-17; Am. Ord. 22-09, passed 6-6-22)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   State law adopted by reference
   
35.02   Alternate procedure for the collection of property taxes
Local Hospitality Tax
   
35.10   Imposition
   
35.11   Collection
   
35.12   Payment
   
35.13   Local Hospitality Tax Account
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   S.C. Code §§ 12-51-10 et seq., as amended, are adopted by the town and
incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. 82-01, passed 1-13-82)
Editor’s note:
   S.C. Code §§ 12-51-10 and 12-51-20, which authorized municipalities to adopt
the provisions of Chapter 51 of Title 12 for collection of its taxes, were
repealed by 1985 Act No. 166. For further information concerning these
statutes, see Op. Atty. Gen., No. 85-89, p. 251 (cited in the annotations to
S.C. Code § 12-51-20)
§ 35.02 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR THE COLLECTION OF PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   The Town Treasurer and other town employees shall follow the procedure
detailed in division (D) of this section.
   (B)   The above-described procedure shall be followed for the collection of
any delinquent property taxes due for the tax years 1972 through 1980,
inclusive.
   (C)   The penalty provisions incorporated in the 1981 tax notices, which
notices were mailed during October 1980, shall apply during 1982. However,
effective January 1, 1983, the provisions of this section shall apply to the
collection of property taxes for tax year 1981 and for subsequent tax years.
   (D)   Outline of Alternate Procedure for the Collection of Property Taxes
(Condensed from Chapter 51 of Title 12 of the S.C. Code of 1976, as amended).
      (1)   January 15 next following the year in which taxes became due, the
Town Treasurer adds a penalty of 15% to all property taxes remaining unpaid.
      (2)   March 15.
         (a)   Treasurer adds execution cost of 5% of all taxes and penalties
remaining unpaid.
         (b)   Treasurer issues, in the name of the State, a warrant or
execution against each defaulting taxpayer, signed by the Treasurer in an
official capacity, directed to an officer authorized to collect delinquent
taxes, penalties, and costs. The warrant or execution directs the officer to
levy such warrant or execution by distress and sale of so much of the
defaulting taxpayer’s estate, real or personal, sufficient to satisfy the
taxes, penalties, and costs. (S.C. Code § 12-51-40)
      (3)   On or before April 1. The Treasurer must mail (via “Certified Mail,
return receipt requested - deliver to addressee only”) notice of the delinquent
taxes, penalties, and costs. Notice should be sent to the person at the address
shown on the tax receipt or a more correct address if known to the Treasurer.
Notice should specify that if delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs are not
paid by August 30, the property will be duly advertised and sold on sales day
in October. Notice should specify amount of taxes, penalties, and costs. Return
receipt of this “Certified Mail” is equivalent to “levying by distress”. (S.C.
Code § 12-51-40)
      (4)   On or before August 31. In the event the certified mail notice has
been returned, the officer shall take exclusive possession of the property
against which such taxes were assessed. This is done by posting a notice at one
or more conspicuous places on the premises, in the case of real estate, reading
“Seized by person officially charged with the collection of delinquent taxes of
political subdivision to be sold for delinquent taxes.” The posting of the
notice shall be equivalent to levying by distress, seizing and taking exclusive
possession thereof, or by taking exclusive possession of the personalty. (S.C.
Code § 12-51-40)
      (5)   September 1.
         (a)   Treasurer shall add 5% as additional cost to the delinquent
taxes, penalties, and costs then due.
         (b)   Treasurer shall properly advertise the property for sale once a
week for three successive weeks for sale in October.
         (c)   Advertisement shall be titled “Delinquent Tax Sale” and shall
include, among other things:
            1.   The tax receipt number;
            2.   The delinquent taxpayer’s name;
            3.   The description of the property (County Auditor’s map - block
- parcel number is sufficient);
            4.   The number of acres or lots and buildings;
            5.   The total of the taxes plus penalties and costs. (S.C. § Code
12-51-40)
      (6)   Sales day October.
         (a)   Property sold at public auction beginning at 10:00 a.m. at front
door of Town Hall for cash payable in full on same date.
         (b)   If more than one item is to be sold no item shall be sold if the
sale of preceding items brings sufficient funds to cover all of the defaulting
taxpayer’s delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs. (S.C. Code § 12-51-50)
      (7)   Tax sale money. Successful bidder shall pay cash on the day of the
sale. Person in charge of collection of delinquent taxes shall furnish the
purchaser with a receipt for the purchase money and annex the receipt to the
duplicate warrant with the endorsement thereon of his or her actions
thereunder. All delinquent tax sale moneys collected shall be turned over to
the Treasurer. (S.C. Code § 12-51-60)
      (8)   On or before October 30. The Treasurer shall make full settlement
of tax sales money due to the political subdivisions for which the taxes were
levied. (S.C. Code § 12-51-70)
      (9)   Redemption of real property. The defaulting taxpayer, any grantee
of the owner, or any mortgage or judgement creditor may within 18 months of the
sale redeem each item of real estate by paying taxes, penalties, and costs,
together with 8% interest
on the whole amount if redeemed in the first year after the sale, plus an
additional 4% if redeemed in the second year after the sale. (S.C. Code § 12-
51-90)
      (10)   Upon real estate being redeemed, the person in charge of
collection of delinquent taxes shall:
         (a)   Cancel the sale in the tax book and note thereon the amount
paid, by whom and when;
         (b)   Notify the successful purchaser to return the tax sale receipt;
         (c)   Refund to the purchaser the purchase price plus the interest
accumulated. (S.C. Code § 12-51-100)
      (11)   Notice of redemption period. Neither more than 45 days nor less
than 20 days prior to the end of redemption period, the person charged with the
collection of delinquent taxes shall mail to the owner of record on February 1
immediately preceding the end of the redemption period, a notice that the
property has been sold and if not redeemed before a certain date (18 months
from date of sale), a tax title will be delivered to the successful purchaser.
( S.C. Code § 12-51-120)
      (12)   If the property is not redeemed within the 18-month period, within
20 days of the expiration of the period a tax title shall be made to the
purchaser or his assignee. Delivery of the tax title to the Clerk of Court
shall be considered putting the purchaser (or assignee) in possession. Tax
title should include:
         (a)   Name of defaulting taxpayer;
         (b)   Date of execution;
         (c)   Date real estate was posted and by whom;
         (d)   The dates each certified notice was mailed to the party or
parties of interest, to whom mailed, and whether or not received by addressee.
(S.C. Code § 12-51-130)
      (13)   Purchaser is responsible in amount of $15 for cost of tax title
and any documentary stamps necessary to be affixed and recording fees. (S.C.
Code § 12-51-130)
      (14)   Redemption provisions do not apply to personal property. Such
property cannot be redeemed. Upon payment therefor by the successful purchaser
and delivery of the duplicate warrant (for example, tax receipt) with
description thereof and the following notation, the warrant is considered a
bill of sale and proof of the purchaser’s right to possession. (S.C. Code § 12-
51-110)
      (15)   If the tax sale produces an overage in cash above the total amount
due, the overage shall belong to the defaulting taxpayer to be claimed or
assigned by him or her. If not claimed or assigned in five years from date of
sale, the overage escheats to the general fund of the town. Prior to escheat
date, the overage shall be kept in a separate account, invested so as not to be
idle, and any earnings from the overage shall accrue to the town and shall be
settled quarterly. (S.C. Code § 12-51-130)
      (16)   Notice to mortgagees of proposed tax sales and of tax sales of
properties must be given pursuant to S.C. Code §§ 12-49-210 through 12-49-300
inclusive.
(Ord. 82-01, passed 1-13-82)
LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX
§ 35.10 IMPOSITION.
   There is hereby imposed a local hospitality tax of 2% on the gross proceeds
derived from the sale of prepared food and beverages (for immediate consumption
or take out) by a restaurant, hotel, motel, caterer or other food service
facility within the town. In addition, the fee shall be imposed on all food and
beverages prepared or modified in the town limits by convenience stores, or
grocery stores that have specified area where food and beverages are prepared
for immediate consumption or carry out. This fee applies to meals and beverages
sold within the town. Payment of the hospitality tax established hereby shall
be the liability of the customer.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-1-06)
§ 35.11 COLLECTION.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be collected from the customer when
payment for meals or beverages is tendered and shall be held in trust for the
benefit of the town until remitted as provided in §
35.12.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-1-06)
§ 35.12 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Payment of the hospitality tax established in this subchapter shall be
the liability of the consumer for the services for items described in §
35.10. The hospitality tax shall be paid at the time of delivery of the
services or items for which the hospitality tax applies and shall be collected
by the provider or seller of the items. The hospitality tax collected by the
seller or provider of the items as required under §
35.10 shall be remitted to the town as follows:
      (1)   On a monthly basis when estimated amount of average collection is
more than $50 per month (annual gross revenue in excess of $20,000).
      (2)   On a quarterly basis when the estimated amount of average
collections is between $25 and $50 per month (annual gross receipts between
$10,000 and $20,000).
      (3)   On an annual basis when the amount of average collection is less
than $25 per month (annual gross receipts less than $10,000).
   (B)   Total collections and required reports shall be submitted to the town
by the 20th day of the month and shall cover sales for the previous month. A
copy of the completed South Carolina State Sales and Use Tax Return Form (Form
ST-3) shall be attached along with the required reports. Payments covered under
the provisions of division (A)(2) above shall be postmarked quarterly by the
20th day of January, April, July and October for the previous quarterly sales
or annually by January 20th for the calendar year sales as provided in division
(A)(3) above. Any collections not remitted by the above stated deadlines shall
be subject to a penalty of 5% of the unpaid amount for each calendar month or
portion thereof after the due date until paid. The failure to collect from
patrons the amount imposed by this subchapter shall not relieve any
establishment subject to this subchapter from making the required remittance.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-1-06) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.13 LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX ACCOUNT.
   There is hereby established a special account to be known as the Local
Hospitality Tax Account into which the taxes remitted shall be deposited by the
town and used solely for the purposes provided by law.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-1-06)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   The failure of any vendor subject to §§
35.10 through
35.13 to remit to the town the tax imposed by §§
35.10 through
35.13 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine or not more than $500
or imprisonment for up to 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 5-1-06)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Smoking prohibited in town buildings
§ 36.01 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN TOWN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Smoking prohibited in town buildings. It shall be unlawful for any
person to smoke, or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other lighted
smoking equipment in the public buildings owned by the town. “No Smoking” signs
shall be conspicuously displayed in all such buildings.
   (B)   Designated smoking areas. Anyone wishing to smoke may do so under the
covered exit areas attached to each building.
(Ord. 94-01, passed 1-11-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Adoption by reference
§ 37.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Pendleton Personnel Manual is adopted by reference and
incorporated as if set out in full herein. A copy of the Personnel Manual is on
file in the office of the Town Clerk for inspection by the public during normal
business hours.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 9-13-04; Am. Ord. 05-10, passed 6-21-05; Am. Ord. 06-03,
passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 11-1-10; Am. Res. passed 11-1-10)
CHAPTER 38: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
38.01   Reestablishment of the Pendleton Police Department
   
38.02   Regulations
   
38.03   Duties and powers
§ 38.01 REESTABLISHMENT OF THE PENDLETON POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   That the law enforcement and protection of the town shall be vested in and
delegated to the hereinafter reestablished Pendleton Police Department, with
the continued assistance of the Anderson County Sheriff's Department. The
Pendleton Police Department is hereby reestablished as the law enforcement and
protection agency for the purpose of preserving peace, maintaining order, and
enforcing the laws and ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 1-4-16)
§ 38.02 REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department shall consist of one person known and designated as
the Chief of Police and such other officers as the Town Council may approve,
who shall meet the criteria and requirements of the laws of the State of South
Carolina for law enforcement officers including, but not limited to successful
graduation from the South Carolina Criminal Justice Academy and rules as may be
prescribed by the Town Council from time to time. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the deputies or police officers as may be designated by the
Town Council. The Town of Pendleton is an "at will" employer.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 1-4-16)
§ 38.03 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall carry out the duties of the Chief of Police
and supervise and manage the functions of the Police Department relating to
public safety and the enforcement of ordinances, state and Federal laws;
organize the police department of the town in conformity with the laws of the
state and ordinances of the town; and shall promulgate procedures, rules,
directives and orders for the administration of the department, including but
not limited to, coordinating with and supplementing the law enforcement
assistance from Anderson County Sheriff's Department. The Chief of Police will
promulgate policies for the department, which shall be subject to approval by
the Town Council.
   (B)   The town is authorized to apply for Federal and state funds for the
purpose of reestablishing and maintaining a police force in Pendleton, South
Carolina.
   (C)   The duties of the Pendleton Police Department are intended to
supplement and do not replace any services provided under any of the town's
agreements for enhanced law enforcement services with Anderson County Sheriff's
Department.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 1-4-16)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER USE
         
APPENDIX: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   DROUGHT RESPONSE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Public utility system
   
50.002   Application required for utility services
   
50.003   Connection fees
   
50.004   Payment of utility bills
   
50.005   Notice of lost or contested utility bill
   
50.006   Violation of rules and regulations of chapter
   
50.007   Injuring or tampering with utilities
Water Service and Water Rates
   
50.020   Residential water connections required
   
50.021   Residential, commercial, and small industrial metered water rates
inside town
   
50.022   Residential, commercial, and small industrial metered water rates
outside town
   
50.023   Large industrial metered water charges inside town and outside town
   
50.024   Irrigation meters
   
50.025   Reserved
   
50.026   Water service extensions inside town
   
50.027   Water service outside town
   
50.028   Tap fees inside town and outside town
   
50.029   Computation of charges when meter fails to register; unwarranted
testing of meters
   
50.030   Tapping street mains, laying service pipe
   
50.031   Pollution or contamination of reservoir or water main
   
50.032   Water not to be furnished by others
   
50.033   Damage to private property
   
50.034   Water service charges for special occupancies in town only
   
50.035   Cross-connection control/backflow prevention
   
50.036   Reserved
   
50.037   Reserved
Sewer Services and Sewer Rates
   
50.045   Sewer service connections required
   
50.046   Residential, commercial, and small industrial sewer service charges
inside town
   
50.047   Residential, commercial, and small industrial sewer service charges
outside town
   
50.048   Sewer service charges for large industrial customers
   
50.049   Connection fee
   
50.050   Deposit fee
   
50.051   Capacity fee
   
50.052   Tap fee
   
50.053   Permit fee
   
50.054   Pretreatment program administration charges
   
50.055   Sewer extensions inside town
   
50.056   Sewer service outside town
   
50.057   Reserved
Sewers in General
   
50.070   General
   
50.071   Abbreviations
   
50.072   Definitions
   
50.073   Permits required
   
50.074   Required connections to public sewer
   
50.074A   Required installation of backflow preventers
   
50.075   Prohibited connections to public sewer
   
50.076   Private sewage disposal systems
   
50.077   Abandonment of private sewage disposal systems
   
50.078   Costs borne by owner/user
   
50.079   Uncovering or injuring of public sewers
   
50.080   Damage, destruction of equipment or materials
   
50.081   Damage to private property
   
50.082   Multiple sewer service connections
   
50.083   Use of old building sewers
   
50.084   Materials of construction for sewers and manholes
   
50.085   Connecting of building sewer to public sewer
   
50.086   Connections by licensed contractor
   
50.087   OSHA requirements
   
50.088   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.089   Equalization facilities
   
50.090   Pretreatment facilities
   
50.091   Operation and maintenance of interceptor, equalization, and
pretreatment facilities
   
50.092   Sampling and monitoring manholes (control structures)
   
50.093   Right to enter, inspect, sample, and measure
   
50.094   Meter required when water not supplied
   
50.095   Agreement with industrial concern
   
50.096   Infiltration/inflow requirements
   
50.097   Records kept of sewer connection
   
50.098   Confidentiality
   
50.099   Connection constitutes consent
   
50.100   Reserved
Wastewater Discharges Prohibitions
and Limitations
   
50.110   General prohibitions
   
50.111   Specific prohibitions
   
50.112   Specific local limitations
   
50.113   State pretreatment standards
   
50.114   Affirmative defenses
   
50.115   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
50.116   Limitation of wastewater flow and strength
   
50.117   Revisions of limitations
   
50.118   Dilution restriction
   
50.119   Accidental discharge and slug control plans
   
50.120   Bypass
   
50.121   Upset provision
   
50.122   Notice of process change or interruption of operation
   
50.123   Pretreatment
   
50.124   Additional pretreatment actions
   
50.125   Hauled waste
Discharge Permits
   
50.135   General
   
50.136   Application for permit to discharge
   
50.137   Issuance of permit to discharge
   
50.138   Permit conditions
   
50.139   Permit duration
   
50.140   Permit transfer
   
50.141   Industrial expansion projects
   
50.142   Individual wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections
   
50.143   Individual wastewater discharge permitting: new connections
   
50.144   Permit modification
   
50.145   Permit revocation
   
50.146   Permit reissuance
Sampling, Monitoring, and Reporting
   
50.160   General
   
50.161   Reporting requirements
   
50.162   Sampling and monitoring requirements
   
50.163   Records
   
50.164   Certification
   
50.165   Baseline monitoring reports
   
50.166   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
50.167   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
50.168   Reports of changed conditions
   
50.169   Reports of potential problems
   
50.170   Reports from unpermitted users
   
50.171   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
50.172   Compliance monitoring
   
50.173   Confidential information
Compliance and Enforcement Activities
   
50.185   General
   
50.186   Compliance activities
   
50.187   Enforcement activities
   
50.188   Enforcement response plan
   
50.189   Remedies nonexclusive
 
   
Appendix:   Enforcement Response Plan
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PUBLIC UTILITY SYSTEM.
   The waterworks system and the sewer system of the town, together with all
improvements, extensions and betterments thereto, are combined into one system,
which shall be operated as the combined public utility of the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.002 APPLICATION REQUIRED FOR UTILITY SERVICES.
   Any person or firm desiring any town utility shall apply to the Town Clerk
for such services. Industrial users desiring sewer service shall comply with §
50.073.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.003 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Any person or firm complying with §
50.002 shall be required to deposit a utility service fee, refundable at the
time service is discontinued. For determination of connection fees, refer to
water and sewer charges as periodically published by the town.
   (B)   No connection fee shall be charged to terminate and relocate services
from one physical address to another after the initial connection fee
referenced above has been paid.
   (C)   No connection fee shall be charged to change name only, when the name
change is necessary due to marriage, divorce, or death.
   (D)   After 4pm, no new connections will be made.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.004 PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill and generally all utility bills are due and payable within ten
calendar days from the date of mailing.
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before the due date, service
will be subject to disconnection. A penalty of 10% of the amount due will be
added to the bill after the due date.
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to hearing procedure provided herein,
service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event until the
charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When any of the due dates for discontinuance of service fall on a
Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the discontinuance of service will take effect on
the next normal town workday.
   (D)   A charge of $35 shall be charged for re-establishing utility service
after cut-off for non-payment until 4:30 p.m. If the service is re-established
after 4:30 p.m., the charge shall be $60. After 4:00 p.m., the utility service
will be disconnected the following day.
   (E)   Persons moving into a location where utility service is connected and
on, must notify the town of their occupancy within 48 hours. Failure to notify
the town in the specified time shall constitute a misdemeanor on the part of
the occupant and that person shall be responsible for all charges then due and
payable for that service location.
   (F)   Persons moving from a location where utility service is connected and
in service must notify the town immediately and request discontinuance of
service. Failure to notify the town as stated above shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (G)   Flat rate sewer customers' initial bill will be figured by adding the
monthly flat-rate amount for the year and dividing by 365 to get the daily
amount multiplied by the number of days the service was active.
(Ord. 93-02, passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04,
passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.005 NOTICE OF LOST OR CONTESTED UTILITY BILL.
    If any utility customer's bill is lost enroute or if any such customer
contests a bill, then timely notice shall be given thereof by the customer.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.006 VIOLATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS OF CHAPTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any water or sewer customer to willfully violate
any of the rules and regulations of the town pertaining to the use of water,
pipes, mains, spigots, hydrants, and sewage treatment works.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.007 INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH UTILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface or injure any house,
fence, bridge, wall, street main, sluice pipe, gate valve, stop valve, fire
hydrant, machinery, or other fixtures pertaining to the combined public utility
system of the town or in any way to prevent the proper use thereof, or to climb
upon any reservoir or water tank or tamper with any of its fixtures, or place
advertisements, graffiti, or placards thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, tamper with, “straight
line” a utility service, or bypass a meter which has been installed for the
purpose of measuring utility services. Any meter found in a condition which
would cause such meter to inaccurately measure the use of a utility service or
the attachment to a meter or distribution wire of any device, mechanism or wire
which would permit the use of unmetered utility services or would cause a meter
to inaccurately measure the use thereof shall be evidence that either the
person in whose name such meter was installed or the person for whose benefit
it was diverted caused the service to be diverted from the meter or the meter
to inaccurately measure the use of the service.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than authorized personnel to
restore utility service when said service is discontinued for non-payment. If
any person other than authorized town personnel causes utility services to be
restored prior to paying in full the outstanding balance, then it shall be
evidence that either the person in whose name such meter was installed or the
person who benefited caused the service to be restored.
   (D)   Any violations of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
WATER SERVICE AND WATER RATES
§ 50.020 RESIDENTIAL WATER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot or land within the corporate limits of the town
on which there is located a habitable building or structure and where town
water service is available within 200 feet, shall connect such building or
structure to the water system when erected. If town water service is not
available at the time of erection of such building but is later made available,
such building or structure shall connect to the water system within 90 days
after receiving written notice from the town that town water service is
available.
   (B)   Upon refusal or non-compliance by the owner of any real estate as
mentioned in the preceding paragraph to make such water connection after
written notice has been given to him or her by the town, then in that event,
such property shall be deemed a nuisance and the town shall immediately notify
the appropriate authorities of the town of such refusal or non-compliance.
Further, noncompliance shall not absolve such property owner of water system
charges. The rate at which the noncomplying property owner will be charged
shall be based on the inside town water rate. In the event the owner is
unknown, resides out of the state or cannot be reached with the notice speedily
enough for the necessities of public health, a notice left at the house or
premises with the tenant or occupant, or published in one of the local
newspapers shall suffice, and such nuisance shall be abated in accordance with
law.
   (C)   As material consideration for the provision of water service by the
town, the property owner must fully execute the limited power of attorney and
the temporary easement for utility service, as amended.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.021 RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND SMALL INDUSTRIAL METERED WATER RATES
INSIDE TOWN.
   The rate for metered water in the town shall be in accordance with the water
system charges as periodically adopted and published by the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.022 RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND SMALL INDUSTRIAL METERED WATER RATES
OUTSIDE TOWN.
    The rate for metered water outside of the corporate limits of the town
shall be in accordance with water system charges as periodically adopted and
published by the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.023 LARGE INDUSTRIAL METERED WATER CHARGES INSIDE TOWN AND OUTSIDE TOWN.
    The charges for metered water usage for large industrial customers (use of
90,000 gallons per month or greater) located inside the corporate limits or
outside the corporate limits shall be individually negotiated.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.024 IRRIGATION METERS.
    The town will install, when feasible, a separate meter for water that does
not go through the sewer system. User will be charged for water used, no sewer,
and a minimum monthly customer base charge. For determination of fees, refer to
the water and sewer charges as periodically published by the town.
(Ord. 14-09, passed 12-1-14; Ord. 17-09, passed 8-7-17; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed
5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.025 RESERVED.
§ 50.026 WATER SERVICE EXTENSIONS INSIDE TOWN.
   For residential and commercial water line extensions inside the town, when
feasible the town shall furnish, construct, and install a service line (a water
line which can serve only one customer) to the customer's property line nearest
the town's water main (a water line which is capable of serving more than one
customer). The town shall furnish the tap, meter, meter box and pipe from the
main to the meter. The town shall maintain the service line up to and including
the meter; provided, it is located on a public right-of-way or easement. In
case where further development is anticipated, the town may elect to extend a
distribution main sized to meet the future demands of the area.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.027 WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to negotiate any and all water service
outside the town at its own discretion.
   (B)   For residential and commercial water line extensions outside the town,
when feasible the town shall furnish, construct and install a service line (a
water line which can serve only one customer) to the customer’s property line
nearest the town’s water main (a water line which is capable of serving more
than one customer). the town shall furnish the tap, meter, meter box from the
main to the meter. The town shall maintain the service line up to and including
the meter; provided, it is located on a public right-of-way or easement. In
cases where further development is anticipated the town may elect to extend a
distribution main sized to meet the future demands of the area.
   (C)   Any extension of service outside the town limits must be located on a
public right-of-way or easement. In cases where service lines must be extended
across private property, the customer shall be responsible for obtaining the
required easement(s).
   (D)   It shall be the policy of the town to require that the owner of any
property located outside of the town (a “subject property”) requesting either a
new connection, upgraded connection or a change in use of the property, which
would require a change to allocation, to the town's water utility system be
required to annex into the town at such time as the subject property is
contiguous to the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (E)   If the subject property is contiguous to the town at the time such
request is made, the owner of such property shall be required to submit an
annexation petition to the town prior to the connection to the utility system
being made.
   (F)   If the subject property is not contiguous to the corporate boundaries
of the town at the time such request is made, the owner of the subject property
shall be required to execute a declaration of annexation covenant prior to any
connection to the utility system being made, requiring the owner of the subject
property, or any subsequent owner, its heirs, assigns and successors, to take
such action necessary to annex the subject property, any portion thereof, or
any larger property to which the subject property was added, into the town at
such time as the subject property, any portion thereof, or any larger property
to which the subject property was added becomes contiguous to the corporate
boundaries of the town. The declaration of annexation covenant shall be in a
form to be approved by the Council.
   (G)   The annexation declaration will be properly processed and recorded.
   (H)   The town may connect or allow continued service to other political
subdivisions of the state, industrial properties and developments to the
municipal water system without annexation agreements when the economic benefit
is found to be in the best interest of the community. The Town Council shall
approve such on a case-by-case basis by resolution.
   (I)   The extension of any water distribution main outside the town limits
shall first have the approval of Town Council.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 14-09, passed 12- 1-14; Am. Ord. 17-09,
passed 8-7-17; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 20-01, passed 2-10-20;
Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.028 TAP FEES INSIDE TOWN AND OUTSIDE TOWN.
   (A)   Tap fees shall be based on the size service connection and meter
required. Tap fees in town shall be in accordance with the water system charges
as periodically adopted and published by the town.
   (B)   Tap fees and meters above the size of two inches shall be negotiated
and shall include all costs associated with the installation.
   (C)   The customer shall pay in advance when application is made at Town
Hall.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.029 COMPUTATION OF CHARGES WHEN METER FAILS TO REGISTER; UNWARRANTED
TESTING OF METERS.
   (A)   In case where a water meter fails to register, the monthly charges
shall be determined by the average of the three most recent months of
consumption preceding the malfunction.
   (B)   Unwarranted testing of water meters shall be charged to the customers,
and this charge shall not be less than the actual cost of shipping and testing
the meter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.030 TAPPING STREET MAINS, LAYING SERVICE PIPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those duly authorized by the
town to tap or take water from the street mains or service pipes, or to lay a
service pipe or set a cock, hydrant, or any other fixture by which water may be
taken from the mains or service pipes.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.031 POLLUTION OR CONTAMINATION OF RESERVOIR OR WATER MAIN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or willfully pollute,
contaminate or defile in any manner the water in any reservoir, water tank,
fountain, pipe or main connected with the water works in the town. Users
required to provide cross connection control/backflow prevention devices shall
comply with §
50.035.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.032 WATER NOT TO BE FURNISHED BY OTHERS.
   It shall be the duty of every person whose premises may be supplied with
water from the town water works to prohibit persons not residing in the
household from procuring such water from the premises. Any violation of this
provision shall be cause to disconnect the source of water.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.033 DAMAGE TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall not be held liable for damage to private property unless such
damage is caused as the result of negligence on the part of the town of any of
its employees lawfully acting on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.034 WATER SERVICE CHARGES FOR SPECIAL OCCUPANCIES IN TOWN ONLY.
   For residential customers where more than one single-family unit
(apartments, mobile home parks, etc.) is served through one water meter or
where more than one commercial establishment is served through the water meter,
the town shall charge a water service rate of $2 less than the minimum billing
period charge for an individual user times the number of units connected to the
service. This is meant to include 100% of the units in existence. In the event
the total metered flow exceeds the number of units multiplied by the minimum
flow allowed, each additional 1,000 gallons shall be billed at the prevailing
rate.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.035 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL/ BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   Authority. In accordance with the State Safe Drinking Water Act (1976
Code of Laws of South Carolina, Section 44-55-10 et seq.), add the South
Carolina Primary Drinking Water Regulations promulgated by the S. C. DHEC
(Regulation 61-58), the town shall adopt a cross-connection control/backflow
prevention program.
   (B)   Goals. The general goals of the cross-connection control/backflow
prevention program shall be:
      (1)   To protect and maintain the public water supply and distribution
system of the town so as to continuously provide safe and potable water in
sufficient quantity and pressure and free from potential hazards to the health
of its users.
      (2)   To facilitate the elimination or control of any existing,
unprotected cross-connections between the water system of the town and any
other water system(s), sewers, or waste lines, or any piping systems or
containers containing polluting substances.
      (3)   To provide for the establishment and maintenance of a continuing
program of cross-connection control which will effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the potable water supply system by cross-
connection.
   (C)   Definitions. 
      (1)   APPROVED. Accepted by the town or its authorized representative as
meeting the required standards or specifications, or as suitable for the
proposed use.
      (2)   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of the flow of water or other
liquids, mixtures, gases, or other substances into or towards the distribution
piping of a potable supply of water from any source or sources.
      (3)   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. Any device or means approved by DHEC for use in
preventing backflow under its prescribed limited conditions and design for use.
These devices consist of: air gap, reduced pressure backflow preventer, double
check valve assembly, pressure vacuum breaker, atmospheric vacuum breaker, hose
bib vacuum breaker, residential dual check, double (or dual) check with
intermediate atmospheric vent.
         (a)   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow
between the free-flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any
other system, vessel, vat, tank, etc. This physical separation must be a
minimum of twice the diameter of the supply side pipe diameter, but never less
than one inch. This method or device is approved for use on high hazard
category cross connections.
         (b)   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents back-
siphonage by creating an atmospheric vent in the line when the
supply line pressure falls to atmospheric (zero) or below, thereby creating a
vacuum or negative pressure. This device is approved for use on low and
(intermediate) hazards where only back-siphonage is being addressed.
         (c)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently
operating spring or weight loaded check valves with tightly closing shut off
valves on each end of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for
the testing of each check valve. This device is approved for use on low hazard
category cross-connections.
         (d)   DOUBLE (OR DUAL) CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT.
A device having two spring loaded check valves which are separated by an
atmospheric vent. This device is only available in small sizes through (3/4").
It has no test cocks or gate valves, and is usually used for internal
protection. This device is approved for low to (intermediate) hazard category
cross-connections.
         (e)   HOSE BIB VACUUM BREAKER. A device which is permanently attached
to a hose bib and which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker. It is normally
approved for low hazard category cross-connections, back-siphonage only.
         (f)   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device which is identical to the
atmospheric vacuum breaker except that it is equipped with two tightly closing
shut-off valves and an internal spring which allows it to be installed under
continuous pressure. This device is only approved for use against back-
siphonage backflow where low (to intermediate) category hazards exist.
         (g)   REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly consisting of
two independently operating approved check valves with an automatically
operating differential relief valve located between the check valves. Tightly
closing shut-off valves are located on each end of the check valves, and
properly located test cocks are positioned for the testing of the check valves
and the  relief valve. This device is approved for high hazard category cross-
connections, and may never be installed in a location or manner which will
subject the device to possible flooding or allow the relief valve to become
submerged under water.
         (h)   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK. A device with two independently
operating check valves. This device is not equipped with shut-off valves or
test cocks, and is approved for low hazard category cross connections.
Residential dual checks are normally employed as a containment device installed
at or in the service connection meter box.
      (4)   CERTIFIED TESTER. Any person holding an up-to-date backflow
prevention device tester certification card issued by DHEC.
      (5)   CONTAINMENT. A method of backflow prevention which requires a
backflow preventer at the water service connection entrance (usually
immediately downstream of the water meter).
      (6)   CONTAMINANT. Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological
substance or matter in water, impairing the quality of the water.
      (7)   CROSS CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection or structural
arrangement between a public water supply and any other source or system
through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable system
any used water, industrial fluid, gas or substance other than the intended
potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper
connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover devices and other
temporary or permanent devices through which or because of which backflow can
or may occur are considered to be cross-connections.
      (8)   DHEC. The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental
Control, including personnel authorized to act on behalf of the Department.
      (9)   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Water Supply System for the Town of
Pendleton,  including personnel authorized to act on behalf of the Director.
      (10)   HIGH HAZARD. An actual threat to the public water supply of a
physical or toxic nature to such a degree of intensity that there would be a
danger to public health.
      (11)   INTERMEDIATE HAZARD. A potential threat to the public water supply
of a physical or toxic nature to such a degree of intensity that the potential
endangerment to the public health exists.
      (12)   LOW HAZARD. That degree of hazard which would not constitute a
threat to health, but which may cause an actual or potential threat to the
physical properties of the water sufficient to cause a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable.
      (13)   OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, or license to operate or
reside in a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made or
upon which a cross-connection is present or suspected of being present. A user
of the water system.
      (14)   PERSON. An individual, partnership, co-partnership, cooperative,
firm, company, public or private corporation, political subdivision, agency of
the State, trust, estate, joint structure, company, or any other legal entity
or their legal representative, agent or assigns.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   The town shall designate an individual or position, to be herein
called “Director”, to administer the cross-connection control/backflow
prevention program.
      (2)   The Director has the primary responsibility of enforcing the cross-
connection control program and to maintain all records pertaining thereto.
      (3)   The user shall allow his or her property to be inspected for
possible cross-connections and shall follow the provisions of this chapter and
DHEC regulations.
      (4)   If the Director requires the public water supply to be protected by
the containment approach then the user shall be responsible for water quality
beyond the outlet end of the containment device and shall implement a program
of internal protection which will address each offending fixture within his or
her facility for the purpose of protecting the health of his or her employees
as well as the safety/portability of his or her product.
   (E)   Requirements - existing users.
      (1)   Utilizing water customer billing records, telephone calls, personal
interviews and inspections, the Director shall conduct a survey of all existing
nonresidential customers in order to determine which facilities will be
required to install protective devices, the type of protective device(s) to be
required and the length of time allowed for installation of the required device
(s).
      (2)   Any newly installed reduced pressure backflow preventer or double
check valve assembly required on any existing facility shall be tested by a
certified tester upon installation and once annually thereafter. A firm but
reasonable time period is to be established by the Director for the completion
of the required installation and testing of the prescribed device(s).
      (3)   The Director shall not allow any existing cross-connection to
remain unless it is protected by an approved backflow preventer which is
commensurate with the degree of hazard in question. The Director has the
authority to decide whether the backflow prevention device must be installed at
the service connection meter (containment approach), or whether the cross-
connection in question may be adequately eliminated or protected within the
facility at or near its point of origin (internal protection approach).
      (4)   Reasonable but firm time schedules shall be implemented by the
Director for compliance with testing and installation requirements.
      (5)   The owner shall be responsible for meeting all compliance
schedules, as well as for all fees, and required device testing.
   (F)   Requirements - new user.
      (1)   The Director shall conduct on-site evaluations, inspections,
interviews, and review of plans in order to determine the degree of hazard in
question and shall prescribe backflow prevention measures (devices) which are
commensurate with the degree of hazard in question. In cases where increased
hazards do not dictate the need for stronger protection, a minimum of a
residential dual check shall be required.
      (2)   Any newly installed double check valve assembly or reduced pressure
backflow preventer shall be tested by a certified tester prior to any final
approval of occupancy being issued by the Director.
   (G)   Hazard high and low.
      (1)   The town recognizes the threat to the public water system arising
from cross-connections. All threats shall be classified by the town as “high”,
or “low” hazard, and shall require the installation of the appropriate approved
backflow prevention device(s) which are consistent with DHEC regulations, and
the cross connection control program.
      (2)   To determine the nature of existing or potential hazards, the town
shall initially focus on the high hazard facilities. This includes facilities
which offer the potential threat of contamination of a toxic nature (i.e.,
chemical, bacteriological, or industrial).
      (3)   The owner shall be responsible for notifying the Director of any
existing, proposed or modified cross-connection of which the owner has
knowledge but which has not been found by the Director.
      (4)   If the Director determines at any time that a serious threat to the
public health exists from an actual or potential cross-connection, the water
service may be terminated immediately and remain terminated until the Director
determines that a serious threat to the public health no longer exists.
   (H)   Testing requirements.
      (1)   As part of the cross-connection control program, the Director shall
require annual testing by a certified tester of all backflow prevention
devices. The Director may require more frequent testing as he deems necessary
based upon the age and condition of the device, where there is a history of
test failures, or due to the degree of hazard involved, such additional tests
are warranted. All testing will be performed at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   The certified tester performing the test shall furnish the owner
with a written report of the inspection and testing results. The certified
tester shall submit a copy of the test report to the Director, and the town
shall be responsible for maintaining those reports for a period of five years.
      (3)   Each newly installed device shall be tested by a certified tester
after installation, but before use by the owner. Each device shall be tested
annually thereafter unless the Director determines that more frequent testing
is warranted.
      (4)   Any backflow prevention device which fails during a test must be
repaired or replaced at the owner's expense. Upon completion of repairs, the
device shall be re-tested at the owner's expense. High hazard cross-connections
shall not be allowed to continue unprotected due to a malfunctioning backflow
prevention device. A compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test
date shall be established for successful repair, replacement and testing of the
device(s) in question.
   (I)   Records.
      (1)   The Director shall initiate and maintain the following records:
         (a)   Master files on cross connection surveys and inspections,
including the owner’s name, address, phone number, and location of the device
(s) if present.
         (b)   Copies of cross-connection device testing reports furnished by
the certified tester.
         (c)   The most current list of DHEC approved backflow prevention
devices.
         (d)   A current list of certified testers.
      (2)   Records shall be open for inspection by the public during normal
business hours.
   (J)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection to the
town’s water supply system without the approval of the town. Each day that such
unauthorized connection exists prior to obtaining this approval shall
constitute a separate offense and be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 per
day.
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter or of the regulations establishing a cross-connection control program
pursuant to this chapter shall be served with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and shall be given a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. Failure to correct the
violation within the time limit specified shall constitute an unlawful act
subject to the penalties set forth in division (J)(1) above.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.036 RESERVED.
§ 50.037 RESERVED.
SEWER SERVICES AND SEWER RATES
§ 50.045 SEWER SERVICE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot or land within the corporate limits of the town
on which there is located a building or structure and where town sewer service
is available within 300 feet, such building or structure shall connect to the
sewer system when erected.
   (B)   Upon refusal or non-compliance by the owner of any real estate as
mentioned in the preceding paragraph to make such sewer connection after
written notice has been given to him or her by the town, then in that event,
such property shall be deemed a nuisance and the town shall immediately notify
the appropriate authorities of the town of such refusal or non-compliance.
Further, noncompliance shall not absolve such property owner of sewer service
charges. The rate at which the non-complying property owner will be charged
shall be based on the inside town sewer rate. In the event the owner is
unknown, resides out of the state or cannot be reached with the notice speedily
enough for the necessities of public health, a notice left at the house or
premises with the tenant or occupant, or published in one of the local
newspapers shall suffice, and such nuisance shall be abated in accordance with
the law.
   (C)   As material consideration for the provision of sewer service by the
town, the property owner must fully execute the limited power of attorney and
the temporary easement for utility service, as amended.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.046 RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND SMALL INDUSTRIAL SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
INSIDE TOWN.
    Sewer service charges for those users within the incorporated limits of the
town shall be as periodically adopted and published by the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.047 RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND SMALL INDUSTRIAL SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
OUTSIDE TOWN.
   Sewer service charges for those users outside the incorporated limits of the
town shall be as periodically adopted and published by the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.048 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES FOR LARGE INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS.
   For all large industrial establishments, (use of 90,000 gallons per month or
greater), the town shall negotiate individual contracts based upon the service
required.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.049 CONNECTION FEE.
   Each new user of the town's sewer system shall pay a non-refundable
connection fee. The amount of the connection fee shall be as periodically
adopted and published by the town. The connection fee shall be paid at time of
service application.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.050 DEPOSIT FEE.
   Each new user of the town's sewer system shall pay a deposit fee in the
amount as periodically adopted and published by the town. The deposit fee shall
be paid at time of service application. The deposit shall be refunded at the
time sewer service is discontinued, provided the user has paid all owed sewer
charges and has a receipt, or other documentation acceptable to the town, that
the deposit was made.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.051 CAPACITY FEE.
   A capacity fee shall be paid by each new user of the town's sewer system.
The amount of such fee shall be as periodically adopted and published by the
town. The capacity fee shall be used by the town to aid in ensuring adequate
capacity and operation and maintenance of the sewage treatment works.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.052 TAP FEE.
   Any person, firm, and the like desiring sewer service by the town shall pay
a sewer tap fee in the amounts periodically adopted and published by the town.
The tap fee shall be paid at the time of service application. Tap fees will not
be required where service taps are existing which, in the town's opinion, are
of adequate size for service and in good working condition.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.053 PERMIT FEE.
   Those users meeting the definition of a significant industrial user shall
pay a permit fee when making application for service or renewing an industrial
user discharge permit. The fee shall be charged to cover all costs associated
with the town's review of the proposed discharge with respect to concurrence
with volume, wastewater characteristics, pretreatment requirements, as well as
administrative services for permit issuance, S.C. DHEC concurrence, and the
like. The permit fee shall be as established by the town and shall be paid at
time of service application.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.054 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   (A)   All costs associated with the administering of the town's pretreatment
program shall be paid by each significant industrial user as defined by §
50.072 of this chapter. The total cost of the pretreatment program
administration shall be equally divided among each significant industrial user.
The town shall annually prepare a pretreatment program administration budget.
The budget for each year shall be prepared accordingly to include any deficits
or surpluses from the previous year's budget. The budget amount approved shall
then be equally divided among the significant industrial users and included in
the user charges billed to each industry.
   (B)   Pretreatment program administration charges shall include costs
associated with, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Pretreatment program establishment and implementation costs;
      (2)   Updating of pretreatment program requirements due to changes in
local, state, or federal requirements;
      (3)   Updating of POTW headworks analysis;
      (4)   Review of industrial discharge monitoring reports;
      (5)   Enforcement actions without fines resulting from violations of the
program requirements;
      (6)   Compliance inspections conducted by the town;
      (7)   Compliance sampling and monitoring conducted by the town;
      (8)   Submittal of semiannual pretreatment program reports to S.C. DHEC;
      (9)   Compliance inspections and audits conducted by S.C. DHEC of
pretreatment program;
      (10)   Clerical activities associated with records retention,
correspondence, etc.
      (11)   POTW toxicity tests (influent and effluent);
      (12)   Professional/consultation fees associated with pretreatment
program administration;
      (13)   Annual publications of significant non-compliance; and
      (14)   Equipment and supplies.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.055 SEWER EXTENSIONS INSIDE TOWN.
   (A)   For residential and commercial sewer line extensions inside the town,
when feasible, the town shall furnish, construct, and install a service line (a
sewer line which can serve only one customer) to the customers property line
nearest the town's sewer main (a sewer line which is capable of serving more
than one customer). The town shall furnish the tap and pipe from the main to
the customer's property line; provided, it is located on a public right-of-way
or easement. In cases where further development is anticipated the town may
elect to extend a collection main sized to meet the future demands of the area.
   (B)   In cases where service lines must be extended across private property,
the customer shall be responsible for obtaining the required easement.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-
2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.056 SEWER SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to negotiate any and all sewer service
outside the town at its own discretion.
   (B)   For residential and commercial sewer line extensions outside the town,
when feasible the town shall furnish, construct and install a service line (a
sewer line which can serve only one customer) to the customer's property line
nearest the town's sewer main (a sewer line which is capable of serving more
than one customer). The town shall furnish the tap, and pipe from the main to
the customers property line; provided, it is located on a public right-of-way
or easement. In cases where further development is anticipated the town may
elect to extend a collection main sized to meet the future demands of the area.
   (C)   Any extension of service outside the town limits must be located on a
public right-of-way or easement. In cases where service lines must be extended
across private property, the customer shall be responsible for obtaining the
required easement(s).
   (D)   It shall be the policy of the town to require that the owner of any
property located outside of the town (a “subject property”) requesting either a
new connection, upgraded connection or a change in use of the property, which
would require a change to allocation, to the town's water utility system be
required to annex into the town at such time as the subject property is
contiguous to the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (E)   If the subject property is contiguous to the town at the time such
request is made, the owner of such property shall be required to submit an
annexation petition to the town prior to the connection to the utility system
being made.
   (F)   If the subject property is not contiguous to the corporate boundaries
of the town at the time such request is made, the owner of the subject property
shall be required to execute a declaration of annexation covenant prior to any
connection to the utility system being made, requiring the owner of the subject
property, or any subsequent owner, its heirs, assigns and successors, to take
such action necessary to annex the subject property, any portion thereof, or
any larger property to which the subject property was added, into the town at
such time as the subject property, any portion thereof, or any larger property
to which the subject property was added becomes contiguous to the corporate
boundaries of the town. the declaration of annexation covenant shall be in a
form to be approved by the Council.
   (G)   The annexation declaration will be properly processed and recorded.
   (H)   The town may connect or allow continued service to other political
subdivisions of the state, industrial properties and developments to the
municipal water system without annexation agreements when the economic benefit
is found to be in the best interest of the community. The Town Council shall
approve such on a case-by-case basis by resolution.
   (I)   The extension of any water distribution main outside the town limits
shall first have the approval of Town Council.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 14-09, passed 12- 1-14; Am. Ord. 17-09,
passed 8-7-17; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 20-01, passed 2-10-20;
Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.057 RESERVED.
SEWERS IN GENERAL
§ 50.070 GENERAL.
   (A)   To comply with the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977 (P.L. 95217) and subsequent
amendments together with other state and federal statutes and regulations, this
chapter has been prepared.
   (B)   This chapter shall set forth uniform requirements for discharges to
the town's sewer system and shall enable the town to comply with all applicable
state and federal laws and the General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing
and New Sources of Pollution (40 CFR Part 403 and/or R61-9 Part 403).
   (C)   This chapter and the regulations included herein have been established
to meet the following objectives:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and/or sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works;
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal and state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject; and
      (7)   To provide as clear of an understanding as possible to all users as
to the requirements of local, state, and federal regulations.
   (D)   This chapter shall provide the procedures, regulations, etc. necessary
to implement the requirements of this chapter through the issuance of permits
to connect to and discharge to the treatment works; authorization of monitoring
activities; authorization of compliance and enforcement actions; authorization
to establish discharge limits or other requirements for users of the treatment
works; requirements of user self-monitoring and reporting activities; and the
establishment of fees for a fair and equitable distribution of treatment works
costs.
   (E)   Administration. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Chief
Operator shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Chief Operator may be
delegated by the Chief Operator to a duly authorized town employee or
consultant.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.071 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The abbreviations shown below shall have the following meanings:
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   BMP. Best management practice.
   BMR. Baseline monitoring report.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CIU. Categorical industrial user.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   DHEC. Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   IU. Industrial user.
   mgd. Million gallons per day.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NAICS. North American Industry Classification System.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works (Town of Pendleton Sewage Treatment
Works).
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC. Standard industrial classification.
   SIU. Significant industrial user.
   SNC. Significant noncompliance.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22 ; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.072 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise noted, the terms and phrases used in this chapter
shall have the following meanings.
All other words shall be construed as having the meaning defined in Glossary of
Water and Sewage Control Engineering, published by the Water Pollution Control
Federation, Washington, D.C., or by their general usage, if undefined.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. section 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Commissioner of the State Department of Health and
Environmental Control.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3), above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPS. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in 403.5(a)(1) and (b) and/or R61-9 403.5(a)(1) and
(b). BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20 degrees C., expressed in milligrams per liter and as further
defined in Standard Methods.
   CALENDAR QUARTER. January to March, April to June, July to September, or
October to December of the same year.
   CAPACITY FEE. Fee charges to an individual or business for the purpose of
obtaining the right or privilege to discharge wastewater into the town’s
treatment works.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with
sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) that apply to a
specific category of users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N,
Parts 405-471 and/or SC R.61-9.403 Appendix C.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). Total quantity of oxygen required for the
chemical oxidation or organic matter to carbon dioxide and water, expressed in
mg/1, and based on testing methods approved by 40 CFR Part 136 or other
equivalent methods approved by EPA.
   CHIEF OPERATOR. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this chapter. The term also means a duly authorized representative of the chief
operator.
   COLOR. The color value obtained by the ADMI colorimetric method as approved
by 40 CFR Part 136 or other acceptable methods approved by EPA.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any private establishment such as restaurants, hotels,
stores, filling stations, laundromats, or recreational facilities with dry
weather wastewater flows less than 25,000 gpd and not meeting the definition of
a significant industrial user.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of discrete samples of wastewater taken
proportional to the discharge flow rate over the compositing period or if
approved by the town a combination if discrete samples of waste water taken at
equal time intervals over the compositing period.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Town of Pendleton.
   COOLING WATER. The water used for air conditioning, refrigeration, or other
cooling applications.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. A combination of water carrying normal strength sewage from
residences, commercial establishments, institutions and the like, but excluding
industrial wastes, as hereinafter defined.
   ELDER VALVES. Enables “disconnection” of sewer service lateral. All
appurtenances on the customer side of the ELDER VALVE will be privately owned.
The town will own all infrastructure downstream of the ELDER VALVE.
   ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN. A written instrument or policy which the town
shall use in implementing enforcement actions, fines, penalties, compliance
schedules, etc. should violations of this chapter occur.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, OR EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EQUALIZATION BASIN. Structures specifically constructed to avoid slugging or
surcharging the treatment works with respect to flow or sewage mass.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a “New Source.”
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in such a physical state that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation of
cooking and dispensing of food from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to the
flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   HEADWORKS ANALYSIS. An evaluation of the ability of the treatment works
(POTW) to receive pollutants and shall be performed in accordance with EPA and
DHEC regulations, guidelines, etc.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.  
      (1)   Any non-governmental, non-resident user which discharges wastewater
to the treatment works and is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classifications Manual (SIC Codes) under divisions A, B, D, E, and I;
      (2)   A user which discharges any waste water containing toxic pollutants
or which has any other adverse effect(s) on the treatment works;
      (3)   A user whose wastewater discharge must be regulated in accordance
with DHEC and EPA regulations;
      (4) A source of indirect discharge and which does constitute a “discharge
of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to Section 403 of the Act.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid waste from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The extraneous groundwater entering the treatment works
through such means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, or manhole walls.
   INFLOW. The surface water entering the wastewater disposal system from such
sources as, but not limited to: roof drains; cellar, yard and area drains;
foundation drains; drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross
connections from storm sewers; catch basins; storm waters; surface runoff; or
drainage of any fashion.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued hereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: Section 405 of the Act; the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. The specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the
town upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and
specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b) and/or SC
R.61-9 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
byproducts, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, fomites, etiologic agents,
contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory
wastes and dialysis wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. Yhe sum of all “daily discharges” measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of “daily discharges”
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all “daily discharges” measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of “daily discharges” measured
during that month.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES PERMIT). A
permit issued for the discharge of treated wastewater to the waters of the
United States.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into water courses, ponds, ditches, lakes or
other bodies or surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            (i)   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            (ii)   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which is intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
paragraph.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact  with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. Discharge which exits the treatment works into waters of the
United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of the POTWs NPDES permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation).
   PERMIT FEE. A fee to be paid by any person who is required to obtain a
permit or written approval to discharge sewage into the treatment works.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This
definition includes all federal, state and local government entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical, or biological processes, process changes, or by other
means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by
an applicable pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard, imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. 1317) which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40
CFR, Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §§ 50.110 through 50.125 of this chapter.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, which is owned by a municipality (as defined by Section
5 02(4) of the Act). This definition includes any devices and systems used in
the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes, and other
conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW Treatment Plant. The term
also means the municipality as defined in Section 502(4) of the Act, which has
jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a
treatment works.
   QUALIFIED LABORATORY. Those laboratories currently certified by S.C. DHEC to
perform wastewater analyses.
   RECURRING VIOLATION. More than one violation for the same parameter in a
calendar quarter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage to which storm, surface, and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SCAVENGER WASTES. The contents of privies, septic tanks, cesspools,
industrial wastes, chemical compounds and sludges which are hauled by truck or
other mobile conveyance.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY. Any arrangement of the devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage or industrial waste waters.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SURCHARGE. A charge for sewer service and treatment service for wastes
having characteristics different from sanitary wastes and for which additional
charges must be assessed in order for the waste to make compensation for
additional expenses incurred.
   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation of cooking and dispensing
of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be
earned freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers
with no particle greater than 3/8 inches in any dimension.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharge an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process wastewater
to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% r more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Shall be applicable to all significant industrial
users (or any other industrial user that violates paragraphs (3), (4), or (8)
below of this section and shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits;
      (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits
multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease,
and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
(daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative standard)
that the Chief Operator determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges , interference or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Chief Operator's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, which the Chief Operator determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE shall be defined as:
      (1)   Any discharge of wastewater which in flow, measured in gallons per
minute, exceeds for any period of duration longer 15 minutes, more than five
times the average 24-hour flow in gallons per minute occurring during normal
operation;
      (2)   Any discharge of wastewater which in concentration measured in mg/
1 for any duration of time exceeds by more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration measured in mg/1;
      (3) Any discharge of wastewater from an accidental spill or non-customary
batch dump which causes harm or damage to the treatment works; and
      (4)   Any discharge of wastewater regardless of flow and concentration
which causes a violation of prohibited discharge standards as hereinafter
defined in this chapter, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference
or pass through, or in any other way violate the pretreatment regulations.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation or
any other procedures recognized by the DHEC and EPA.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed “storm sewer” means a sewer which carries
storm and surface waters and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   STREET. Streets, avenues, drives, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and
viaducts and all other public highways in the sanitary area.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids which are removable by laboratory
filtering and is further defined in Standard Methods.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended matter, settleable matter and dissolved
matter, both volatile and non-volatile and as further defined in Standard
Methods.
   TOWN. The Town of Pendleton, South Carolina.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT OR SUBSTANCES. Any substances whether gaseous, liquid, or
solid, which when discharged to the POTW in sufficient quantities may tend to
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, or to constitute a hazard to
the environmental or recreation in the receiving waters of the effluent from
the POTW. These substances include but are not limited to those 126 pollutants,
or combination of those pollutants, listed as toxic in regulations promulgated
by the EPA under the provisions of 307 (33 U.S.C. 1317) of the Act, or other
acts.
   TREATMENT WORKS or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. All facilities for
collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage or industrial waste
waters.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. Any person who directly or indirectly discharges,
causes or permits the discharge of wastewater to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
including cooling water, holding tank waste, and infiltration/inflow whether
treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
      (1)   SANITARY WASTEWATER. The combination of liquid and water carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment and shall include the wastes
from pretreatment facilities and cooling water.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies of accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.073 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)    All persons who meet the definition of a significant industrial user
as defined in §
50.072 of this chapter shall be required to obtain a discharge permit from the
town prior to the discharge of wastewater into the town's treatment works.
   (B)   Existing industrial users currently permitted to discharge to the
town's treatment works shall apply for renewal of their permit at least 180
days prior to the expiration of the current permit.
   (C)   Application for new discharge permits or permit renewals shall be made
in writing on forms provided by the town and shall include all information
required in §
50.136 of this chapter.
   (D)   Prior to the issuance of a discharge permit by the town, the
industrial user must have paid in full all fees due to the town to include but
not limited to:
      (1)   Application fees;
      (2)   Capacity fees;
      (3)   Past due user charges; and
      (4)   Other fees or costs deemed appropriate by the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.074 REQUIRED CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   All persons within the incorporated limits of the town shall connect
to public sewers when such services are readily available and can be connected
to at a reasonable cost to the town as determined by the town. Reference is
further made to §
50.045 of this chapter. Should connection to the public sewer not be considered
reasonable by the town then such persons desiring sewage service shall connect
to a private sewage disposal system as described in §
50.076 of this chapter.
   (B)   Elder valves on services. All services for lots which do not have
domestic water service by the town and have conventional gravity sewer served
by the town shall have an elder valve at the road right-of-way or edge of
easement. The elder valve shall be installed by the home builder's plumber and
inspected by the town. The town reserves the right to utilize the elder valve
in the event that the property owner is delinquent on sewer bill and assumes no
liability for any damages sustained by the customer by reason thereof for the
interruption.
      (1)   If the sewer service is disconnected for non-payment, it shall be
the responsibility of the current account holder or financially responsible
person to pay, in full, the severance fee and all past due charges in order to
restore service.
      (2)   If the existing sewer service does not have an elder valve
installed and must be disconnected for non-payment, the town will install an
elder valve to allow for disconnection. The cost to install the elder valve
will be added to the account. It shall be the responsibility of the current
account holder or financially responsible person to pay, in full, the severance
fee, all past due charges, and the cost of the elder valve installation in
order to restore service. Fees determined by Town Council each year in their
fee schedule.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22 ; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.074A REQUIRED INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   (A)   Any user of the Pendleton sanitary sewer system who has a private
sewer service line which:
      (1)   Is below or near the level of the sewer collection line; or
      (2)   Has previously back flowed or surcharged; or
      (3)   Is, after study and determination by the Pendleton Water
Department, in danger of a backflow or surcharge during periods of heavy rain;
or
      (4)   Is new residential construction that is either (A)(1) or (A)(3),
shall, after receiving written notice from the town, install within 30 days at
the expense of the user, a town approved swing check backflow preventer
fixture. Said written notice may be by mail to the occupant of the property.
   (B)   Failure to install the backflow preventor within 60 days thereafter
shall be a violation of this chapter and the standard building codes. Violators
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned no more than 30 days. Each day
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-2-22 ; Am. Ord. 23-06,
passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.075 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or make a connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall make a connection which introduces sanitary wastewater
into the town’s storm sewer system.
   (C)   No person shall make a connection to any portion of the town’s
treatment works which has not received the necessary approvals or which
required fees have not been paid in full.
   (D)   Such connections as noted above shall be considered a misdemeanor and
such persons violating this section shall be responsible for all costs incurred
by the town to ensure full compliance of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.076 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available and where public sanitary
sewer service cannot be provided at a reasonable cost to the town, those
persons desiring sanitary sewer service shall connect to a private sewage
disposal system. Such private sewage disposal system shall be designed,
constructed, operated and maintained in full compliance with requirements,
regulations, etc. of S.C. DHEC. Such compliance prohibits the discharge of
septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow to any open drain, ditch, stream or
well-penetrating water bearing formation. The town shall not be responsible for
any costs associated with the design, construction, operation, and maintenance
of such private sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.077 ABANDONMENT OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available and/or if in the
opinion of the town that service can be supplied at a reasonable cost to the
town, such private sewage disposal systems shall be abandoned and direct sewer
service connection be made to the treatment works of the town.
   (B)   The town shall notify the owner of the private sewage disposal system
in writing that such system is to be abandoned and connection made to the
town's treatment works.
   (C)   Connection to the town's treatment works shall be made within 60 days
of written notification by the town, unless otherwise authorized by the town in
writing.
   (D)   Abandonment of private sewage disposal systems shall be in full
compliance of all guidelines, regulations, etc. of S.C. DHEC. The town shall be
provided a letter of approval from S.C. DHEC of the abandonment activities.
   (E)   All private sewage disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge and
filled with clean gravel or dirt within the time noted above in division (C).
   (F)   The town shall not be responsible for any costs incurred by the owner
of a private sewage disposal system in the abandonment of such disposal system.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.078 COSTS BORNE BY OWNER/USER.
   (A)   All costs and expenses associated with the installation of the
building sewer to the property line, special interceptions, flow equalization
structures, pretreatment facilities, and sampling and monitoring manholes shall
be borne by the owner/user. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
above facilities.
   (B)   Owners/users served by the town's treatment works shall be responsible
for payment of user charges, application, capacity, and permit fees and when
applicable, fees for the administrating and enforcement of the town's
pretreatment program.
   (C)   All industrial users which have received discharge permits from the
town shall pay in equal amounts the costs associated with the implementing,
administrating, and enforcing the town's pretreatment program. Such costs shall
be noted as pretreatment program fees.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.079 UNCOVERING OR INJURING OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person not authorized by the town shall uncover, make connections
with or opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances with
first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   (B)   No person shall do or cause to be done any injury of any kind in any
manner to any part of the town's treatment works.
   (C)   Those persons violating this chapter shall be responsible for all
costs incurred by the town in ensuring compliance with this section; repair of
damages or injuries to the treatment works; and other costs deemed appropriate
by the town which would be considered costs beyond the normal operation and
maintenance costs of the system entire.
   (D)   A violation of this section will be considered a misdemeanor and
prosecution shall be in accordance with other town ordinances.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.080 DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION, OF EQUIPMENT OR MATERIALS.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or materials belonging to
the town or to S.C. DHEC and used for the purpose of making measurements,
tests, or examinations and left upon the premises of a person discharging
sewerage into the sewerage system. This protection against damage shall also
apply to any part of the sewerage system. Any person found violating this
section shall be subject to immediate arrest and prosecution.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.081 DAMAGE TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The town shall not be held liable for damage to private property unless such
damage is caused as the result of negligence on the part of the town of any of
its employees lawfully acting on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.082 MULTIPLE SEWER SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, without written consent of the town, make more than
one connection to the public sewer to provide sewer service to his or her
residence, business, institution, industry, etc.
   (B)   Should more than one connection exist for any residence, business,
institution, industry, etc. and in the opinion of the town that a single
connection would be to the best interest of the town, then upon written
notification by the town such multiple connections shall be removed in a manner
acceptable to the town and a single connection provided, all within 60 days
from date of notification by the town. The town will not be responsible for any
costs associated with the elimination of the multiple services.
   (C)   Except by the issuance of special permits for unusual cases where two
buildings are located on the same lot with no feasible alternative, separated
building connections to the public sewer are required.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.083 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, upon examination by the town, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.084 MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION FOR SEWERS AND MANHOLES.
   All sewers, including building sewers, manholes, etc. to be connected with
or have discharge to the town's treatment works shall be constructed of the
following:
   (A)   Sewers/building sewers.
      (1)   Vitrified clay pipe (V.C.P.) complying with ASTM C200 and with
compression type, flexible joint conforming to ASTM C425;
      (2)   Ductile iron pipe (D.I.P.) with mechanical or pushon joint
complying with ANSI A2 1.11;
      (3)   ABS pipe and fittings conforming to ASTM D2661;
      (4)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe conforming to ASIM D3034;
      (5)   Other materials approved by the town in writing.
   (B)   Manholes. Use precast concrete manholes. Manholes constructed
otherwise will not be acceptable and must be removed and replaced prior to
service start-up.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.085 CONNECTING OF BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   Unless otherwise approved by the town in writing, all building sewers
shall be connected to the public sewers in a manner to permit gravity flow of
building sewage.
   (B)   In buildings which the building sewer is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, the owner shall install such lifting/pumping device
acceptable to the town. Location of the lifting/pump device shall ensure no
release of sewer gas to the building(s) and shall be readily accessible for
maintenance activities. The town will not be responsible for any cost of the
lifting/pump installation, operation, or maintenance.
   (C)   Installation of the building sewers must comply with all applicable
building and plumbing codes.
   (D)   Prior to the covering-up or start-up of the building sewer, lifting/
pumping device, etc. the town shall inspect such and issue its approval of the
installation. Defects or items found to violate applicable sewer, building or
plumbing codes shall be immediately corrected by the owner and reinspected by
the town.
   (E)   Elder valves shall be installed on all sewer services that are not
supplied domestic water by the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.086 CONNECTIONS BY LICENSED CONTRACTOR.
   The installation and connection of the building sewer, lifting/pumping
devices, and the like shall be completed by a person(s) whose primary functions
or business is to perform such work and who is properly licensed by the town to
perform such service.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.087 OSHA REQUIREMENTS.
   All applicable OSHA requirements must be met during the construction,
maintenance, and the like of any portion of the treatment works, building
sewers, and the like.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.088 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease and/or sand in excessive amounts. Such interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units but may be required
for industrial or commercial establishments, public eating places, hospitals,
hotels, abattoirs, or other institutions. Such interceptors shall be readily
accessible for cleaning by the owner and inspection by the town and shall be
maintained by the owner at his expense and in continuously efficient operation
at all times.
   (B)   All such interceptors shall conform to the requirements of the
'Standard Plumbing Codes' as issued by the Southern Building Code Congress
International, Inc., its latest edition/revision, and all other applicable
codes or requirements.
   (C)   The size/capacity of the interceptor installed shall be equivalent to
the average daily discharge volume of wastewater from the user unless otherwise
directed by the town, but in no event shall the interceptor be less than 1500
gallons in capacity.
   (D)   Any person required by the town to install an interceptor shall submit
plans and specifications on the interceptor installation. Such plans and
specifications must include at a minimum the following:
      (1)   Sizing requirements for the interceptor;
      (2)   Site plan showing the location of the interceptor in relation to
existing or proposed structures, utilities, parking areas, etc.;
      (3)   Detail of the interceptor;
      (4)   Setting details of the interceptor with appropriate elevations; and
      (5)   Other information deemed appropriate by the town.
   (E)   The town shall inspect the interceptor during its installation as well
as prior to startup. Any defects or code violations shall be immediately
corrected and the installation reinspected by the town.
   (F)   The owner shall maintain records of maintenance activities to include
cleaning of the interceptors. Such records shall be readily available for
review by the town. Should, in the opinion of the town that additional
maintenance is required, the owner shall perform such immediately and failure
to perform such will be considered a violation of this chapter and the town may
take whatever steps it feels appropriate to ensure compliance.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.089 EQUALIZATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Whenever the total volume of wastes to be discharged by any person in
any one day shall exceed the limits set forth in this chapter or discharge
permits issued by the town or where such wastes have considerable variation in
flow rate or pollution value, such persons shall be required, at any time when
in the opinion of the town it is considered necessary, to construct holding or
storage tanks in order to equalize the discharge of wastes over a 24-hour
period. Such tanks shall be so equipped to prohibit odor and to thoroughly mix
the waste so that its quality shall be uniform when discharged to the sewerage
system.
   (B)   Equalization facilities installed shall include a flow measurement
device. Such flow measurement devices shall include totalizing of flow
discharged and indication of flow rate at any given time. The metering device
shall also be supplied with a recorder/chart. A connection shall also be
supplied for the use of a flow proportional sampler. Such metering device shall
be housed in a weather proof enclosure.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, etc. shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer in the State of South Carolina for submittal, review, and
approval by the town.
   (D)   The owner shall be solely responsible for the design, construction,
operation, and maintenance of the equalization facilities. The owner shall also
be responsible for any fees charged by the town to review and approve the
design and construction of the facilities.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.090 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town performs a headworks analysis with every issued NPDES permit.
This headworks analysis calculates the loading allowable for the wastewater
treatment plant. This loading is approved by the approval authority with each
pretreatment program update. This headworks loading is established to protect
against pass through and interference. This headworks loading is used to
determine the permit limits for the industrial wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Pretreatment facilities shall also be provided by those users where
discharges are regulated by Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards or more
restricted local loading.
   (C)   Each owner/user required to install pretreatment facilities shall
obtain a discharge permit from the town and shall abide by all applicable
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The town will not be responsible for any costs associated with the
design, construction, operation and/or maintenance of any pretreatment
facility.
   (E)   Industrial wastewater permit limits apply at the point where the
wastewater is discharged to the POTW. The town may apply mass limitations in
addition to the concentration-based limitations.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.091 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF INTERCEPTOR, EQUALIZATION, AND
PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Those persons having interceptors, equalization and/or pretreatment
facilities shall be solely responsible for the safe and efficient operation and
maintenance of such facility(ies).
   (B)   The owner/user shall employ the services of a “certified operator”
should such be required by the S.C. DHEC. A copy of the operator's
certification license shall be forwarded to the town and acknowledged by the
town prior to start-up of the owner's facilities.
   (C)   Those users operating and maintaining equalization and/or pretreatment
facilities must have readily available an operation and maintenance manual for
the particular equalization and/or pretreatment facilities.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance records must be kept by each user of each
day's operation. Such records shall include at a minimum the following:
      (1)   Daily volume of wastewater discharged to the town's treatment
works;
      (2)   Description of daily operation and maintenance activities;
      (3)   Laboratory or field testing performed and results recorded, if
available;
      (4)   Activities which are considered violations of the user's discharge
permit or any provision of this chapter;
      (5)   Notification of violations (record date, time and individual
notified);
      (6)   Types and amounts of chemicals used in the treatment process; and
      (7)   Other information deemed appropriate to describe the events of a
particular day. Each day's operation and maintenance records must be signed by
the individual responsible for the facilities operation.
   (E)   All records must be kept on-site in suitable and orderly facilities
and must be readily available for inspection by the town.
   (F)   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the owner/user's expense.
   (G)   Should, in the opinion of the town, state or federal officials
additional effort be required in the operation and maintenance of any such
facilities, the owner/ user shall immediately perform such at his or her
expense.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22 ; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.092 SAMPLING AND MONITORING MANHOLES (CONTROL STRUCTURES).
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by the town in writing, those persons
required under this chapter to obtain a discharge permit from the town shall
construct, operate and maintain a sampling and monitoring manhole or other
acceptable control structure.
   (B)   The design and installation of the control structure shall be such to
ensure its successful use in sampling and measuring the wastewater discharge.
Measuring or flow monitoring equipment shall be capable of continuously
recording the wastewater flow as well as totalizing such flow with the use of
an eight- digit non-resettable totalizer. The flow monitoring equipment shall
also provide a suitable connection for the use of a flow proportional sampler.
   (C)   The flow measuring and recording equipment shall be capable of
measuring the full range of flow patterns existing at the facility.
   (D)   The control structure shall be located in the building sewer just
prior to the entrance of the public sewer. Generally, this would be near the
property line or right-of-way for the public sewer.
   (E)   Access to the control structure shall be provided the town 24 hours a
day. Vehicular access, parking area adjacent to the control structure, etc.
shall be provided by the owner for use by the town at all times. Such vehicular
access shall be maintained at the owner's expense.
   (F)   Exterior lighting, power supply, security fencing, shall be required
at the control structure.
   (G)   Plans, specifications, design calculations, etc. of the control
structure shall be provided to the town for review and approval prior to the
installation of such facilities. The town shall inspect and approve all such
control structures prior to use.
   (H)   Existing users who have not received written approval of existing
control structures shall submit all information required above to the town for
review/approval. Should improvements be required at the control structure to
meet the requirements of this chapter, the user shall perform such at his or
her expense and under compliance schedule with the town.
   (I)   All costs associated with the design, construction, operation and
maintenance of the control structure shall be borne by the owner.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.093 RIGHT TO ENTER, INSPECT, SAMPLE, AND MEASURE.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of ensuring compliance
with this chapter and upon presentation of proper credentials and
identification, town, state, and EPA personnel shall be permitted to enter upon
any property of users for the purpose of inspecting and copying records,
facility inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, or testing in the area
of the control structure. Any user completing and filing an application to
discharge wastewater shall thereby grant the town permission to enter his or
her premises for said purposes. Where a user has security measures in force
which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, town personnel shall be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
   (B)   When in the performance of repair or maintenance on any portion of the
town’s treatment works lying within a duly negotiated easement, the town shall
have the right to enter and perform such required work, inspection, etc. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.094 METER REQUIRED WHEN WATER NOT SUPPLIED.
   (A)    In all cases where commercial or industrial premises or facilities
are connected to the town's sewage disposal system and are not supplied water
by the town, the town shall require that the water used be measured by a meter
acceptable to the town and that sewer service charges be assessed against that
quality and quantity of sewage flow in exactly the same manner as if the water
were being supplied by the town. The cost of the installation and maintenance
of the meter shall be borne by the customer exclusively.
   (B)   Flow meters installed shall comply with applicable requirements of §
50.092 of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.095 AGREEMENT WITH INDUSTRIAL CONCERN.
   (A)    No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing an agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby industrial waste of unusual design, strength or character may
be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern.
   (B)   Any such agreement between the town and any industrial concern must
ensure full compliance of National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and other
applicable federal or state requirements.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.096 INFILTRATION/INFLOW REQUIREMENTS.
    The maximum allowable infiltration/inflow allowance for new service lines
is 200 gallons per day/inch-diameter/mile. The town may require repairs or
replacement of the existing service lines in order to meet the same
infiltration/inflow allowance requirements as specified for new service lines
and connections. In such cases, all work shall be performed by or under the
supervision of a licensed contractor and in accordance with the applicable
plumbing code and at the expense of the owner/user. The town may repair or
replace the existing connections at the expense of the owner/user or may permit
the owner to have such repairs made under supervision by a licensed contractor
at the expense of the owner/user.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.097 RECORDS KEPT OF SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The town shall keep a permanent and accurate record of the location, depth,
and direction of all new sewer connections, including such land marks as may be
necessary to make an adequate description.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.098 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, waste water
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from Chief Operator's inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Chief Operator, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR
2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22 ; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.099 CONNECTION CONSTITUTES CONSENT.
   Connection by a user to the treatment works of the town, whether or not said
user is within the town’s incorporated limits, shall constitute consent and
agreement by the user to be bound by and to abide with all provisions of this
chapter.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Chief Operator shall enter into an
intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A), above,
the Chief Operator shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Chief Operator may deem necessary.
   (C)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by division (A), above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits,
including required baseline monitoring reports (BMRs) which are at least as
stringent as those set out in §
50.023 of this chapter. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the town's
ordinance or local limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by the Chief
Operator; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Chief Operator;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Chief Operator with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Chief Operator access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing municipality's jurisdictional boundaries
for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary
by the Chief Operator; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.100 RESERVED.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGES PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS
§ 50.110 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   A user may not introduce into a POTW any pollutant(s) which cause pass
through or interference. These general prohibitions and the specific
prohibitions in §
50.111 of this chapter apply to each ser introducing pollutants into a POTW
whether or not the user is subject to other national pretreatment standards or
any national, state, or local pretreatment requirements.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any sewage or other
polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
      (1)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW.
      (2)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (3)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with the POTW.
      (4)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (5)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (6)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW.
      (7)   Pollutants from CERCLA sites, unless the POTW has in place an
approved pretreatment program. The POTW must request, prior to actual discharge
of the pollutants, the approval authority's concurrence with the proposed
discharge. the approval authority may require any special conditions or
monitoring of this discharge that appears appropriate.
(Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06,
passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.111 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
    No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
waters or wastes to any public sewer or natural outlet:
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140º F. or 60º C. using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (B)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C. (104°F.) unless the
approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature
limits.
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas and/or having a closed cup flash point of less
than 140°F using test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (D)   Any water or waste having a pH less than 6.5 standard units nor
greater than 10.0 standard units;
   (E)   Fats, wax, grease, or oils of petroleum origin, whether emulsified or
not, in excess of 30mg/1 or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between 32ºF. (0ºC.) and 140ºF. (60ºC.);
   (F)   Fats, wax, grease, or oils of animal or vegetable origin, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32ºF. (0ºC.) and 140ºF.
(60ºC.);
   (G)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solids or viscous
substances capable of causing obstructions or other interferences with proper
operation of the sewer system;
   (H)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD etc.) at
flow rate and/or concentration which will cause the pollutant to pass through
to the receiving waters or interfere with the town’s treatment works;
   (I)   Noxious liquids, gases, or solids which either singly or by
interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance or
hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their
maintenance and repair;
   (J)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapor or
fumes within the treatment works in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
   (K)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
   (L)   Any water or waste which imparts color and cannot be removed by the
treatment works;
   (M)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, unless approved by the town;
   (N)   Water or waste considered to be radioactive or containing isotopes.
   (O)   Any water or waste which can be defined as a slug discharge by this
chapter;
   (P)   Substances which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other products
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the process. In no case shall a
substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with
sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed under
Section 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting
sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the SDWA, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
   (Q)   Any water or wastes which causes the failure of required toxicity
tests at the treatment works;
   (R)   Water or wastes containing, in sufficient concentrations, such
substances which create excessive foaming in the treatment works;
   (S)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residue from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes; and
   (T)   Any other such water or wastes which the town deems harmful to its
treatment works, personnel, the public and/or the waters of the United States.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22 ; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.112 SPECIFIC LOCAL LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall develop specific local limitations when the need arises
to ensure compliance with the following:
      (1)   Safe and efficient operation and maintenance of the town's
treatment works in its entirety;
      (2)   To ensure compliance with NPDES permits;
      (3)   To ensure compliance of all national pretreatment standards
prohibited discharges.
   (B)   Where specific local limitations are developed, such limitations shall
be deemed pretreatment standards for the purposes of Section 3 07(d) of the
Act.
   (C)   Upon development of a specific local limitation(s), all existing users
subject to such limitation(s) shall achieve full compliance of such within
three years of the development of the limitations unless a shorter time is
specified in the limitation. All new users shall comply with specific local
limitations within 90 days of initiating a discharge.
   (D)   Specific local limitations shall not be developed and enforced without
individual notice to persons or groups who have requested such notice in
writing and an opportunity to respond.
   (E)   Specific local limits and compliance schedules shall be developed by
the town and included in the user's discharge permit. The town is authorized to
develop local limits pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5(c) and/or R61-9 403.5(c).
   (F)   The town may develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by ordinance or
in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local limits and the
requirements of §
50.110.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.113 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
    State requirements and limitations shall apply in any case where they are
more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in this
subchapter.
(Ord. No. 84-9, 11(5), 12-12-84; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04,
passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07, passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.114 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
    A user shall have an affirmative defense in any action brought against him
alleging a violation of the general prohibitions in §
50.110 above and specific prohibitions in §
50.111 above where the user can demonstrate that:
   (A)   It did not know or have reason to know that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, would cause pass
through or interference; and
   (B)   A local limit designed to prevent pass through and/or interference, as
the case may be, was developed in accordance with §
50.112 for each pollutant in the user's discharge that caused pass through or
interference, and the user was in compliance with each such local limit
directly prior to and during the pass through or interference; or
   (C)   If a local limit designed to prevent pass through and/or interference,
as the case may be, has not been developed in accordance with §
50.112 for the pollutant(s) that caused the pass through or interference, the
user's discharge directly prior to and during the pass through or interference
did not change substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior
discharge activity when the POTW was regularly in compliance with the POTW's
NPDES permit requirements and, in the case of interference, applicable
requirements for sewage sludge use or disposal.
Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.115 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
    Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found in 40
CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of national categorical pretreatment standards
for an industrial subcategory, each national categorical pretreatment standard,
if more stringent than the corresponding standard or limit imposed under this
chapter for the specific industrial subcategory, shall immediately supersede
the standards or limits previously imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance with national categorical pretreatment standards for
existing discharges or sources subject to such standards or limits presently or
hereafter become subject to such standards or limits shall be within three
years following promulgation of the standards unless a shorter compliance time
is specified in the standard.
   (C)   All new discharges or sources shall comply with national categorical
pretreatment standards within 90 days of initiation of a discharge.
   (D)   The town shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 CFR, Section 403.12 and/or R61-9 403.12.
   (E)   Industrial categories subject to national pretreatment standards are:
Aluminum forming
Asbestos manufacturing
Battery manufacturing
Builders paper
Carbon black manufacturing
Cement manufacturing
Centralized waste treatment
Coal mining
Coil coating
Concentrated animal feeding operations
Concentrated aquatic animal production
Copper forming
Dairy products processing
Electrical and electronic components
Electroplating
Explosives manufacturing
Feedlots
Ferroalloy manufacturing
Fertilizer manufacturing
Fruits and vegetables processing
Glass manufacturing
Grain mills
Gum and wood chemicals
Hospital
Ink formulating
Inorganic chemicals manufacturing
Iron and steel manufacturing
Landfills   
Leather tanning and finishing   
Meat and poultry products   
Metal finishing   
Metal molding and casting
Metal products and machinery
Mineral mining and processing
Nonferrous metals forming and metal powders
Nonferrous metals manufacturing
Oil and gas extraction
Ore mining and dressing
Organic chemicals, plastics, and synthetic fibers
Paint formulating
Paving and roofing materials (tars and asphalt)
Pesticide chemicals
Petroleum refining
Pharmaceutical manufacturing
Phosphate manufacturing
Photographic
Plastic molding and forming
Porcelain enameling
Pulp, paper, and paperboard
Rubber manufacturing
Seafood processing
Soap and detergent manufacturing
Steam electric power generating
Sugar processing
Timber products processing
Textile mills
Transportation equipment cleaning
Waste combustors
 
   (F)    State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in cases
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this subchapter.
   (G)   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or the state.
   (H)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Chief Operator
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e) and/or R61-
9 403.6(f).
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.116 LIMITATION OF WASTEWATER FLOW AND STRENGTH.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastewater in excess of the concentration
and/or mass limit set forth in their discharge permit issued by the town or any
national pretreatment standards.
   (B)   All permit limits shall be established on a case-by-case basis in
accordance with EPA and DHEC regulations and an approved headworks analysis.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.117 REVISION OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to revise and make more stringent than the
national categorical pretreatment standards any limitations necessary to comply
with the objectives of this chapter.
   (B)   Such revised limitations shall be incorporated in all discharge
permits issued by the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.118 DILUTION RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally attempt to dilute, with the increase of
process water, a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with his discharge permit and/or other
limitations developed by the town or state.
   (B)   Dilution restrictions may be waived only if the national categorical
pretreatment standards specifically allow dilution and the town determines that
such would otherwise comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The town may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution
to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases
when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.119 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE AND SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The Chief Operator shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Chief Operator may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. an accidental discharge/slug control plan
shall address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges.
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals.
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the prohibited discharges.
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site run-off, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measure for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (B)   Should in the opinion of the town, S.C. DHEC, and/or EPA, the user
must provide facilities to ensure protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter, the user
shall do such at his or her own expense. Installation of such facilities shall
be accomplished based on an approved compliance schedule.
   (C)   Detailed plans, specifications, proposed operating procedures, etc.
shall be submitted to the town and S.C. DHEC for review and approval, prior to
the commencing of construction.
   (D)   New industrial users, who must comply with the provisions of this
section, shall not commence discharge of waste water until such facilities are
approved by the town and S.C. DHEC.
   (E)   Review and approval of plans, specifications, operating procedures,
etc. shall not relieve the user of the responsibility to modify the facility as
necessary to ensure conformance of this chapter.
   (F)   In the case of an accidental discharge or slug load, it shall be the
responsibility of the user to immediately and verbally notify the town of the
incident. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume and corrective actions taken and those proposed to be
taken, if known.
   (G)   Within five days following an accidental discharge or slug, the user
shall submit a detailed written report to the town of the incident. The report
shall describe the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken to
prevent future occurrences.
   (H)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of an
accidental or dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all employees
who may cause or suffer a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (I)   The town has the authority to halt or prevent the discharge of any
user for noncompliance to protect the system's collection and treatment.
   (J)   Failure to comply with provisions set forth in this section will be
considered significant non-compliance.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.120 BYPASS.
   For the purposes of this section, BYPASS means the intentional diversion of
wastestreams from any portion of a user's treatment facility.
   (A)   No user may allow bypass of any portion of a required pretreatment
facility unless:
      (1)   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE is defined as
substantial physical damage to property, damage to the treatment facilities
which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of
natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a
bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in
production.
      (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
      (3)   The industrial user submitted notices as required under this
section.
   (B)   The town may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the town determines that it will meet the conditions listed
in division (A) above. The town may, if it deems necessary, place as a
condition of any bypass allowance the concurrence of DHEC and EPA officials.
   (C)   An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are
subject to the provisions listed under divisions (D) and (E) of this section.
   (D)   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the town, if possible at least ten days before the
date of the bypass.
   (E)   An industrial user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass
that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the town within 24 hours from
the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the industrial user becomes
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the
bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and
times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the bypass. The town may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (F)   Failure to comply with provisions set forth in the section will be
considered as a significant violation.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.121 UPSET PROVISION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary non-compliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
industrial user. An upset does not include non-compliance to the extent caused
by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C), below, are met.
   (C)   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of
upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs, or other relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the cause(s)
of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
      (3)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to the
town and S.C. DHEC within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of non-
compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue;
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the non-compliance.
         (d)   In any enforcement proceeding the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
         (e)   In the usual exercise of prosecutorial discretion, town and S.C.
DHEC enforcement personnel should review any claims that noncompliance was
caused by an upset. No determinations made in the course of the review
constitute final town action subject to judicial review. Industrial users will
have the opportunity for a judicial determination of any claim of upset only in
an enforcement action brought for non-compliance with categorical pretreatment
standards.
         (f)   The industrial user shall control production or all discharges
to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment
standards upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the
facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This
requirement applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary
source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.122 NOTICE OF PROCESS CHANGE OR INTERRUPTION OF OPERATION.
   Notice shall be given by the user to the town in advance or at the earliest
possible time when normal operations of the industry will be interrupted for 48
hours or longer, when wastewater will not be discharged, or prior to
implementation of a process change which will alter characteristics of the
wastewater.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.123 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities shall be provided by those users as described
in §
50.090 of this chapter for compliance with all provisions of this chapter,
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, state, and federal
regulations, whichever is more stringent.
   (B)   (1)   Users required to install pretreatment facilities shall obtain
the necessary permits to construct and operate from S.C. DHEC and the town.
Detailed design/construction drawings, specifications, calculations, outline of
operating procedures, engineering reports, etc. shall be submitted to the town
for review. Detailed drawings shall show at a minimum the following:
         (a)   Site plan of all facilities;
         (b)   Floor plans;
         (c)   Piping plans;
         (d)   Grading plans;
         (e)   Pretreatment facilities;
         (f)   Control structure;
         (g)   Instrumentation/electrical plans for pretreatment facilities and
control structures;
         (h)   Equipment locations and identification;
         (i)   Other information deemed appropriate by the town.
      (2)   All engineering documents submitted to the town must be acceptable
to the town prior to being constructed. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the owner/user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Operation and maintenance of pretreatment facilities shall conform to
requirements as set forth in §
50.091 of this chapter.
   (D)   Initial pretreatment facility start-up shall be done, if possible,
under non-loading conditions for equipment and instrumentation check-out.
   (E)   No discharge may occur from any pretreatment facility prior to
obtaining of all necessary operating permits and the approval of an accidental
discharge and slug control plan, if required. The lack of a certified operator,
employed and on-site, will also delay the startup and discharge of the
pretreatment facility.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.124 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the town may require industrial users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the treatment works
and determine the industrial users compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Chief Operator may require any person discharging into the
treatment works to install and maintain, on their property and at their
expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of
flow. An individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Chief Operator, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by Chief Operator and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired by the owner/user at
their expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (E)   Should in the event that the town determines that modifications/
additions to existing pretreatment facilities are necessary to achieve full
compliance with this chapter and national pretreatment standards, the user
shall do such under an approved compliance schedule and at his or her own
expense.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.125 HAULED WASTE.
   Portalets may be introduced into the POTW only at locations designated by
the Chief Operator, and at such times as are established by the Chief Operator.
Such waste shall not violate any provision of this chapter or any other
requirements established by the town. The Chief Operator may require the
haulers to obtain individual wastewater discharge permits.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 50.135 GENERAL.
   (A)   Industrial users who can be defined as a significant industrial user
as shown in §
50.072 of this chapter shall obtain a permit to discharge from the town.
   (B)   Those industrial and commercial users, regardless of classification,
who receive public sewer service from the town but no public water service must
also obtain a permit to discharge from the town.
   (C)   The Chief Operator may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (D)   All other users who cannot be classified as users in divisions (A),
(B) and (C) above will not be required to obtain a permit to discharge.
   (E)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
waste water discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
50.185 through
50.189 of this chapter. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and
state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.136 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO DISCHARGE.
   (A)   All industrial users, regardless of classification, and who are
seeking service or seeking renewal of existing permits, shall submit an
application for permit to discharge to the town. Application forms shall be
supplied by the town. All applications submitted to the town shall be
accompanied by the required application fee. applications not accompanied by
the application fee will not be processed.
   (B)   Applications submitted to the town shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name, mailing address, and street address (if different from
mailing address);
      (2)   Name of the operator and owner;
      (3)   Industrial category description, NAICS numbers, and SIC number(s);
      (4)   Telephone, telefax number(s), and email addresses;
      (5)   A general description of the industrial operation, its finished
products, number of employees, working hours, number of shifts, etc.
      (6)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant production
processes on the premises;
      (7)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
      (8)   Description of operations.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production, and SIC and NAICS numbers for the facility. This description should
include a schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the
POTW from the regulated processes;
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day).
      (9)   Name and location of other similar industrial facilities operated
by the person(s) making application to the town;
      (10)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical/plumbing plans, and details to
show all drains, sewers, sewer connections, etc. and by the size, location and
elevation of each. These plans must show all points of discharge;
      (11)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit (a
site plan showing the locations of the monitoring points must be included);
      (12)   Description of wastewater discharge rates to include:
         (a)   Average daily flow
         (b)   Maximum hourly flow
         (c)   Instantaneous or batch type flows
         (d)   Time and duration of discharges;
         (e)   Maximum daily flow
         (f)   Wastewater flows should be segregated to sanitary, industrial/
process, cooling water, and total.
         (g)   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other
streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula set
forth in the pretreatment regulations.
      (13)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including but not limited to those mentioned in this chapter. The results of
sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass,
where required by the standard or by the Chief Operator, of regulated
pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process. Instantaneous, daily
maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass, where required, shall
be reported. Should the user operate a similar facility not served by the town,
analytical data, discharge monitoring results, etc. from such facility shall be
submitted with the application;
      (14)   The sample shall be representative of daily operation and shall be
analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
50.162 of this chapter. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as
required by the Chief Operator or the applicable standards to determine
compliance with the standard.
      (15)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the Chief
Operator, or regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
50.162 of this chapter.
      (16)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
wastewater which are limited by any local limitations, or national categorical
pretreatment standards, a statement regarding whether or not the person is
complying or will comply with national categorical pretreatment standards on a
consistent basis and, if not, whether additional pretreatment or operational
modifications are required to comply with applicable limitations or national
categorical pretreatment standards, or local limitations;
      (17)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on the requirement in this chapter.
      (18)   Wastewater operator name, grade, license numbers, contact
information must be included in the application, if applicable. The operator or
record and the roster of operators should be submitted;
      (19)   Acknowledgment by the applicant that he or she will:
         (a)   Furnish any additional information which the town believes is
appropriate in the evaluation of the application;
         (b)   Accept and abide by all provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable local, state, and federal requirements;
         (c)   Operate and maintain any pretreatment facility, as may be deemed
necessary, to ensure compliance with this chapter and national pretreatment
standards.
         (d)   To cooperate fully at all times with the town, DHEC, and EPA in
their inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial wastes, and any
facilities provided for pretreatment.
         (e)   To notify the town immediately after becoming aware of any
accident, spill, slug, or other occurrence that may produce a violation of this
chapter, NPDES permit, etc.
      (20)   All wastewater discharge permit applications and industrial user
reports must contain the following certification statement and be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user. The certification statement
can be found in § 50.164. If the designation of an authorized representative is
no longer accurate because a different individual or position has
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility or overall
responsibility for environmental matters for the company, a new written
authorization satisfying the requirements of this ordinance must be submitted
to the Chief Operator prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an
authorized representative.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a complete application package, the town will within
30 days issue its initial approval or disapproval of the application. Formal or
final approval of the application for service will be granted with the issuance
of a permit to discharge.
   (D)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
   (E)   Those persons denied service or service approved subject to conditions
he or she deems unacceptable, shall have the right to request a formal hearing
under the procedures established in §§
50.185 through
50.189 of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.137 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT TO DISCHARGE.
   (A)    Permit to discharge will be issued to those users identified in §
50.135 of this chapter and who's application for permit to discharge has been
approved by the town.
   (B)   Those specific users required to install pretreatment facilities,
control structures, etc. shall fully comply with requirements set forth in §
50.122 of this chapter prior to initiating discharge to the public sewer.
   (C)   Permits to discharge will be submitted to the user in draft and
unexecuted form for review and comment. Such draft permits will also be
submitted to DHEC for review/approval. All permits must be approved by DHEC.
   (D)   Prior to the issuance of a permit to discharge to any user, all fees
due the town must be paid in full.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.138 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)    An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such
conditions as are deemed reasonably necessary by the chief operator to prevent
pass through or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving
the treatment plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate
sludge management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (B)   Permits to discharge issued by the town shall include the following at
a minimum:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the town in accordance with §
50.140 of this chapter, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state and local law.
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
50.161;
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not exceed the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
      (7)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the Chief
Operator to be necessary;
      (8)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Chief Operator must be
included as a condition in the user's permit;
      (9)   Compliance schedule with conditions and dates, if applicable;
      (10)   Special conditions section.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.139 PERMIT DURATION.
    Permits may be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five years
from the effective date of the permit. A permit may be issued for a period less
than five years, at the discretion of the Chief Operator. Each individual
wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will
expire. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior
to the expiration of the permit.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.140 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)    Permits to discharge are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. Such permits shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a new
owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed operation without
prior approval from the town.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 60 days advance notice
to the Chief Operator and the Chief Operator approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Chief Operator must include a
written certification by the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility's operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
waste water discharge permit void as of the date of the facility transfer.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.141 INDUSTRIAL EXPANSION PROJECTS.
   (A)    Any industrial user proposing the expansion of any process,
production, and/or storage facility shall be required to notify the town of
such intentions as soon as such plans for expansion have been made available to
company officials or no less than 90 days prior to the anticipated expansion
start-up of construction.
   (B)   The industrial user shall submit such information required for the
town to determine if existing permit modifications are necessary and/or if new
or additional pretreatment facilities are required.
   (C)   The town shall provide to the user its determination of required
improvements, if any, to ensure compliance with this chapter and national
pretreatment standards.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.142 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
    Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
was discharging waste water into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
45 days after said date, apply to Chief Operator for an individual wastewater
discharge permit in accordance with this chapter, and shall not cause or allow
discharges to the POTW to continue after 90 days of the effective date of this
chapter except in accordance with an individual wastewater discharge permit
issued by the Chief Operator. The exception to this would be written permission
to discharge received from the town.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.143 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW CONNECTIONS.
    Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with this
chapter, must be filed at least 60 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.144 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
    The Chief Operator may modify an individual waste water discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the treatment works, town personnel, sludge disposal, or the receiving waters;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual wastewater
discharge permit; or
   (H)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a new
owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
50.140.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.145 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)    Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
   (B)   Permits shall be revoked based on the conditions set forth in §
50.187(F).
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.146 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply
for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with §
50.136, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
SAMPLING, MONITORING, AND REPORTING
§ 50.160 GENERAL.
   (A)    To ensure compliance with this chapter, national pretreatment
standards and other applicable requirements, each user issued a permit to
discharge shall comply with the sampling, monitoring and reporting requirements
set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Each user subject to sampling, monitoring and reporting shall be
responsible for all costs related to his facility and its compliance with this
chapter.
   (C)   Costs associated with sampling, monitoring, and reporting activities
required of the town to administer its pretreatment program shall be borne by
those significant industries permitted by the town.
   (D)   All reports, notifications, etc. submitted to the town shall be
signed/certified by an “authorized representative” of the user as defined in §
50.072 of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.161 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Monthly monitoring reports shall be submitted to the town by
each user issued a permit to discharge. Such reports shall provide the results
of required sampling and monitoring activities by the user during the month.
All reports shall be accompanied with "chain-of-custody” forms used during the
sampling event. Monthly monitoring reports shall be signed and certified by an
authorized representative as stated in §
50.136(B) and §
50.164 of this chapter. Reports are due to the town by the tenth day of each
month. Monthly monitoring report forms shall be supplied by the town.
      (2)   (a)   Monthly monitoring report forms shall indicate the following
information at a minimum:
            1.   User's name and permit number;
            2.   Parameters/pollutants to be monitored;
            3.   Nature and concentration of the pollutants in the discharge;
            4.   Permitted and measured effluent limits/loadings;
            5.   Permitted and measured average and maximum daily flows;
            6.   Daily flow meter readings; and
            7.   Review comments of town.
         (b)   Each user shall receive a copy of the reviewed report with town
comments.
      (3)   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
best management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user
must submit documentation required by the Chief Operator or the pretreatment
standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   All users shall immediately notify the town of discharges that could
be considered as an accidental spill, a slug load, a toxic or hazardous
discharge, or a discharge which might detrimentally affect the operation or
maintenance of the town’s treatment works. The user shall comply with the
application provisions under §§
50.110 through
50.125.
   (C)   Should sampling activities performed by the user indicate a violation
of his or her permit to discharge, this chapter or any national pretreatment
standard, the user shall notify the town of such within 24 hours of becoming
aware of the violation. The user shall repeat the sampling and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the town within 30 days after becoming aware
of the initial violation.
   (D)   If a user subject to these reporting requirements monitors any
pollutants at the sampling location designated in the permit to discharge more
frequently than required by the permit, the results of this monitoring shall be
included in the monthly monitoring report.
   (E)   Industrial users not required to obtain a permit to discharge from the
town shall submit to the town at least once each year (on date specified by the
town) a description of the nature, concentration, and flow of pollutants
existing in his or her discharge. Pollutants to be monitored shall be as
required by the town. Sampling and monitoring procedures shall be as required
in §
50.162 of this chapter.
   (F)   Existing significant industrial users subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard shall within 180 days after the effective
date of such standard or 180 days after the final administrative decision made
upon a category determination submission under 40 CFR 403.6 and/or R61 -
9 403.6, whichever is later, shall submit to the town a report which contains
the information required in 40 CFR 403.12 and/or R61-9 403.12 and other
applicable state and federal regulations.
   (G)   New significant industrial users or users that become significant
industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard shall submit to the town a report which
contains the information required in 40 CFR 403.12 and/or R61-9 403.12.
   (H)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
national categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source,
following commencement of the discharge of wastewater into the POTW, any user
subject to national categorical pre treatment standards and requirements shall
submit to the town a report containing the information required in 40 CFR
403.12 and/or R61-9 403.12.
   (I)   The town may establish mass limitations on those users using dilution
to meet applicable national categorical pretreatment standards or in other
cases which the town deems appropriate.
   (J)   (1)   The industrial user shall notify the town, the EPA regional
waste management division director, and state hazardous waste authorities in
writing of any discharge into the POTW of a substance, which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR Part 261. Such
notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40
CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge
(continuous, batch, or other). If the industrial user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall
also contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the industrial user. An identification of the
hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place within 180 days of the effective date of this
regulation. Industrial users who commence discharging after the effective date
of this regulation shall provide the notification no later than 180 days after
the discharge of the listed or characteristic hazardous waste. Any notification
under this paragraph need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharged. However, notifications of changed discharges must be submitted
under 40 CFR 403.12(j) and/or R61 -9 403.12(j). The notification requirement in
this section does not apply to pollutants already reported under the self-
monitoring requirements of 40 CFR 403.12(b), (d), and (e) and/or R61-9 403.12
(b), (d), and (e).
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of this section during
a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous
wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 26
1.30(d) and 26 1.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of non-acute
hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time
notification. Subsequent months during which the industrial user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
town, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this division, the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (K)   The town may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. This authorization is subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to be
present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided
that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable categorical
standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
      (2)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit.
      (3)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
      (4)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with §
50.164, and include the certification statement in §
50.164.
      (5)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis or at the lowest practical quantitation limit specified by the
Department, whichever is lower.
      (6)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Chief Operator must be
included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Chief Operator for three years after expiration of the
waiver.
      (7)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user's
permit by the Chief Operator, the industrial user must certify on each report
with the statement in §
50.164, that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due
to activities of the industrial user.
      (8)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately: Comply with the monitoring requirements of §
50.162, or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the Chief
Operator, and notify the Chief Operator.
      (9)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (L)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (M)   Date of receipt of reports. Written reports will be deemed to have
been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed,
postage prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal
Service, the date of receipt of the report shall govern.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.162 SAMPLING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall sample/monitor their discharge
a minimum of once each month for the determination of amounts of pollutants
being discharged to the town’s treatment works. Such sample/monitoring results
shall be reported as required in §
50.161.
   (B)   Wastewater flows shall be continuously monitored and totalized on a
daily basis.
   (C)   All sampling/monitoring activities shall take place at the control
structure approved by the town unless otherwise required by national
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (D)   Sampling of pollutants, except for those pollutants requiring grab
samples, shall be performed by a 24-hour composite of the flow proportional
type, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Chief Operator. Where time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the town, the samples must be representative of
the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified
in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the town, as appropriate. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (E)   Sampling of pollutants through time proportional composite activities
shall only be allowed if the user demonstrates that flow proportional sampling
is unfeasible. Avoidance of costs to the User will not be considered adequate
justification for allowance of time proportional composite sampling.
   (F)   For those pollutants requiring grab samples, a minimum of four grab
samples must be used where the user can demonstrate that such sample frequency
will provide a representative sample of the pollutants/effluent being
discharged. Such pollutants/parameters requiring grab samples are pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfides, and volatile organics.
   (G)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d) and/or R61-9 403.12 (b)
and (d), a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities
for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which
historical sampling data are available, the Chief Operator may authorize a
lower minimum. For the reports required by 40 CFR 403.12(e) and (h) and/or R61-
9 403.12(e) and (h), the industrial user is required to collect the number of
grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (H)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR
Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant
in question, or where the Administrator determines that the Part 136 sampling
and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question,
sampling and analysis shall be performed by using validated analytical methods
or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including
procedures suggested by the POTW or other parties, approved by the
Administrator.
   (I)   Should accidental discharges, slug loads, and/or by-pass occur at the
users facility, the user shall immediately, after notification to the town,
initiate sampling activities of his or her permit parameters and any hazardous
or toxic substance which might have been discharged or is being discharged.
Reporting of such results shall be in accordance with § 50.161 of this chapter.
Results of such sampling may be used by the town in the determining of
surcharges, penalties, etc.
   (J)   The town shall, at least once each year, sample and monitor the user's
discharge to ensure compliance with this chapter and national categorical
pretreatment standards. The results of such sampling and monitoring activity
shall be made available to the user. Compliance monitoring and sampling by the
town does not relieve the user of his or her requirement to sample and monitor
his or her wastewater discharge.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.163 RECORDS.
    Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices established under this chapter.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available
for a period of at least three years. This period shall be automatically
extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the town, or
where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by
Chief Operator.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.164 CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
50.136; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
50.165; users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
50.161; users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
50.161, and users submitting an initial request to forego sampling of a
pollutant on the basis of §
50.161(K). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
50.164:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (B)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on §
50.161(K) must certify on each report with the following statement that there
has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of
the user.
      Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR           
[specify applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of
[list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility
since filing of the last periodic report under §
50.161 .
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.165 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)    Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision of a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4) and/or R61 -9 403.6(b)(4), whichever is
later, existing categorical industrial users currently discharging to or
scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Chief Operator a report
which contains the information listed in division (B), below. At least 90 days
prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Chief Operator a report which
contains the information listed in division (B), below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet the applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of it anticipated
flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   All information required in §
50.136(B)(15).
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
50.136(B)(15);
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division;
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula in
40 CFR 403.6(e) and/or R61-9 403.6(f) to evaluate compliance with the
pretreatment standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been
calculated in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6 and/or R61-9 403.6 this adjusted
limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to the Control Authority;
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
50.162;
         (e)   The Chief Operator may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures;
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in §
50.072 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard, a compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet requirements set out in §
50.166 of this chapter.
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
50.164 of this chapter and signed by an authorized representative as defined in
§
50.072.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.166 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
    The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required in
§
50.165(B)(4):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Chief Operator no later
than the 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Chief Operator.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.167 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, and user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Chief
Operator a report containing the information described in §
50.136(B)(12) and (15) and §
50.165(B)(2). For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.164. All sampling must be done in conformance with §
50.162.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.168 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Chief Operator of any significant changes to the
user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
its wastewater at least 60 days before the change.
   (A)   The Chief Operator may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
50.136.
   (B)   The Chief Operator may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under §§
50.137 and
50.138 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
50.144 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.169 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)    In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Chief Operator of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by Chief Operator, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the User of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A), above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Chief Operator
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.170 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Chief Operator as the Chief Operator
may require.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.171 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
Chief Operator within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation, The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to Chief Operator within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.172 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry: inspection and sampling. The Chief Operator or their
authorized agent shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Chief Operator or their authorized agent ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Chief Operator or their authorized agent shall
be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
      (2)   The Chief Operator or their authorized agent shall have the right
to set up on the user's property, or require installation of, such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      (3)   The Chief Operator may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Chief Operator and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Chief Operator or their
authorized agent access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the Chief Operator or their authorized agent has
been refused access to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof,
and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as
part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the town designed to
verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or
to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, the
Chief Operator may seek issuance of a search warrant in compliance with the
laws of the state of South Carolina.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.173 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
    Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from Chief Operator's inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
User specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Chief Operator, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Waste water
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR
2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES
§ 50.185 GENERAL.
   The provisions set forth in this subchapter shall be used as a procedural
guide to the town and its users to ensure compliance with this chapter, to
outline enforcement activities to be used by the town and to outline those
activities available to users in seeking relief or defense of ordinance
violations.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.186 COMPLIANCE ACTIVITIES.
    The following activities shall be performed by the town, at a minimum, to
ensure compliance with this chapter, national categorical pretreatment
standards, NPDES permit requirements, user discharge permits and other
applicable rules or regulations.
   (A)   At the time of NPDES permit renewal, the town shall inventory its
industrial users to determine the need of requiring any user who presently is
not required to obtain a discharge permit from the town to do such.
   (B)   At the time of the NPDES permit renewal, the town shall review and
update, if necessary, the headworks analysis of its existing wastewater
treatment facility.
   (C)   POTW toxicity testing shall be performed in accordance with the NPDES
permit issued for the POTW.
   (D)   Industrial monthly monitoring reports shall be reviewed each month and
“Notice of Violations” issued, if necessary.
   (E)   The town shall evaluate the need for a significant industrial user to
develop and implement accidental discharge/slug control plans.
   (F)   At least once each year, the town shall inspect, sample and monitor
each significant industrial user to ensure compliance with this chapter,
national categorical pretreatment standards, and applicable discharge permits.
   (G)   The town shall establish, implement, and enforce an inspection program
for grease, oil and sand interceptors.
   (H)   The town shall accelerate enforcement activities as necessary to
ensure compliance of all discharge permits issued.
   (I)   Semi-annual pretreatment reports shall be submitted to S.C. DHEC as
required by the POTW's NPDES permit.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.187 ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Notice by the town.
         (a)   Whenever the town finds that any person has violated or is
violating this subchapter, a wastewater construction permit, a service permit,
or any prohibition, limitation, or requirement contained in this subchapter,
state or federal regulation, or permit, the Mayor or his or her duly authorized
representative may serve upon such a person a written notice stating the nature
of the violation. A verbal notice shall be sufficient in emergency situations.
         (b)   If required within the notice, an explanation of the violation
and a plan for a satisfactory correction of the violation shall be submitted to
the town within 15 days from the date of the notice of violation. Submission of
this plan shall not relieve the person of liability for any violations
occurring before or after issuance of the notice of violation. Nothing in this
section shall limit the authority of the Chief Operator to take any action,
including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first
issuing a notice of violation.
         (c)   Notices of violations shall be classified as either
nonsignificant or significant non-compliance. Significant violations shall be
as defined in §
50.072.
      (2)   Notice by the user. Whenever a user becomes aware of a discharge
violation, such user shall notify the town of the violation within 24 hours of
becoming aware of the violation.
   (B)   Administrative orders.
      (1)   The Mayor or his or her duly authorized representative is empowered
to issue, negotiate, and enter into, administrative orders for the express
purpose of ensuring compliance with this subchapter, permits, state and federal
regulations, etc. Administrative orders shall be issued in the following forms:
         (a)   Consent order;
         (b)   Compliance order;
         (c)   Show cause order;
         (d)   Cease and desist order.
      (2)   Administrative orders shall be the instruments used by the town to
instruct a user found violating the provisions of this subchapter to
satisfactorily correct such violations. Administrative orders shall include a
specified period of time for such violations to be permanently corrected. For
violations deemed nonsignificant the specified period of time shall not exceed
60 days, unless the offender can prove beyond a reasonable doubt that such time
frame is not reasonable. Cost to the offender will not be considered as
justification for a time extension. For violations deemed significant, the town
may develop compliance schedules to bring dischargers into compliance with
general pretreatment program requirements. The schedule shall contain
increments of progress in the form of dates for the commencement and completion
of major events leading to the construction and operation of additional
pretreatment required for the industrial user to meet the applicable
categorical pretreatment standards. No increment referred to in this division
shall exceed nine months. Not later than 14 days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a
progress report to the control authority including, at a minimum, whether or
not it complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if
not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of progress,
the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the industrial user to
return the construction to the schedule established. In no event shall more
than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the town.
      (3)   Consent orders shall be entered into by the town and a user as a
method of ensuring voluntary compliance with the provisions of the article,
permits, regulations, etc. Such orders shall include specific action to be
taken by the industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
also specified by the order.
      (4)   Compliance orders shall be issued by the town when it is determined
that a user has violated or continues to violate this subchapter, or a permit,
or a regulation, or an order previously issued. Compliance orders shall be
issued by the town when in the towns opinion that voluntary compliance by the
user is unobtainable with the use of a consent order. Compliance orders may be
issued to the user responsible for the violation directing that, following a
specified period of time, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances have been
installed and are properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain such
other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address
the non-compliance, including the installation of pretreatment technology,
additional self-monitoring and management practices. A compliance order may not
extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any
violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
      (5)   Show cause orders shall be issued by the town directing a user
found to be in noncompliance with this subchapter, or a permit, or a
regulation, etc. to appear before the town to explain its noncompliance and to
show cause why more severe enforcement actions against the user should not go
forward.
      (6)   Cease and desist orders may be issued by the town when it is found
that a user has violated or continues to violate this article or any permit, or
order, or regulation, etc. The cease and desist order may direct the user in
noncompliance to:
         (a)   Comply forthwith;
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatening violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
      (7)   The terms or directives of any administrative order issued by the
town may or may not be negotiated with the user determined to be in non-
compliance.
   (C)   Adjudicatory hearing; informal conference.
      (1)   An adjudicatory hearing may be convened by the town when:
         (a)   The town has issued an administrative order to a user determined
to be in non-compliance;
         (b)   Requested by the user within 15 days following final
administrative action or decision by the town or any violation, application,
permit, certificate or other licensing matter.
      (2)   An information conference prior to an adjudicatory hearing may be
convened at the request of the user found in non-compliance. The informal
conference shall not delay any scheduled adjudicatory hearing date. If the
request is granted by the town, the informal conference convened may explore
ways and means to obtain compliance by consent without the necessity of a
formal adjudicatory hearing.
      (3)   Notice of the adjudicatory hearing to the user shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten
days prior to hearing date. Service may be made on any agent or officer of the
user.
      (4)   A hearing office or officers may be appointed by the town to
preside over the adjudicatory hearing. The hearing officer may be an employee
of the town or be specifically appointed for such purpose. The hearing officer
shall have no connection with the preparation or presentation of the evidence
at the hearing.
      (5)   At any adjudicatory hearing, testimony shall be taken under oath
and recorded stenographically. The transcript as recorded shall be made
available to any number of the public or any party of the hearing upon payment
of the costs of the recorded copy.
   (D)   Administrative fines; penalties; violations.
      (1)   Any person found guilty of a violation shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, may be tried by any magistrate or town recorder in the county and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine in an amount up to $200 or
confinement for a period up to 30 days for each violation.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other section of this subchapter, any user who
is found to have violated any provision of this subchapter, or permits and
orders issued hereunder, shall be fined in an amount up to $2,000 per
violation. Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or continue shall be
deemed a separate and distinct violation. Such assessments may be added to the
user's next scheduled sewer service charge and the town shall have such other
collection remedies as the town has to collect other service charges. Unpaid
charges, fines, and penalties shall constitute a lien against the individual
user's property. Industrial users desiring to dispute such fines must file a
request for the town to reconsider the fine within ten days of being notified
of the fine. Where the town believes a request has merit, the town shall
convene a hearing on the matter within 15 days of receiving the request for the
industrial user.
      (3)   In the event of noncompliance with any provisions of this
subchapter this town may, in addition to criminal penalties, secure civil
injunctive relief against the noncomplying user. In the event of an emergency
the town shall have the right to immediately terminate the use of the system
and require that the discharger correct any deficiency.
      (4)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The town may suspend the waste water treatment service and/or waste
water permit of an industrial user, after informal notice to the user, whenever
such suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
presenting or causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons, the POTW, or the environment.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate its
contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the town shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any
individuals. The town shall allow the user to recommence its discharge when the
endangerment has passed unless the termination proceedings are initiated
against the user.
      (3)   An industrial user which is responsible, in whole or in part, for
imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, within five
days of service suspension, describing the causes of the harmful contribution
and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the town prior to
the date of the hearing described above. Resumption of service will not be
considered until such written report has been submitted to the town.
      (4)   A hearing shall be held within 15 days of the notice of emergency
suspension to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user's
permit terminated. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a
hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   (F)   Termination of permit / discharge.
      (1)   Users of the town's sewer system required to obtain wastewater
construction and service permits shall be subject to permit termination based
on the following:
         (a)   Failure to notify the town of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
         (b)   Failure to provide prior notification to the town of changed
conditions pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter;
         (c)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         (d)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
         (e)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         (f)   Refusing to allow the town timely access to the facility
premises and records;
         (g)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
         (h)   Failure to pay fines;
         (i)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
         (j)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         (k)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         (l)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
         (m)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
      (2)   Non-compliance users shall be notified of the proposed termination
of their wastewater permit(s) and be offered an opportunity to show cause why
the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the Chief
Operator shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
   (G)   Judicial remedies.
      (1)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, or to the laws of this state, or any order or permit issued
hereunder, the Mayor, through the Town Attorney, may commence at action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the civil court of the county.
   (H)   Injunctive relief. The Mayor may, in the name of the town, file in
Common Pleas Court, a suit seeking the issuance of an injunction, damages, or
other appropriate relief to enforce the provisions of this subchapter or other
applicable law or regulation and the determination of the hearing examiner.
Suit may be brought on behalf of the town, at the same time or separately, to
recover any and all damages suffered by the town as a result of any action or
inaction of any user or other person who causes or suffers damage to occur to
the POTW or for any other expense, loss or damage of any kind or nature
suffered by the town. Such damages shall include, but not be limited to, claims
for damages, takings, losses, expenses, costs, fines, penalties and
professional fees for which the town may become liable or responsible and which
arise out of or result from the user's non-compliance with its permit or the
user's violation of state or federal pollution control laws, rules or
regulations. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (I)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any industrial user who has violated or continues to violate this
subchapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be liable to the town
for a civil penalty of not more than the maximum allowable under state law
e.g., $2,000 but at least $1,000, state law permitting plus actual damages
incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the violation
continues. In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the town may
recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated
with the enforcement activities including sampling and monitoring expenses, and
the cost of any actual damages incurred by the town.
      (2)   The town shall petition to the court to impose, assess and recover
such sums. in determining amount of liability, the court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic
benefit gained through the industrial user's violation, corrective actions by
the industrial user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
      (3)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite form, taking any other action against a user.
   (J)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Any user who willfully or negligently violates any provisions of
this subchapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $2,000
per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
      (2)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $2000 per
day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter,
individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or who
falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device
or method required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of up to $2000 per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
      (4)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $2,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not
more than three years or both.
      (5)   Facts or circumstances which tend to indicate a criminal activity
or action by any person may be reported to the proper state and federal law
enforcement agencies for prosecution.
   (K)   Annual publication of significant violators.
      (1)   The Chief Operator shall publish annually, in a newspaper of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the
jurisdictions served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during
the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, as defined in §
50.072.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.188 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN.
   (A)    The town shall prepare and follow an enforcement response plan in the
administering of the town's pretreatment program. The enforcement response plan
shall define a range of appropriate enforcement actions based on the nature and
severity of non-compliance events and other relevant factors, the enforcement
response plan shall identify actions to be taken should violations be of the
nonsignificant type as well as the significant type. The town shall also
evaluate and include in the plan, if possible, appropriate enforcement
responses in context to prior violations of the user(s). The enforcement
response selected must also be appropriate to the violation. The town shall
generally consider the following criteria when determining a proper enforcement
response:
      (1)   Magnitude of the violation.
      (2)   Duration of the violation.
      (3)   Effect of the violation on the receiving water.
      (4)   Effect of the violation on the town's treatment works.
      (5)   Compliance history of the industrial user.
      (6)   Good faith of the industrial user.
   (B)   The town shall designate an employee or representative of the town to
serve as pretreatment program administrator. Such administrator shall be
responsible for the administering of the town's pretreatment program and shall
be directly responsible to the Mayor or other(s) as directed by the town for
his or her actions.
   (C)   The Enforcement Response Plan is included as an
Appendix to this chapter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22-07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
§ 50.189 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided in this chapter are not exclusive. The Chief Operator
may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the town's enforcement response plan. However, the Chief Operator may take
other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
Chief Operator is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against
any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 22–07,
passed 5-2-22; Am. Ord. 23-06, passed 4-4-23)
APPENDIX: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
   (A)   Sampling, monitoring, and reporting.
Noncompliance Circumstances Range of Response Personnel
Noncompliance          Circumstances          Range of Response       Personnel
                       Frequent or continued  NOV; AO; adjudicatory
                      violation.             hearing and/or penalty; CO, M
                                              civil action.
                                              NOSN; AO; adjudicator
                      Known environmental or hearing and penalty;    CO, M
                       POTW damage - SNC.     sewer ban; civil and/or
                                              criminal investigation.
Minor sampling,
monitoring, or         Isolated or            Phone call and/or NOV;
reporting deficiencies infrequent.            request corrected form. CO
(computational or
typographical errors)
                      Recurring              AO and/or penalty.      CO, M
                       deficiencies.
Major or gross
sampling, monitoring,  Isolated or            NOV and/or AO; request
or reporting           infrequent.            corrected form.         CO
deficiencies (missing
information)
                       Continued - remains    AO; adjudicatory
                      uncorrected 45 days or hearing; penalty.       CO, M
                       more - SNC.
                       Failure to monitor all
                      pollutants as required NOV and/or AO.          CO
                       by permit.
                       Recurring failure to   NOV; AO and/or penalty;
                      monitor, recurring     civil action; criminal  CO, M
                       missing information.   investigation.
                      Improper sampling, no  NOV; AO.                CO
                       evidence of intent.
                       Improper sampling -    AO; civil action;
                      evidence of negligence adjudicatory hearing;   M
                       or intent.             criminal investigation;
                                              terminate sewer.
                                              AO; adjudicatory
Reporting false        Reporting false        hearing; civil action;
information            information - any      penalty; criminal       M
                       instance - SNC.        investigation;
                                              terminate sewer.
 
   (B)   Compliance schedules (construction phases or planning).
Noncompliance Circumstances Range of Response Personnel
Noncompliance        Circumstances           Range of Response        Personnel
                     Will not cause late
Missed interim date  final date or other     NOV                      CO
                     interim dates (less
                     than 90 days).
                     Missed milestone by 90
                     days or less,           NOV; AO; civil action/
                    negatively affects      cost recovery.           CO, M
                     final date, good cause
                     for delay.
                     Missed milestone by 90  NOV; AO; civil action/
                     days or less,           cost recovery;
                    negatively affects      adjudicatory hearing;    CO, M
                     final date, no good     criminal investigation.
                     cause or delay.
                     Missed milestone by
                     more than 90 days       NOSN; AO; civil penalty/
                    whether or not affects  cost recovery; judicial  CO, M
                     final date, good cause  action.
                     for delay - SNC.
                     Missed milestone by
                     more than 45 days, will NOSN; AO; adjudicatory
                    result in other missed  hearing; penalty; civil  CO, M
                     interim dates or missed action; terminate sewer.
                     final date (no good or
                     valid cause - SNC).
                                             NOV; AO; civil penalty/
                     Recurring violation or  cost recovery; judicial
                    violation of schedule   action; request criminal CO, M
                     in AO.                  investigation; terminate
                                             sewer.
                     Violation due to force  Require documentation of
Missed final date    majeure (strike, act of good or valid cause;     CO, M
                     God, etc.).             adjudicatory hearing.
                     90 days or more
                     outstanding - Failure   AO; Adjudicatory
                    or refusal to comply -  hearing; penalty; civil  CO, M
                     Without good or valid   action.
                     cause - SNC.
Failure to install   Delay of less than 45   NOV; AO.                 CO
monitoring equipment days.
                                             AO to begin monitoring
                                             (using outside
                                             contracts, if necessary)
                    Delay of 45 days or     and install equipment    CO, M
                     more - SNC.             within minimal time.
                                             Civil action. Penalty
                                             for each additional day.
                                             Temporary sewer ban.
                     Recurring failure to    AO; adjudicatory
                    install monitoring      hearing; civil action;   M
                     equipment or violation  criminal investigation;
                     of AO.                  terminate sewer.
 
   (C)   Effluent limits.
Noncompliance Circumstances Range of Response Personnel
Noncompliance          Circumstances          Range of Response       Personnel
Exceeding final limits Infrequent or isolated
or permit limits       - not significant; no  NOV.                    CO
(categorical, local,   damage to POTW and/or
or prohibited)         environment.
                       Infrequent or isolated
                      major violations; no   NOV; AO.                CO
                       damage to POTW and/or
                       environment.
                       Infrequent or isolated AO; civil action/cost
                      major violations;      recovery; adjudicatory  CO, M
                       damage to POTW and/or  hearing.
                       environment - SNC.
                       Violations that are    If violation has
                       recurring and/or SNC   already been corrected
                      (meet chronic          - NOV; AO; civil        CO
                       definition); no damage penalty/cost recovery;
                       to POTW and/or         adjudicatory hearing;
                       environment.           criminal investigation.
                       Recurring violations   AO with penalty; civil
                      that are SNC; harm to  action/cost recovery;   CO, M
                       POTW and/or            criminal investigation;
                       environment.           terminate sewer.
Exceeding interim
limits (categorical or Without known damages. NOV and/or AO.          CO
local)
                       Results in known       AO; adjudicatory
                      environmental or POTW  hearing; civil action.  CO, M
                       damage - SNC.
Reported slug load/    Isolated without known AO to develop slug
accidental discharge   damage.                plan; civil penalty/    CO, M
                                              cost recovery.
                       Isolated with known    AO; adjudicatory
                      interference, pass     hearing; civil action/  CO, M
                       through, or damage -   cost recovery.
                       SNC.
                                              AO; civil action/cost
                                              recovery; adjudicatory
                      Recurring - SNC.       hearing including       CO, M
                                              penalty; terminate
                                              sewer.
Discharge of untreated
wastewater - spill,    Isolated; no harm to
bypass, or improper    POTW and/or            NOV.                    CO
operation of           environment.
pretreatment facility
                       Isolated with harm to  AO; civil action/cost
                      POTW and/or            recovery; adjudicatory  CO, M
                       environment - SNC.     hearing; criminal
                                              investigation.
                                              AO to correct problems;
                       Recurring; no harm to  civil action/cost
                      POTW and/or            recovery; adjudicatory  CO, M
                       environment.           hearing; criminal
                                              investigation.
                                              AO to correct problems;
                       Recurring; harm to     civil action/cost
                      POTW and/or            recovery; adjudicatory  CO, M
                       environment - SNC.     hearing; criminal
                                              investigation;
                                              terminate sewer.
                       One time without known
Discharge without a    environmental or POTW  NOV; include            CO
permit or approval     damage; user unaware   application for permit.
                       of requirement.
                       Continuing violation   AO; adjudicatory
                       without known          hearing including
                      environmental or POTW  penalty; civil action/  CO, M
                       damage; user fails to  cost recovery; criminal
                       apply for permit after investigation;
                       notice - SNC.          terminate sewer.
                       One time that results  AO to include
                       in environmental and/  application for
                      or POTW damage; user   discharge; adjudicatory CO, M
                       unaware of requirement hearing; civil action;
                       - SNC.                 cost recovery.
                       Continuing violation   Adjudicatory hearing,
                       with known             civil action/cost
                      environmental or POTW  recovery; criminal      M
                       damage - SNC.          investigation;
                                              terminate sewer.
                                              AO to include
                       First offense - user   application for
                      aware of requirement.  discharge; adjudicatory CO, M
                                              hearing; civil action;
                                              cost recovery.
                       Failure to submit      AO; civil penalty/cost
                      required documentation recovery; criminal      CO, M
                       for permitting or      investigation;
                       renewal.               terminate sewer.
Nonpermitted discharge IU has not submitted   NOV - response required
(failure to renew      questionnaire within   within 10 days.         CO
permit)                10 days of due date.
 
   (D)   Noncompliance detected through inspections, site visits, review of
records, or field investigations.
Noncompliance Circumstances Range of Response Personnel
Noncompliance         Circumstances           Range of Response       Personnel
                      Minor noncompliance
Violation of          with approved           Phone call; NOV and/or
analytical procedures analytical procedure,   AO.                     CO
                      any instance - no
                      evidence of intent.
                      Major nonccompliance
                      with approved           NOV; AO; civil action/
                     analytical procedure,   cost recovery.          CO, M
                      no evidence of
                      negligence or intent.
                      Major noncompliance     NOSN; AO; civil action/
                      with approved           cost recovery;
                     analytical procedure,   adjudicatory hearing;   CO, M
                      evidence of negligence  criminal investigation;
                      or intent - SNC.        terminate sewer.
Violation of permit   No evidence of          NOV - immediate         CO
condition             negligence or intent.   correction required.
                      Evidence of negligence  Adjudicatory hearing;
                     or intent - SNC.        criminal investigation; CO, M
                                              sewer ban.
Improper sampling     Unintentional sampling  NOV.                    CO
                      at incorrect location.
                      Unintentional use of
                     incorrect sample        NOV.                    CO
                      collection techniques.
                     Unintentional use of    NOV.                    CO
                      incorrect sample type.
Entry denial or                               Obtain warrant and
consent withdrawn;    Entry denied or consent return to IU; NOV; AO;
copies of records     withdrawn; copies of    civil action/cost
denied; permission to records denied;         recovery; adjudicatory  CO, M
photograph, videotape electronic recordings   hearing; criminal
or electronically     denied.                 investigation;
record image denied                           terminate sewer.
                      No harm to POTW and/or  NOV; AO; civil action/
Illegal discharge     environment.            cost recovery; penalty; CO, M
                                              criminal investigation.
                      Discharge causes harm   NOSN; AO; civil action/
                      to POTW and/or          cost recovery;
                     environment and/or      adjudicatory hearing;   CO, M
                      evidence of intent/     criminal investigation;
                      negligence - SNC.       terminate sewer.
                                              NOV; AO; civil action/
                                              cost recovery;
                     Recurring violation.    adjudicatory hearing;   CO, M
                                              criminal investigation;
                                              terminate sewer.
 
   (E)   Other permit violations.
Noncompliance Circumstances Range of Response Personnel
Noncompliance         Circumstances           Range of Response       Personnel
Wastestreams are                              NOV; AO; civil action
diluted in lieu of    Initial violation.      and/or penalty.         CO, M
treatment
                                              AO; adjudicatory
                                              hearing; civil action/
                     Recurring violation.    cost recovery; criminal CO, M
                                              investigation;
                                              terminate sewer.
Failure to properly   Does not result in      NOV - response required
operate and maintain  harm, no damage to POTW within 10 days; AO;     CO, M
pretreatment facility and/or environment.     civil action/cost
                                              recovery.
                      Does result in harm,    AO and/or penalty;
                     damage to POTW and/or   civil action;           CO, M
                      environment - SNC.      adjudicatory hearing;
                                              terminate sewer.
                      Inspection finds files
Inadequate record-    incomplete or missing   NOV and repeat          CO
keeping               (no evidence of         inspection; AO.
                      intent).
                     Recurring.              NOV; AO; civil action/  CO, M
                                              cost recovery; penalty.
Violation of any      Minor, no evidence of   NOV.                    CO
permit condition      negligence or intent.
                     Minor, evidence of      NOV; AO; civil action/  CO, M
                      negligence or intent.   cost recovery.
                      Major violation of any
                     permit condition, no    NOV; AO; civil action/  CO, M
                      evidence of negligence  cost recovery.
                      or intent.
                                              NOSN; AO; civil action/
                      Major violation of any  cost recovery;
                     permit condition,       adjudicatory hearing;   CO, M
                      evidence of negligence  criminal investigation;
                      or intent - SNC.        terminate sewer
                                              service.
Failure to mitigate   No damage to POTW and/  NOV; AO; civil action/
noncompliance or      or environment.         cost recovery.          CO, M
curtail production
                                              NOSN; AO; civil action/
                                              cost recovery;
                     Damage to POTW and/or   adjudicatory hearing;   CO, M
                      environment - SNC.      criminal investigation;
                                              terminate sewer
                                              service.
Failure to report     Inspection finds        NOV; response required
additional monitoring additional files or     within 10 days.         CO
                      data.
                     Recurring.              AO; civil action/cost   CO, M
                                              recovery; penalty.
 
ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE GUIDE MATRIX AND DETAILS
The enforcement response matrix suggest a range of appropriate enforcement
responses to various types of noncompliance, and appropriate Town personnel to
implement those responses. The suggested responses are guidelines, and do not
limit the Town in its response to any given instance of noncompliance.
Personnel listed are suggested. Mayor and Town Council level may delegate their
role and authority in any enforcement action as deemed appropriate.
The legal basis for the ERG is the Town sewer use ordinance (SUO), state
pretreatment regulations and federal pretreatment regulations. The terms and
types of enforcement actions used in the ERG are defined in the SUO.
The Town may use initial enforcement actions such as a phone call or notice of
violation when the violation is not significant noncompliance or when the user
is cooperative in quickly resolving the problems. Users in significant
noncompliance or users that fail to promptly correct any problems will incur
more severe enforcement actions including up to termination of sewer service.
Enforcement actions will escalate when a user fails to return to compliance
following the initial enforcement actions or recurring noncompliance is noted.
The criteria below will be used to determine the enforcement actions that are
taken against a noncompliant user.
The enforcement actions chosen for a particular violation or group of
violations will be appropriate and representative of the magnitude and nature
of the violation. Enforcement actions for ongoing violations will be
progressive and more severe as the violations continue. When violations are
initially found, an enforcement action will be taken at that time. At the end
of each calendar quarter, each user will be evaluated for SNC. If a user is
found to be in SNC for the violation(s), then additional enforcement actions
will be taken as delineated in this ERG. The enforcement actions taken will be
adequate to promote a timely solution to the violations.
Ranges of Enforcement Response
The Town will choose the response appropriate to the violation and in the
context of the user's prior violations.
The Town will consider the following criteria when determining a proper
response:
   1.   Magnitude of the violation;
   2.   Duration of the violation;
   3.   Effect of the violation on the receiving water;
   4.   Effect of the violation on the POTW;
   5.   Compliance history of the industrial user;
   6.   Good faith of the industrial user in reporting, and responding to,
violation.
Magnitude of the Violation
It is typical to respond to an isolated violation with a notice of violation.
It is possible for isolated violation to possibly threaten the public health,
environment, damage public and/or private property. Unless a violation is
significant noncompliance (SNC) as defined in the Town Sewer Use Ordinance,
then the Town will usually start with the minimum enforcement action. Once a
violation triggers SNC, then the Town is mandated by the regulations to issue
an administrative order. This order may include a schedule to come into
compliance by a specific date if the user is not already back into compliance.
The magnitude of the violation or severity is determined by whether the
violation meets the definition of SNC. The magnitude of the violation will
influence the type of enforcement action taken by the Town based on this
evaluation.
Duration of the Violation
Duration of the violation is defined as the length that the violation
continues. Prolonged periods of violation should subject the industrial user to
escalating enforcement actions. Enforcement escalation does not depend on the
severity of the violation. Violations which result in SNC being met will be
treated more severe due to the guidelines set forth by the state and the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Extended periods of noncompliance are
not tolerated and enforcement actions will be taken to prevent this from
happening. Chronic noncompliance will be addressed with escalating enforcement
actions up to and including termination of sewer service to stop the
noncompliance. Prolonged violations that result in harm to the POTW will be
addressed by enforcement actions which include recovery of the costs to repair
any damage.
Effect of the Violation on the Receiving Water
Protection of the receiving waters where the POTW discharges is one of the
primary goals of the Pretreatment Program. Prevention of 'pass through" of
pollutants to the water body is a major component of the development of
acceptable limits for the industrial user. Each water body has established
limits for pollutants to protect the organisms that live in the water.
Pollutants that do not degrade or breakdown in the POTW will exit the
wastewater treatment and potentially harm the aquatic life. Environmental harm
is defined as whenever an industry discharges a pollutant in their effluent
which:
   1.   Causes a "pass through"
   2.   Causes a violation of the POTW's NPDES permit (including water quality
standards)
   3.   Has a toxic effect on the receiving waters, (example - fish kill,
failing toxicity test)
The minimum enforcement action will include an administrative order to include
a penalty. The penalty will also include any penalties or fines paid by the
POTW and may include damages for the destruction of natural resources or the
POTW. Termination of sewer service may be an option if noncompliance continues
uncorrected.
Effect of the Violation on the POTW
Any industry who has a violation that impacts the POTW in any way will be
assessed charges for correcting the impact. The negative impacts are not
limited to the following: significant increases in treatment costs,
interference with POTW treatment processes, harm to the general public or POTW
personnel, equipment damage, negative operational changes, damage to the
collection system piping through pipe corrosion or blockage, explosion in
collection system or POTW, and/or sludge contamination resulting in increased
disposal cost. Any labor costs or repair costs will be passed onto the user
that caused the problem to occur. Minimum enforcement actions will include an
administrative order with associated penalties including cost recovery for the
damage.
Compliance History of the User
The compliance history of a user will be evaluated when assessing the severity
of the violation. A user who has a pattern of recurring violations (same of
different parameters or regulatory requirements) can be an indication that the
user does not take wastewater issues seriously or their system is inadequately
designed for the specific wastewater conditions. A user that has recurring
violations has an increased likelihood of causing future significant
violations. A user who has recurring violations may be dealt with more severely
to ensure that compliance is achieved. A recurring violation history will
result in more advanced enforcement actions being assessed against a user.
Good Faith of the User in Reporting and Responding to Violation
A user who takes measures to correct the violation and take care of any issues
as quickly as possible will have shown good faith efforts. This effort will be
taken into account when deciding what enforcement actions will be taken. Good
faith does not eliminate the need to take an enforcement action. Good Faith is
not defined as compliance with previous enforcement actions. Recovery of costs
from an upset will take place regardless of good faith actions that may have
been taken. Good faith is demonstrated by cooperation and completion of
corrective measures in a timely manner.
Timeframes for Responses
The Town will respond to violations in accordance with the following. The Town
reserves the right to make exceptions to these timeframes.
   (a)   All violations shall normally be identified and documented within ten
(10) working days of receiving compliance information.
   (b)   Initial enforcement responses involving contact with the industrial
user and requesting information on corrective or preventative action(s) will
occur within thirty (30) days of violation detection.
   (c)   Follow up actions for continuing or reoccurring violations will be
taken within sixty (60) days of the initial enforcement response. For all
continuing violation, the response will include a compliance schedule.
   (d)   Violations which threaten health, property or environmental quality
are considered emergencies and will receive immediate responses such as halting
the discharge or terminating service.
   (e)   All violations meeting the criteria for significant noncompliance
shall normally be addressed with an enforceable order within thirty (30) to
sixty (60) days of the identification of significant noncompliance.
Industrial User Response to Noncompliance
Any instance of noncompliance must be reported within 24 hours of becoming
aware of the violation to the Town. The violation fax form should be used to
report the violation. The fax report should be followed by a written report,
when required, within five (5) working days. The report of noncompliance shall
include:
   a.   A description of the characteristics of the noncompliance.
   b.   A statement of the cause of noncompliance.
   c.   An account of the time and duration of noncompliance including dates
and times; or if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is
expected to continue, and activities begin taken to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the violation.
   d.   For noncompliance of permit limitations repeat sampling for the
parameters violated and submit the repeat results to the Town within thirty
(30) days.
Such notification shall not relieve the User of any expense, loss, damage, or
other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish
kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification
relieve the User of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be
imposed by this plan, the SUO, or other applicable law.
Assignment of Responsibilities
The CO is designated by the M to implement the industrial pretreatment program
and to enforce compliance with permits and regulations. It is the
responsibility of the CO or person designated by the CO to coordinate the
collection of evidence for use in enforcement actions, possible civil
litigation, or criminal investigations. The CO may employ the services of any
Town employee or consultant in the collection of evidence. Due to the nature of
the situation, it is conceivable that an illegal activity could be observed,
sampled, or documented by any Town employee, either through purposeful
investigation or in the normal course of duties performed.
In the case of spills, slugs, bypasses, or other discharges of a short or non-
continuous nature, whichever Town employee or consultant is in position to do
so may be used to collect evidence of the violation. The CO may employ the
services of outside laboratories or consultants in the collection of evidence.
Town personnel, outside laboratories or consultants may be called upon to
collect wastewater samples for analysis, perform laboratory analyses, prepare
visual evidence, compile and copy records, provide statements, or in any way
assist the CO and the Town's attorney(s) in preparing and executing enforcement
actions.
Definitions
Recurring is defined as more than one violation for the same parameter in a
calendar quarter.
Calendar Quarter is defined as January to March, April to June, July to
September, or October to December of the same year.
Abbreviations
AO      Administrative Order
CO      Chief Operator/Pretreatment Coordinator/Inspector
IU      Industrial User
M      Mayor with Town Council
NOSN      Notice of Significant Noncompliance
NOV      Notice of Violation
POTW      Publicly Owned Treatment Works
SNC      Significant Noncompliance
SUO      Sewer Use Ordinance
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 19-04, passed 5-6-19)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Rules and regulations authorized
   
51.03   Precollection practice
   
51.04   Collection practices
   
51.05   Items not collected
   
51.06   Prohibited activities
   
51.07   Disposition generally
   
51.08   Depositing in unauthorized areas
   
51.09   Depositing, sweeping, in streets, public places, occupied premises
   
51.10   Collection by town
   
51.11   Solid waste containers
   
51.12   Removal or damage to containers
   
51.13   Open containers prohibited
   
51.14   Town to furnish one roll-out container to each residence; additional or
subsequent parts are expense to the homeowner or resident
   
51.15   Official town holidays
   
51.16   Collection in inclement weather
   
51.17   Use of roll-out container for purpose other than garbage storage and
collection prohibited
   
51.18   Marking on or trading roll-out container prohibited
   
51.19   Theft, destruction, defacement or damaging of roll-out containers
prohibited
   
51.20   Procedure when homeowner, resident or business does not need pick up
   
51.21   Procedure upon moving of homeowner, resident or business
   
51.22   Sanitation department to be notified upon damage or theft of a
container
   
51.23   Care and maintenance of roll-out containers
   
51.24   Replacement of damaged containers
   
51.25   Out-of-town solid waste and yard waste prohibited
   
51.26   Bulk containers
   
51.27   Removal of refuse incident to building operations also known as
construction and demolition waste
   
51.28   Yard waste
   
51.29   Vehicle parts
   
51.30   E-waste
   
51.31   Recycling
   
51.32   Sanitation fees
   
51.33   Bulk container fees
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ANIMAL AND AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Principally, the manure and crop residue from
various agricultural pursuits, including dairying and the raising of livestock
and poultry. Animal waste also includes, in addition to these items mentioned
above, waste from stables, kennels, pet pens, chicken coops, veterinary
establishments and the like.
   ASHES. Residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and other combustible
material in homes, stores, institutions and small industrial establishments for
the purposes of heating, cooking, and disposing of combustible waste material.
Ashes are usually composed of a mixture of fine powdery residue, cinders,
clinkers and small portions of unburned or partially burned fuel or other
materials. Ashes shall contain no live embers or other burning materials. The
term ASHES does not include combustion byproducts generated in large production
or processing operations.
   BRUSH. All limbs, branches or shrubs under six feet in length and six inches
in diameter.
   BULK CONTAINERS. A metal container of not less than two cubic yards, or
larger than six cubic yards adaptable for the town's automatic equipment. The
container is to be of tight construction and shall be placed at a location
easily accessible by the truck handling equipment.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Materials such as lumber, bricks, dirt,
stone, plaster, foam, roofing, broken concrete, conduit pipe, wire insulation
and other substances accumulated as a result of repairs and additions to
existing buildings or construction of new buildings.
   DEAD ANIMALS. Those animals that die naturally or from disease or are killed
accidentally. Condemned animals or parts of animals from slaughterhouses or
similar places are not included in this item.
      (1)   LARGE DEAD ANIMALS. Horses, cows, goats, sheep, hogs and other
similar animals.
      (2)   SMALL DEAD ANIMALS. Dogs, cats, rabbits, squirrels, chickens, rats
and other similar animals.
   E-WASTE. Computers, computer monitors, televisions, printers and any other
type of electronic equipment as well as parts of any of these items.
   GARBAGE. Refuse of animal or vegetable food matter resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and/or consumption of food.
   GENERAL BULK WASTE. Items which, because of their size, shape or weight,
cannot be placed into standard refuse receptacles or containers.
   GENERAL RUBBISH. All refuse, rejected tin cans, old vessels of all sorts,
useless litter, discarded clothing and textiles, and all other things naturally
included in such term.
   INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any person engaged in manufacturing or processing
an item or goods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All waste generated from manufacturing plants, factories,
lumber mills, wholesale stores, bottling works, printing establishments, and
groups.
   INSTITUTION. Hospitals, schools, public, charitable, philanthropic and
religious institutions conducted for the benefit of the public or a recognized
section of the public.
   LEAF SEASON. That period of the year from October 1 through March 31, unless
extended by the Public Works Director.
   MARKET REFUSE. Putrescible garbage, generally in large quantities, along
with some rubbish such as wooden crates and cardboard boxes. It also includes
some condemned foods, but not large quantities of spoiled materials. MARKET
REFUSE is generated by wholesale and retail stores and markets as a result of
the handling, storage and selling of foods.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any duplex apartment or group of apartments used
for dwelling purposes for more than one family.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization of any kind.
   RECYCLING. A process to convert waste materials into reusable material to
prevent waste of potentially useful materials, reduce the consumption of fresh
raw materials, reduce energy usage, reduce air pollution and water pollution by
reducing the need for conventional waste disposal and lower greenhouse gas
emissions as compared to plastic production. Recycling is a key component of
modern waste reduction.
   REFUSE. Any combination of garbage, general rubbish or ashes.
   RESIDENTIAL BULK WASTE. Waste which conforms to the definition of general
bulk waste, including appliances, furniture, large crates and other similar
items generated in residential areas.
   RETAIL AND COMMERCIAL. Any office, retail store, restaurant, hotel,
government office, or private clubs.
   ROLL-OUT CONTAINERS. A plastic, wheeled, 90-gallon refuse receptacle having
a tight-fitting attached lid, carrying identification of the town and a
designated serial number and whose design, construction and capacity shall be
approved by the town. Roll-out containers shall be furnished by the town for
residential usage and their use shall be primarily for single-family dwellings
of four or fewer units.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT RESIDUES. Screenings, grit and de-watered or air-dried
sludge from sewage treatment plants and pumpings of cesspool or septic tank
sludge.
   SINGLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any dwelling place occupied by one family.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Hazardous waste and security waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste that is dangerous due to its pathological, explosive,
flammable, radioactive or toxic nature. It may be either solid, liquid or
gaseous.
   SECURITY WASTE. Waste that is confidential in nature. Included in this
category are confidential documents, negotiable papers and other similar items.
   STREET REFUSE. Refuse which accumulates in the streets and gutters and dirt
removed from catch basins. It includes dirt, leaves, paper, and other similar
items.
   WEEDS. All rank or uncultivated vegetable growth or matter which has grown
to more than one foot in height or which may give rise to unpleasant odors or
obnoxious vapor, or which is liable to become an unwholesome or decaying mass
or breeding place for mosquito's or vermin.
   YARD WASTE. Prunings, weeds, leaves and yard trimmings such as grass
clippings, shrubs, limbs and brush. When collected, it often contains some
earth clinging to the roots of grass, weeds and discarded plants, but large
quantities of earth are excluded from this category.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Public Works Department shall administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. It is the responsibility of the Department to:
      (1)   Collect, transport and dispose of all refuse and to carry out the
intent of this chapter;
      (2)   Investigate complaints;
      (3)   Establish appropriate routes and schedules for refuse and yard
waste collection in residential, commercial and industrial areas;
      (4)   Designate the size and type of receptacle or container that must be
utilized;
      (5)   Approve the location where new containers are to be serviced and
determine the practicality of existing container installations;
      (6)   Determine the necessity and reasonableness of having the collectors
enter any property to collect refuse and other collectible waste; and
      (7)   Notify the responsible party of nonconforming receptacles or
containers and nonconforming precollection practices.
   (B)   All such rules and regulations so promulgated shall have the force and
effect of an ordinance of the town. It shall be unlawful for any person to
fail, neglect or refuse to comply with such rules and regulations so
promulgated as approved. The Public Works Director and/or his/her designee
shall have the authority to approve the issuance of warning notices for
violation. Whenever the Public Works Director determines there has been a
violation of this chapter, such Director and/or his/her designee shall give
notice of such violation to the property owner and/or person or agent
responsible and/or occupant in accordance with the responsibilities set out in
this chapter. Such notice shall be in writing, allow 15 days from its receipt
for performance of any act it requires, specify the manner in which the
violation may be corrected and state that, if such correction is not
voluntarily completed within such time, legal proceedings against the violator
shall be instituted and sanitation service may be terminated until the
violation is corrected.
      (1)   Service of notice shall be by delivery to the property owner and/or
the person or agent responsible and/or the occupant personally; or by leaving
such notice at the usual place of adobe of such party or the owner or person
responsible with person of suitable age or discretion; or by depositing the
notice in the United States Post Office addressed to the owner or person
responsible at his last known address, with postage prepaid, or if service of
notice cannot be obtained in either of the above methods, by posting and
keeping posted for 24 hours a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
premises where the violation has occurred.
      (2)   Within five days following receipt of notice of violation, any
person receiving such notice, believing that the literal application of this
chapter will cause undue hardship or has been misconstrued, may appeal to the
Town Administrator. The Town Administrator may, after investigation of the
appeal and grounds thereof, permit in writing, in appropriate cases, a
reasonable extension of time or relief from strict compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Town Administrator may waive the issuance of any warning notices
or waiting periods and institute legal proceedings immediately if it is
determined that the same owner, occupant or person responsible has been given
notice for the same violation at that same location within the previous 180
days.
   (D)   The Town of Pendleton shall require any active residential utility
customer whose property is located within the municipal limits of the town, to
be charged a sanitation fee. The fees will be applied as long as utility
service is active.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.03 PRECOLLECTION PRACTICE.
   (A)   The occupants, whether owners or tenants, of single and multiple
residential units requiring a roll-out container to store their refuse between
collections shall adhere to the following precollection practices:
      (1)   Separation.
         (a)   Garbage, general rubbish and ashes shall be grouped together.
         (b)   Garbage and ashes shall be placed in plastic bags before being
placed in roll-out containers.
         (c)   Leaves, yard waste and general bulk waste shall be separated
from the waste specified in this division (A)(1) and each other.
         (d)   Grass clippings and leaves shall be separated from other yard
waste.
         (e)   With the exception of leaf season, all grass clippings and
leaves shall be bagged separately.
      (2)   Treatment.
         (a)   Garbage shall be drained.
         (b)   Ashes shall be cold.
         (c)   Tree branches and shrubbery trimmings shall be cut to length no
longer than six feet in length and six inches in diameter.
         (d)   Boxes, crates and cartons shall be broken down.
         (e)   Refrigerator and freezer doors shall be removed.
         (F)   Leaves, yard waste and general bulk waste will be picked up as
soon as practical.
      (3)   Storage.
         (a)   Garbage, general rubbish and ashes enclosed in plastic bags
shall be stored in roll-out containers.
         (b)   General bulk waste and yard waste shall be placed at the curb
for collection as soon as practical.
      (4)   Placement.
         (a)   All roll-out containers on scheduled pickup days shall be placed
at the curbside or adjacent to the street by 7:30 a.m. in an easily accessible
location no more than six feet away from the curb or street. Roll-out
containers shall be removed by 9:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
         (b)   Leaves, yard waste and general bulk waste shall be placed at the
curb on the scheduled pickup day for collection and will be picked up as soon
as practical.
         (c)   Placement of all items at the curb shall be located so as to be
unobstructed to pick up by vehicle. When possible, shall not be placed under
utility lines.
   (B)   The owner of, or the owner's agent for multiple residential units
requiring in excess of two roll-out containers to contain solid waste volume
between collections shall be required to utilize bulk containers. The user of
such containers shall adhere to the following precollection practices:
      (1)   Separation.
         (a)   Garbage, general rubbish, and ashes shall be grouped together
for collection.
         (b)   Bulk waste and yard waste shall be separated from the waste
specified in this division (B)(1) and each other.
         (c)   Tree branches and shrubbery trimmings shall be cut to length no
longer than six feet in length and six inches in diameter.
         (d)   Grass clippings and leaves shall be separated from other yard
waste.
         (e)   With the exception of leaf season, all grass clippings and
leaves shall be bagged separately.
      (2)   Treatment.
         (a)   Garbage shall be drained.
         (b)   Boxes, crates and cartons shall be broken down.
         (c)   Ashes shall be cold.
         (d)   Refrigerator and freezer doors shall be removed.
         (e)   Containers shall be drained of all accumulated liquids.
         (f)   Leaves, yard waste and general bulk waste will be picked up as
soon as practical.
      (3)   Storage.
         (a)   Garbage, general rubbish, and ashes shall be placed in tied
plastic bags before being placed in the container that is on the premises for
storage.
         (b)   General bulk waste and yard waste shall be placed at the curb
for collection as soon as practical.
      (4)   Placement.
         (a)   Containers shall be placed in a position easily accessible to
the equipment required to service the containers.
         (b)   Leaves, yard waste and general bulk waste shall be placed at the
curb on the scheduled pickup day for collection and will be picked up as soon
as practical.
         (c)   Placement of all items at the curb shall be located so as to be
unobstructed to pick up by vehicles. When possible, shall not be placed under
utility lines.
   (C)   The occupants, whether owners or tenants of retail, commercial,
institutional, and industrial units requiring two or less roll-out containers
to contain their solid waste in an average business week shall adhere to the
following precollection practices:
      (1)   Separation.
         (a)   Garbage, market refuse, general rubbish, and ashes shall be
grouped together for collection purposes and placed in plastic bags.
         (b)   General bulk waste shall be separated from the waste specified
in this division (A)(1) above.
      (2)   Treatment.
         (a)   Garbage and market refuse shall be drained of all liquids.
         (b)   Boxes, crates, cartons and similar items shall be broken down.
         (c)   Ashes shall be cold.
      (3)   Storage.
         (a)   Garbage, market refuse, general rubbish, and ashes shall be
placed in tied plastic bags before being placed in the roll-out container that
is on the premises for storage.
         (b)   General bulk waste shall be left loose outside of the refuse
receptacles.
      (4)   Placement.
         (a)   All refuse receptacles shall be placed in an easily accessible
location, approved by the Public Works Director.
         (b)   General bulk waste shall be placed adjacent to the refuse
receptacles in a location that is easily accessible. When possible, general
bulk waste shall not be placed under utility lines.
   (D)   The owner of, or the owner's agent for, retail, commercial,
institutional, and industrial units requiring in excess of two roll-out
containers to contain their solid waste volume in an average business week
shall be required to utilize bulk containers. The user of such containers shall
adhere to the following precollection practices:
      (1)   Separation. Garbage, market refuse, general rubbish and ashes shall
be combined for collection purposes.
      (2)   Treatment.
         (a)   Garbage and market refuse shall be drained of all liquids.
         (b)   Ashes shall be cold.
         (c)   Boxes, crates, cartons and other similar items shall be broken
down.
         (d)   All containers shall be drained of accumulated liquids.
      (3)   Storage. Garbage, market refuse, general rubbish, and ashes shall
be placed in tied plastic bags before being placed in the container that is on
the premises for storage.
      (4)   Placement. Containers shall be placed in a position easily
accessible to the equipment required to service the containers.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.04 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   In general, the town will be responsible for the collection of wastes
which come under the following waste categories:
      (1)   Garbage.
      (2)   Market refuse.
      (3)   General rubbish.
      (4)   YARD WASTE. Residential pick up only, unless the retail,
commercial, institutional and industrial units pay the sanitation fee charged
by the town.
      (5)   Ashes.
      (6)   General bulk waste.
      (7)   Residential bulk waste.
   (B)   The town shall make specific collections of refuse and other waste as
follows:
      (1)   Residential units.
         (a)   Single residential units and multiple residential units using
roll-out containers.
            1.   Garbage, general rubbish, and ashes. Garbage, general rubbish
and ashes shall be collected from all single-family residential units using
roll-out containers and from all multiple residential units using roll-out
containers for the storage of refuse on a regular schedule of one pickup per
week. Users shall pay a fee, set by Council, per roll-out container.
            2.   Leaves, yard waste and residential bulk waste. When feasible,
leaves, yard waste and residential bulk waste will be collected on your regular
scheduled garbage pickup day. Residents having waste of this type should call
the town hall for instructions on handling. Additional rates may be charged for
such services at the discretion of the town.
            3.   The disposal of small dead animals shall be the responsibility
of the owner, where feasible, and picked up by the town only by specific
authorization of the Public Works Director.
            4.   All other collectible waste classifications. No other types of
collectible wastes than those specified in this division (a) will be collected
by the Sanitation Department from single residential units and multiple
residential units using roll-out containers.
         (b)   Multiple residential units using bulk containers.
            1.   Garbage, general rubbish, yard waste and ashes shall be
collected from all multiple residential units using bulk containers on a
regular schedule of at least one pick up per week. User shall pay a fee, set by
Council, for each pickup and size of container.
            2.   Residential bulk waste. When feasible, residential bulk waste
will be collected on your regular scheduled garbage pickup day. Residents
having waste of this type should call the town hall for instructions on
handling. Additional rates may be charged for such services at the discretion
of the town.
            3.   All other collectible waste classifications. No other types of
collectible wastes than those specified in this division b. will be collected
by the Sanitation Department from multiple residential units using the town's
bulk container service. Refuse set or dumped outside of a bulk container shall
not be collected.
      (2)   Business and institutional units.
         (a)   Retail, commercial, institutional and industrial units using
roll-out containers.
            1.   Garbage, market refuse, general rubbish and ashes shall be
collected from all retail, commercial, institutional and industrial units using
rollout containers on a regular schedule of at least one pick up per week. User
shall pay a fee set by Council for each roll-out container.
            2.   General bulk waste. When feasible, general bulk waste items
will be collected on your regular scheduled garbage pickup day. Businesses and
institutional units having waste of this type should call the town hall for
instructions on handling. Additional rates may be charged for such services at
the discretion of the town.
            3.   All other collectible waste classifications. No other types of
collectible waste than those specified in this division (2)(a) will be
collected by the Sanitation Department.
         (b)   Retail, commercial, institutional and industrial units using
bulk container service.
            1.   Garbage, market refuse, general rubbish and ashes. Garbage,
market refuse, general rubbish and ashes shall be collected from all retail,
commercial, institutional and industrial units using bulk containers on a
schedule either designated by or approved by the Public Works Director. Pickups
per week may run from as few as one per week to as many as five per week
depending on the service required and the particular circumstances of the
specific user. Bulk container users shall pay a fee, set by Council, for each
pickup and size of container.
            2.   All other waste collections. No other types of collectible
waste than those specified in this division (2)(b) will be collected by the
Sanitation Department from retail, commercial, institutional and industrial
units using bulk container service. Refuse set or dumped outside of a bulk
container shall not be collected.
         (c)   In order to qualify for town collection, waste containers shall
be leased only from the town.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.05 ITEMS NOT COLLECTED.
   (A)   The Sanitation Department shall not collect the following items; these
are the responsibility of the persons indicated for each, respectively:
Solid Waste Responsible Agency
Solid Waste                                        Responsible Agency
Street refuse                                      Town Public Works Department
Large dead animals                                 Owner
Abandoned vehicles                                 Owner
Construction and demolition waste, including waste Contractor or property owner
from professional tree trimmers or surgeons
Industrial waste in large quantities               Owner
Special waste                                      Owner
Animal and agricultural wastes                     Owner
Sewage treatment residues                          Owner
Any solid waste item that has demonstrated by
experience that it has a high probability of       Owner
inflicting damage to the collection equipment used
by the town
 
   (B)   Upon request by any of the specified individuals or responsible
agencies, and when reasonably feasible in the opinion of the Public Works
Director, the Public Works Director will evaluate and prepare estimates as
needed of the costs of providing collection and disposal of waste in any of the
above solid waste categories, and may, at the discretion of the town and prior
approval of the Town Administrator, enter into a contract with any such
responsible agency to provide special collection and disposal services at such
additional rates as may be mutually agreed upon.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.06 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with town employees
engaged in the collection of refuse and yard waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to require any employee of the
town engaged in the collection of refuse and yard waste to do more than return
the empty container to the designated point of the property.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.07 DISPOSITION GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall place any refuse or yard waste in or upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or public lands within the town, except in proper containers
for collection.
   (B)   No person, other than employees of the town charged with such duty
shall overhaul, molest or interfere with contents of any receptacle, or bundle
set out for removal by the town, or carry any garbage or rubbish from the
streets unless authorized by the Public Works Director or his/her designated
agent.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.08 DEPOSITING IN UNAUTHORIZED AREAS.
   No person shall throw or deposit any refuse or yard waste in any stream or
other body of water in the town. It shall be unlawful for any person to dump,
deposit or place, or allow to be dumped, deposited or placed, any garbage, yard
waste, debris or refuse of any kind or nature upon or immediately adjacent to
any park or park space in the town.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.09 DEPOSITING, SWEEPING, IN STREETS, PUBLIC PLACES, OCCUPIED PREMISES.
   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit any refuse anywhere within the
town in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon
any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, or other public place, or into any occupied
premises within the town.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.10 COLLECTION BY TOWN.
   (A)   All refuse, rubbish, yard waste and garbage in the town shall be
collected, conveyed and disposed of by the town unless excepted by subsequent
sections. This section shall not prohibit the actual producers of solid waste
or the owners of premises upon which refuse has been accumulated from
personally collecting, conveying and disposing of the same wastes. Such
producers or owners shall still be responsible for adherence to other
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall not prohibit collectors of solid waste outside the
town from hauling or conveying solid wastes over town streets, provided the
collectors comply with the provisions of this chapter and any other governing
laws or ordinances.
   (C)   Retail, commercial, institutional and industrial units may utilize up
to two rollout containers per business and pay a sanitation fee per roll out
container. The town will pick up roll-out containers from businesses two times
per week. The rate for commercial sanitation shall be established from time to
time by Town Council. Bulk containers will be required by the town if two roll-
out containers are insufficient.
   (D)   No residential or commercial service will be provided after two months
of delinquency.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.11 SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Every person producing or having solid waste collected by the town
shall keep on the premises or property occupied or used by him roll-out
containers or bulk containers as specified herein. Bulk containers or roll-out
containers must be located so as to be accessible to town employees using
normal collection methods and must be sufficient to handle the accumulations of
solid wastes on the premises or property in the interval between collections by
the town.
   (B)   Residential solid waste shall be collected at least one day per week.
Roll-out containers are to be placed at curbside no later than 7:30 a.m. on the
day of collection. Special exceptions to this requirement may be granted to
elderly or handicapped customers on application to and approval by the town. In
these cases the town will place a yellow "H" on the container so that the
town's sanitation crew can easily identify residences of handicapped
individuals. Collection will be suspended at any locations at which a roll-out
container is damaged to such an extent as to interfere with usual collection
methods.
   (C)   Residential occupancies which consecutively generate solid waste in
excess of one roll-out container per week, shall be required to lease an
additional roll-out container and pay an additional sanitation fee each month.
   (D)   Roll-out containers shall be promptly removed and stored as close to
the principal structure as possible and out of general curbside, sidewalk or
collection area by 9:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
   (E)   Residential and commercial establishments shall be responsible for
periodic cleaning of roll-out or bulk containers and shall promptly pick-up and
remove any waste spilled or dropped from the containers during collection.
   (F)   Commercial establishments or multi-family units may utilize up to two
roll-out containers. If the two roll-out containers are not of sufficient
capacity, a bulk container will be required.
   (G)   The town shall not be responsible for the removal of refuse from any
multi-family, retail, commercial, institutional or industrial establishment
which fails to have a bulk container when required herein.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to burn in any roll-out container or bulk
container.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.12 REMOVAL OR DAMAGE TO CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any roll-out or bulk container
from the premises from which it is assigned or to maliciously damage or deface
any rollout or bulk container.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.13 OPEN CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for containers required by this chapter to remain open
except while being serviced. Users of containers shall be responsible for
keeping containers closed.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.14 TOWN TO FURNISH ONE ROLL-OUT CONTAINER TO EACH RESIDENCE; ADDITIONAL OR
SUBSEQUENT PARTS ARE EXPENSE TO THE HOMEOWNER OR RESIDENT.
   (A)   The town shall provide each residence with one 90 gallon roll-out
container, which shall be used for the storage of household garbage only - not
yard waste.
   (B)   The town shall purchase the first roll-out container for each
residence. When the first roll-out container wears out, the occupant will be
required to lease a new rollout container from the town at their own expense.
   (C)   If more than one roll-out container is needed or desired, they must be
leased from the town. A sanitation fee will be charged monthly for each roll-
out container.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.15 OFFICIAL TOWN HOLIDAYS.
   There will be no collection on town holidays. These days will be advertised
well in advance along with their corresponding make-up schedules.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.16 COLLECTION IN INCLEMENT WEATHER.
   In bad weather the Sanitation Department will attempt to operate normally
and each residence or business will choose whether or not to roll-out their
container for their normal weekly pick up or wait for their next scheduled pick
up day.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.17 USE OF ROLL-OUT CONTAINER FOR PURPOSE OTHER THAN GARBAGE STORAGE AND
COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
   The roll-out container shall not be used for any purpose other than storing
and collecting garbage.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.18 MARKING ON OR TRADING ROLL-OUT CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   The roll-out containers shall not be marked or written on, nor shall any
homeowner or resident trade roll-out containers.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.19 THEFT, DESTRUCTION, DEFACEMENT OR DAMAGING OF ROLL-OUT CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To remove any roll-out container from its assigned residence within
the town limits, or to take any such container out of the town limits;
   (B)   To damage or destroy any roll-out container by burning, exploding,
shooting, cutting, painting, running into the container with a motor vehicle or
by use of any corrosive substances or chemicals or by any other methods which
shall result in damage or destruction to such roll-out container;
   (C)   To pull any roll-out container behind a motor vehicle or other vehicle
or to do any act which would tend to damage or dismantle the roll-out
container; or
   (D)   To do any other acts not enumerated above, which would in fact damage
or destroy a roll-out container or would reasonably tend to lead to such damage
or destruction.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.20 PROCEDURE WHEN HOMEOWNER, RESIDENT OR BUSINESS DOES NOT NEED PICK UP.
   If a homeowner, resident, or business does not have enough garbage to need a
pick-up on a particular collection day, they may skip the collection on that
day and leave the roll-out container at their house or business. The garbage
will then be picked-up on the next regular collection day.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.21 PROCEDURE UPON MOVING OF HOMEOWNER, RESIDENT OR BUSINESS.
   If a homeowner, resident, or business moves out of town or to another
location within the town limits, they shall call the Town Hall so that the
roll-out container can be picked up. It shall not be taken when a resident or
business moves. The town will maintain ownership of the roll-out containers at
all times, even if the container is leased.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.22 SANITATION DEPARTMENT TO BE NOTIFIED UPON DAMAGE OR THEFT OF A
CONTAINER.
   (A)   If a container is stolen or damaged, the resident should call town
hall at once.
   (B)   If any part of the container shall become loose or separates, it shall
be reported to Town Hall at once to be repaired or replaced.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.23 CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF ROLL-OUT CONTAINERS.
   The occupants of any building for which a roll-out container has been
provided shall be responsible for the following:
   (A)   Placing the container in a location where it will not be subject to
damage or vehicular or other traffic, including lawn mowers;
   (B)   Oiling the wheels at intervals as necessary to maintain easy operation
and to prevent unnecessary wear (approximately every four months);
   (C)   Preventing the placing in any container of any hot material, solvents
or other items or materials which may damage the plastic;
   (D)   Keeping the container in a clean and sanitary condition; and
   (E)   lacing the container in a readily accessible location, as near as
practical to the curb on scheduled collection days.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.24 REPLACEMENT OF DAMAGED CONTAINERS.
   The occupants of any building for which a roll-out container has been
provided shall be required to pay the cost of replacement of any container
which is damaged as a result of carelessness, improper use, neglect, or any
other cause not resulting from actions of town personnel.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.25 OUT-OF-TOWN SOLID WASTE AND YARD WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any type of refuse or yard
waste that originates from outside the town limits into the town for collection
and disposal by the town’s labor forces.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.26 BULK CONTAINERS.
   Businesses that request a bulk container will be invoiced monthly. A late
charge penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance per month, no service after two
months of delinquency, no refunds for partial months and all changes in service
must be requested in writing. The maintenance of bulk containers shall be the
responsibility of the user.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.27 REMOVAL OF REFUSE INCIDENT TO BUILDING OPERATIONS ALSO KNOWN AS
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE.
   Every contractor, carpenter, builder, tenant or homeowner who constructs,
repairs or alters a building in the town shall remove all refuse incident to
such construction, repairs or alterations at his own expense and no part
thereof shall be deposited or left for disposal by the town.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.28 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   With the exception of during leaf season, leaves and grass clippings
to be picked up shall be enclosed in disposable containers such as plastic
bags, securely tied and placed in a location near the street to facilitate the
collection process.
   (B)   Normal seasonal yard trimmings and pruning in reasonable quantities
will be removed by the town. Trimmings shall be no larger than six feet in
length and six inches in diameter. Abnormal quantities of trimmings or any lot
clearings, tree removals or stumps shall be transported to the sanitary
landfill by the owner or contractor.
   (C)   Nothing shall be disposed of or placed in a drainage ditch.
   (D)   The town will make special exceptions for removal of normal seasonal
yard trimmings and pruning in reasonable quantities for elderly or handicapped
customers even when contracted, on application approved by the Public Works
Department.
   (E)   Yard waste may be placed at the curb or right-of-way for collection by
the town, provided:
      (1)   The placement does not cause or create a hazard to the public;
      (2)   The material is placed on the property from which it originated;
      (3)   The material is cut to the above appropriate lengths;
      (4)   The material is separated and distinct from all other refuse and
not placed in the roll-out containers; and
      (5)   Leaves and grass clippings shall be bagged, with the exception of
during leaf season. During leaf season, leaves and grass clippings may be
placed curbside in a location that is accessible for the leaf vacuum truck.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.29 VEHICLE PARTS.
   The placement of any vehicle parts or vehicle tires at the curb or right-of-
way is specifically prohibited and is the responsibility of the property owner
to legally dispose of these items. If feasible, the town will offer tire
amnesty day’s twice a year, one in the spring and one in the fall. On tire
amnesty day, it is the responsibility of the resident to place tires at the
curb or right-of-way by 7:00 a.m. on the scheduled day. Tires must be clean and
rims removed.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.30 E-WASTE.
   Notice: it is against the law, to dispose of computers, computer monitors,
televisions, printers and any other type of electronic equipment as well as any
parts of these items in landfills. The placement of any electronics and
electronic parts at the curb or right-of-way is specifically prohibited and is
the responsibility of the property owner to legally dispose of these items.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.31 RECYCLING.
   (A)   Curbside recycling is available to town residents and businesses.
Residents and businesses will be issued one recycling bin. If an additional bin
is needed or desired, upon request, one will be provided at no additional
charge.
   (B)   What can you recycle?
      (1)   Plastic. Soft drink bottles, milk jugs, water bottles, detergent
containers, bleach containers, food containers, and shampoo bottles, items with
number one or two recycling symbol on it. Lids shall be removed and containers
rinsed and cleaned out.
      (2)   Aluminum cans. All aluminum drink cans. No pie plates, foil, or
aerosol. All cans shall be rinsed and cleaned out.
      (3)   Steel cans. Food and juice cans. Cans shall be rinsed and cleaned
out.
      (4)   Glass. Clear, green or brown jars and bottles only. Lids shall be
removed and glass rinsed and cleaned out.
      (5)   Mixed paper. Newspaper, magazines, paperbacks, writing.
      (6)   Paper, computer paper, paper grocery bags, cereal boxes. Do not tie
with string.
      (7)   Cardboard. Corrugated cardboard only. Cardboard shall have no wax
coting. Cardboard shall be flattened and placed beside the recycling bin.
   (C)   All items, other than cardboard, may be mixed together in the blue
recycling bin.
   (D)   Recycling bins shall be placed at curbside no later than 7:30 a.m. on
the day of your scheduled collection and removed from curbside by 9:00 p.m. on
the day of collection. Recycling bins shall be stored as close to the principal
structure as possible and out of general curbside, sidewalk or collection area.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.32 SANITATION FEES.
   Refer to the most recent Town of Pendleton Municipal Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.33 BULK CONTAINER FEES.
   Refer to the most recent Town of Pendleton Municipal Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $200 and/or 30 days in jail. Citations and/
or fines shall be issued by the town's Code Enforcement Officer or the
Pendleton Police Department or his//her designee.
   (B)   Excessive violators may have service suspended if violations continue
to exist.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 3-7-16)
CHAPTER 52: DROUGHT RESPONSE
Section
   
52.01   Declaration of policy and authority
   
52.02   Moderate drought phase
   
52.03   Severe drought phase
   
52.04   Extreme drought phase
   
52.05   Rationing
   
52.06   Enforcement
   
52.07   Variances
   
52.08   Status
§ 52.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The objective of this chapter is to establish authority, policy and
procedure by which the town waterworks will take the proper actions to manage
water demand during a drought-related shortage. The chapter satisfies the
requirements of the Drought Response Act of 2000 and has the goal of achieving
the greatest public benefit from limited supplies of water needed for domestic
water use, sanitation, and fire protection and of allocating water for other
purposes in an equitable manner.
   (B)   This chapter outlines the actions to be taken for the conservation of
water supplied by the town waterworks. These actions are directed both towards
an overall reduction in water usage and the optimization of supply.
   (C)   To satisfy these goals, the town waterworks hereby adopts the
following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of
water. This chapter is hereby declared necessary for the protection of public
health, safety and welfare and shall take effect upon its adoption by the town
waterworks.
   (D)   If it becomes necessary to conserve water in its service area due to
drought, the town waterworks is authorized to issue a proclamation that
existing conditions prevent fulfillment of the usual water use demands. The
proclamation is an attempt to prevent depleting the water supply to the extent
that water use for human consumption, sanitation, fire protection, and other
essential needs becomes endangered.
   (E)   Immediately upon issuance of such a proclamation, regulations and
restrictions set forth under this chapter shall become effective and remain in
effect until the water supply shortage has ended and the proclamation
rescinded.
   (F)   Water uses that are regulated or prohibited under this chapter are
considered to be non-essential and continuation of such uses during times of
water supply shortages is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the
offender(s) to penalties.
   (G)   The Drought Management Plan as outlined in this chapter is hereby
approved.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
§ 52.02 MODERATE DROUGHT PHASE.
   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a moderate drought
condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon determination by
the town waterworks that a moderate water supply shortage exists based on
trigger levels, the town waterworks will seek voluntary reductions from its
customers in the use of water for all purposes and voluntary reductions on
using water during certain peak water demand periods. Specifically, the goal
during this phase is to achieve a reduction of 20% in residential water use and
15% in other water uses such as commercial, industrial, institutional and
irrigation; and a reduction in overall water use of 15%. To accomplish this,
the town waterworks will take the following actions.
   (A)   Issue a proclamation to be released to local media, town waterworks
customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources Drought
Information Center that moderate drought conditions are present.
   (B)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
voluntary conservation measures that the customers are requested to follow
during moderate drought conditions, including:
      (1)   Reduce residential water use to 65 gallons per person per day and a
maximum of 200 gallons per household per day;
      (2)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
      (3)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
      (4)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
      (5)   Eliminate the domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and the
like;
      (6)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection ponds
and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except where
necessary to support aquatic life;
      (7)   Reduce watering lawns, plants, trees, gardens, shrubbery and flora
on private or public
property to the minimum necessary. Encourage outdoor watering to be done during
off-peak hours;
      (8)   Reduce the amount of water obtained from fire hydrants for
construction purposes, fire drills or for any purpose other than firefighting
or flushing necessary to maintain water quality; and
      (9)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely in
restaurants;
         (b)   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
         (c)   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so.
   (C)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks in
the distribution system.
   (D)   Cease to install new irrigation taps on the water system.
   (E)   Continue to encourage and educate customers to comply with voluntary
water conservation.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
§ 52.03 SEVERE DROUGHT PHASE.
   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that a severe drought
condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon determination by
the town waterworks that a severe water supply shortage exists, the town
waterworks will seek voluntary reduction in the use of water for all purposes
and mandatory restrictions on non-essential usage and restrictions on times
when certain water usage is allowed. Specifically, the goal during this phase
is to achieve a reduction of 25% in residential water use, 20% in all other
water use categories, and a reduction in overall water use of 20%. To
accomplish these goals, the town waterworks will take the following actions.
   (A)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, town
waterworks customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources
Drought Information Center that severe drought conditions are present.
   (B)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
voluntary conservation measures and mandatory restrictions to be placed on the
use of water supplied by the utility, including:
      (1)   Voluntary reduction of residential water use by the utility’s
customers to 55 gallons per day per person and a maximum of 170 gallons per
household or REU per day.
      (2)   Control landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers by
staggering watering times.
      (3)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the utility
for activities including:
         (a)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
         (b)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (c)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
         (d)   Eliminate domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and the
like;
         (e)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
         (f)   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools;
         (g)   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills or any purpose other than fire-fighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
      (4)   Limit use of water by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely in
restaurants;
         (b)   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
         (c)   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds;
         (d)   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
         (e)   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
   (C)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks in
the distribution system.
   (D)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system.
   (E)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested.
   (F)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts and emphasize
the penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions.
   (G)   Provide written notification monthly to the South Carolina Department
of Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the success of the
voluntary and mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
§ 52.04 EXTREME DROUGHT PHASE.
   Upon notification by the Drought Response Committee that an extreme drought
condition is present and is expected to persist and/or upon determination by
the town waterworks that an extreme water supply shortage exists based on
trigger levels, the town waterworks will impose mandatory restrictions in the
use of water for all purposes and on the times when certain water usage is
allowed. Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of
30% in residential water use, 25% in all other categories of water uses and a
reduction in overall water use of 25%. To accomplish these goals, the town
waterworks will take the following actions.
   (A)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, town
waterworks customers and to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources
Drought Information Center that extreme drought conditions are present.
   (B)   Provide written notification to the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the service area of the water system the
mandatory restrictions to be placed on the use of water supplied by the
utility, including:
      (1)   Limiting residential water use to 45 gallons per person per day and
a maximum of 140 gallons per household or REU per day.
      (2)   Eliminate landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers.
      (3)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the utility
for activities including:
         (a)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts and other hard surfaced areas;
         (b)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (c)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
         (d)   No domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and the like;
         (e)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
         (f)   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools;
         (g)   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills, or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
      (4)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely in
restaurants;
         (b)   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
         (c)   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of their grounds;
         (d)   Cease water service to customers to have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
         (e)   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production, or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
   (C)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks in
the distribution system.
   (D)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system.
   (E)   Outline other conservation measures, examples are:
      (1)   Place a moratorium on the issuance of all new water service
connections and contracts for all new water main extensions. As part of the
public information process, provide notice to developers of the moratorium;
      (2)   Encourage all residential water customers to voluntarily reduce
overall monthly water usage to 70% of the customer’s monthly average. If
voluntary reduction of usage is not successful, the town waterworks may, at its
option, implement the following excessive use rate schedule for water:
         Tier I      0 – 225 gallons/REU      Regular rate
         Tier II      226 – 275 gallons/REU   2 times regular rate
         Tier III      Over 276 gallons/REU   3 times regular rate
      (3)   Impose a drought surcharge per thousand gallons of water that
increases with higher usage. The general principle behind the drought surcharge
is that the fee is imposed on water use in excess of 226 gallons/REU of normal
0 - 225 gallons/REU use. The drought surcharge is a temporary fee imposed
during the current water supply shortage and is not a cost-based rate. The
drought surcharge is temporary and will be terminated at such time as the town
waterworks determines the water supply is above the trigger levels.
      (4)   If the conservation measures of this chapter prove inadequate to
mitigate the effects of the drought conditions or water supply availability,
the town waterworks may take additional actions including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Decreasing the gallon/REU limits in the different tiers; and
         (b)   Reduction of water system pressure as needed.
   (F)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested.
   (G)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts as conducted
under the moderate and severe drought phase and emphasize the penalties
associated with violating the mandatory restrictions.
   (H)   Provide written notification monthly to the South Carolina Department
of Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the success of the
mandatory restrictions.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
§ 52.05 RATIONING.
   If a drought threatens the protection of public health and safety, the town
waterworks is hereby authorized to ration water.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
§ 52.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If any customer of the town waterworks to comply with the mandatory
water use restrictions of this chapter, the customer shall be given a written
notice of such failure to comply, which cites the date of said violation, and
shall, be assessed surcharges in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   First violation: $50 surcharge shall be added to the customer’s
water bill;
      (2)   Second violation: An additional $100 surcharge shall be added to
the customer’s water bill;
      (3)   Third violation: The customer’s water service shall be terminated
and restored only after payment of a surcharge of $250 in addition to all
previously assessed surcharges.
   (B)   Law enforcement agencies and other authorized agencies or designated
employees in the respective jurisdiction which is being supplied water by the
town waterworks shall diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
§ 52.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Customers, who in their belief are unable to comply with the mandatory
water use restrictions of this chapter, may petition for a variance from
restrictions by filing a petition with the town waterworks within ten working
days after the issuance of the proclamation requiring water use restrictions.
   (B)   All petitions for variance shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner;
      (2)   Purpose of water usage;
      (3)   Special provision from which the petitioner is requesting relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration adversely
affects the petitioner;
      (5)   Description of the relief desired;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Economic value of the water use;
      (8)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner complies
with this chapter;
      (9)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
      (10)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet restrictions from which the
variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
      (11)   Other information as needed.
   (C)   In order for the variance to be granted, the petitioner must
demonstrate clearly that compliance with this chapter cannot be technically
accomplished during the duration of the water supply shortage without having an
adverse impact upon the best interests of the community. The town waterworks is
authorized to grant the request for variance.
   (D)   In addition, the town waterworks is authorized to grant temporary
variances for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this chapter if it
is determined that failure to grant such variances could cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting health, sanitation and fire protection for the
public. No such variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any
violation of this chapter occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
Variances granted by the town waterworks shall include a timetable for
compliance and shall expire when the water supply shortage no longer exists,
unless the petitioner has filed to meet specified requirements.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
§ 52.08 STATUS.
   (A)   If any portion of this chapter is held to be unconstitutional for any
reason, the remaining portions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall prevail and control in the event
of any inconsistency between this chapter and other rules and regulations of
the town waterworks.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to invalidate or be
interpreted in a manner inconsistent with any covenants now in effect and given
as security to holders of bonds secured by revenues of the system.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-03)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.001   Short title
   
70.002   Definitions
   
70.003   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court
   
70.004   Powers of Council
   
70.005   Responsibility of vehicle owner
   
70.006   Fixing traffic tickets unlawful
   
70.007   Through streets
   
70.008   Obedience to police officers
Moving Traffic
   
70.025   State laws adopted by reference
   
70.026   Using vehicle for advertising, streets not for storage
   
70.027   Driving across private property to make turns
   
70.028   Limitations on backing of vehicles
   
70.029   Entering intersection or marked crosswalk
   
70.030   Moving on one-way streets
   
70.031   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
70.032   Riding on vehicle, motorcycles
   
70.033   Clinging to moving vehicle while riding motorcycle; riding on
handlebars
   
70.034   Use of coasters, roller skates, skateboards, and similar devices
restricted
   
70.035   U-turn unlawful
   
70.036   Operation on streets under repair, closed to travel
   
70.037   Driving on sidewalks
   
70.038   No passing zones
   
70.039   Spilling loads
   
70.040   Use of horn in quiet zones
   
70.041   Opening doors into traffic
   
70.042   Speed restrictions - when lower speeds required
   
70.043   Authority to establish
   
70.044   Trucks, truck tractors
   
70.045   Emergency vehicles, others to give way
   
70.046   Solid or cushion tires
   
70.047   Passing
   
70.048   Lane change
   
70.049   Enforcement dependent on visibility of signs
   
70.050   Interpretation, where there is no intersection
   
70.051   Flashing signals
   
70.052   Display of unauthorized signs
   
70.053   Careless driving
Speed Restrictions
   
70.070   General rule; maximum speed
   
70.071   When the maximum speed limit in a residential neighborhood can be
further reduced
Processions
   
70.085   Permits required; funerals excepted
   
70.086   Driving into funeral, parade or procession prohibited
   
70.087   Drivers in procession to follow closely
   
70.088   Identification
Parking, Standing, Stopping
   
70.100   Definitions
   
70.101   Direction, angle, etc., for parking restricted
   
70.102   Blocking streets and alleys
   
70.103   Narrow streets
   
70.104   Loading and unloading merchandise
   
70.105   When signs are erected
   
70.106   Marked spaces
   
70.107   Fire hydrants
   
70.108   Prohibited in certain areas adjacent to school
   
70.109   Designated parking for special events
   
70.110   Camping, sleeping, residing, etc., in parked motor vehicles, etc.
   
70.111   Double parking
   
70.112   Minimum width of roadway required to be free for traffic; blocking
public or private driveway prohibited
   
70.113   Overtime
   
70.114   Penalties
   
70.115   Failure to pay penalty
   
70.116   Emergency removal or vehicles
   
70.117   Towing and storage of vehicles
   
70.118   Charges to be a lien on vehicle
   
70.119   Impoundment procedures
   
70.120   Records to be maintained
   
70.121   Handicap parking; penalties
   
70.122   Enforcement
   
70.123   Responsibility of owner
Miscellaneous Traffic Offenses
   
70.150   Use of streets for sales and distribution prohibited
   
70.151   Display for sale, washing repairs, etc., prohibited
   
70.152   Accidents, assistance required
   
70.153   Interfering with signs, signals or devices
   
70.154   Animals ridden or driven on streets; human-powered vehicles
Pedestrians
   
70.170   Obedience to traffic control signals required
   
70.171   Use of right half of crosswalk
   
70.172   Walking on streets and roadways
   
70.173   Hitchhiking prohibited
   
70.174   Drivers to exercise due care with regard to pedestrians
Bicycles
   
70.185   Regulations applicable to bicycles
   
70.186   Applicability of traffic laws
   
70.187   Duty to keep to right
   
70.188   Riding abreast
   
70.189   Bicycle paths to be used
   
70.190   Riding bicycles on sidewalks in business district
   
70.191   Clinging to vehicles
   
70.192   Riding with “no hands”
   
70.193   Lights
   
70.194   Warning devices
   
70.195   Larceny of bicycles
   
70.196   Brakes
ATV’s and UTV’s
   
70.210   All-terrain vehicle (ATV)
   
70.211   Off-road utility vehicle (UTV)
   
70.212   Operations of ATV or UTV on roads in town
Golf Carts
   
70.230   Golf cart permits
   
70.231   Golf cart operations
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Traffic Ordinance.”
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of the chapter, the definitions of the S.C. Code 1976, § 56-
5-110 are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.003 JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The municipal court may try and determine criminal cases involving violation
of the provisions of this chapter or provisions of the 1976 South Carolina Code
of Laws, relating to motor vehicles and traffic occurring within the corporate
limits.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.004 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   For streets under the jurisdiction of the town, the Council shall have the
power and is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Regulate the operation and parking of vehicles within the corporate
limits by the erection or placing of proper signs or markers indicating
prohibited or limited parking, restricted speed areas, one-way streets, through
or arterial streets, U-turns, school zones, and other official traffic control
devices indicating the place or manner of operating or parking vehicles,
including loading zones.
   (B)   Regulate the movement of pedestrians upon the streets and sidewalks by
the erection or placement of proper signs or markers indicting the flow of
pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   Mark off traffic lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and
directing the flow of traffic.
   (D)   Secure all necessary signs, markers or official traffic control
devices to be erected or placed on any street or part of a street. The
existence of such signs, markers or official traffic control devices at any
place shall be prima facie evidence that such signs, markers or official
traffic control devices were erected or placed by and at the direction of the
council and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This shall
include all traffic signs, markers or official traffic control devices that
were placed prior to the passage of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.005 RESPONSIBILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER.
   No person shall allow or permit any vehicle registered in his name to
violate any chapter. Such violations of this chapter shall be presumed to be
with the knowledge of the owner of such vehicle.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.006 FIXING TRAFFIC TICKETS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any official or employee of the town to fix any
ticket or summons issued by the Police Department for a violation of this
chapter or any other traffic chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.007 THROUGH STREETS.
   When signs are officially erected by the town, streets and parts of streets
are hereby declared to constitute through streets. Traffic thereon shall be
subject to traffic control at all points or intersections where such signs are
provided.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.008 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
MOVING TRAFFIC
§ 70.025 STATE LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   All vehicles shall be operated in accordance with the conformity with
all current state laws and this chapter or amendments thereto enacted, as
relating to the operation of vehicles. Such provisions are adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter as if set out herein, except those provisions
relating solely to the South Carolina Department of Transportation and those
provisions the penalty for which exceeds a fine of $200 or imprisonment for
more than 30 days. Any person violating these provisions shall be, upon
conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As they apply to municipalities, all requirements of S.C. Code 1976,
Ch. 56, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter, as if set out in full herein. All owners of vehicles shall conform
with such requirements, and any person failing to conform therewith, upon
conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.026 USING VEHICLE FOR ADVERTISING, STREETS NOT FOR STORAGE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park any vehicle on any street for the
primary purpose of advertising without the prior approval of the Council.
   (B)   Streets shall not be used for storage by dealers, garages, etc.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.027 DRIVING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY TO MAKE TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to use a sidewalk area
or any driveway, parking lot or business entrance at any intersection to cut a
corner purposely. It is the intention of this section to prohibit corner-
cutting by driving a vehicle from one street into another across any sidewalk
and/or driveway.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.028 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING OF VEHICLES.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it unless such movement can be made
with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.029 ENTERING INTERSECTION OR MARKED CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate said vehicle without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.030 MOVING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets, or parts of streets, whereon signs shall have been
erected designating them as one-way streets, vehicular traffic shall move only
in the indicated direction.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.031 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while it is in motion.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.032 RIDING ON VEHICLE, MOTORCYCLES.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle, nor upon any portion thereof not
designated or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not
apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons
riding within truck bodies in a space intended for merchandise, but it shall
apply to the permanent seat of a motorcycle.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.033 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLE WHILE RIDING MOTORCYCLE; RIDING ON
HANDLEBARS.
   No person riding a motorcycle shall attach the same or himself to any moving
vehicle upon any street. Nor shall any motorcycle be operated in a reckless or
dangerous manner. Riding on handlebars is prohibited.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.034 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, AND SIMILAR DEVICES
RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon
any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk. No person upon
skateboards shall go within a one-block area of the downtown business area and
around the square.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.035 U-TURN UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to make a U-turn or
other prohibited turn at any point where such turn is prohibited by posted
signs or to accomplish a U-turn by deviously going into or through private
property adjoining a street where such turn is prohibited.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.036 OPERATION ON STREETS UNDER REPAIR, CLOSED TO TRAVEL.
   No person shall drive or cause to be driven any vehicle over any street
which is being repaired or paved or over any part of a street wholly closed to
travel.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.037 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride or drive a motor vehicle on the
sidewalks of any public streets, except for the purpose of crossing the same.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.038 NO PASSING ZONES.
   The Council may determine those portions of any street where overtaking and
passing a vehicle proceeding in the same direction or driving to the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones. When
such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of the vehicle shall obey the directions
thereof.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.039 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless such vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dripping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.040 USE OF HORN IN QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other
warning device of the vehicle, except in an emergency.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.041 OPENING DOORS INTO TRAFFIC.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to traffic
for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.042 SPEED RESTRICTIONS - WHEN LOWER SPEEDS REQUIRED.
   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of this
chapter, drive at an appropriate speed with approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway and when any special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or street conditions.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.043 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH.
   The Council may, from time to time, establish speed limits different from
those set out in this chapter on particular streets or parts of streets or in
particular areas. When signs or markings are installed giving notice of such
speed limits, it shall be unlawful to exceed the indicated speed.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.044 TRUCKS, TRUCK TRACTORS.
   Where no special hazards exist, motor trucks and motor truck tractors of a
size greater than one and a half tons shall obey signs posted giving notice of
special conditions.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.045 EMERGENCY VEHICLES, OTHERS TO GIVE WAY.
   (A)   The speed limitations set forth herein shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles when responding to emergency calls and the drivers thereof
sound an audible signal by siren, bell or exhaust whistle capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500
feet. Operators of other vehicles shall give way to the emergency vehicle,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer or other authorized person.
   (B)   This provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the street, nor shall it protect the driver of any vehicle from the
consequence of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.046 SOLID OR CUSHION TIRES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with solid rubber or cushion
tires at a speed greater than a maximum often miles per hour.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.047 PASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to pass another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction when the passing vehicles is within 100 feet of an
intersection, approaching a curve, when a solid yellow line is located in the
lane of the passing vehicle or upon a hill or grade.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.048 LANE CHANGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to shift lanes of traffic
without first ascertaining that a shift in lanes of traffic by his vehicle will
not impede or interfere with the movement of any other vehicle upon the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.049 ENFORCEMENT DEPENDENT ON VISIBILITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of this chapter, for which signs are required, shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in place and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular provision does not
state that signs are required, such provision shall be effective, even though
no signs are erected or in place.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.050 INTERPRETATION, WHERE THERE IS NO INTERSECTION.
   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at
a place other than an intersection, any stop required shall be made at a sign
or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.051 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection. The right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.052 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display upon or in
view of any street an unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal, or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such
prohibited sign, signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and the Chief of Police may remove the same or cause it to be removed without
notice.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.053 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle without due
care and caution and full regard for the safety of persons and/or property.
   (B)   Any person operating any vehicle without due care and caution and full
regard for the safety of persons and/or property shall be guilty of careless
driving, whether or not his driving results in personal injury and/or property
damage.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 70.070 GENERAL RULE; MAXIMUM SPEED.
   Generally. Where no special hazard requiring lower speed exists, the maximum
speed shall be 25 miles per hour on any street, unless otherwise posted, and no
person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of such maximum limit.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.071 WHEN THE MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT IN A RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD CAN BE
FURTHER REDUCED.
   Whenever the Town Council shall determine, after receipt of a petition
signed by 15% of the residents of a particular residential street and after a
traffic engineering study of the particular residential street, and after a
public hearing, Town Council may further lower the maximum speed limit on the
street(s) in said residential area by chapter designating the street(s) in such
residential area as having a maximum speed limit lower than 25 miles per hour.
The cost of the traffic engineering study shall be borne by the neighborhood
requesting the speed limit change.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
PROCESSIONS
§ 70.085 PERMITS REQUIRED; FUNERALS EXCEPTED.
   No procession, or parade, excepting the armed forces of the United States,
or of this state and forces of the police and fire departments, shall occupy,
march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a special event
permit issued by the town and such other regulations as are set forth herein
which may apply. Funerals shall be exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.086 DRIVING INTO FUNERAL, PARADE OR PROCESSION PROHIBITED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a funeral,
parade or other authorized procession while same are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required herein. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic signals or
police officers.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.087 DRIVERS IN PROCESSION TO FOLLOW CLOSELY.
   Each driver in a funeral, parade or other similar procession shall drive as
near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe, unless both sides of the road are
closed for the funeral, parade or other similar procession, then the middle of
the road may be utilized.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.088 IDENTIFICATION.
   A parade or procession, including funerals, composed of a procession of
vehicles, shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle as may be designated by the chief of police or his agent.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
PARKING, STANDING, STOPPING
§ 70.100 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle parked for longer than 24 hours in excess of
the time allowed for such parking by any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.101 DIRECTION, ANGLE, ETC., FOR PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel thereto,
headed in the direction of traffic and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle
within twelve inches of the edge of the roadway, unless as otherwise may be
permitted for angle parking and officially designated therefor.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.102 BLOCKING STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street or alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except that
a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations, traffic signs
or a police officer.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.103 NARROW STREETS.
   When signs prohibiting parking are erected on narrow streets, no person
shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.104 LOADING AND UNLOADING MERCHANDISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to load or unload merchandise from
trucks or other vehicles in front of any business, except where unable to load
or unload at the rear thereof and use of front door loading does not constitute
a traffic hazard. Stopping times shall be reasonable. If a business has a
designed loading area then trucks or other vehicles should utilize that area.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.105 WHEN SIGNS ARE ERECTED.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any street whereon such signs are erected.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.106 MARKED SPACES.
   All vehicles parked in areas in which parking spaces have been marked off or
designated shall be parked entirely within a single space.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.107 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful to park adjacent to fire hydrants in such a manner as
to interfere with emergency situations or vehicles.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.108 PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS ADJACENT TO SCHOOL.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.109 DESIGNATED PARKING FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any street
designated and posted within the Town of Pendleton during any event.
   (B)   The town shall post conspicuous signs at least two days in advance of
such event on the street designated for such an event. The posted signs shall
be no less than eleven inches by 17 inches and shall state the days, date and
times the street is to be closed and shall state that vehicles may be towed at
owner's expense listing the name and phone number of who to call if towed.
There shall be a minimum of four signs posted in each block of street that is
to be closed. The signs shall remain in place until the event has ended. The
Police Department shall have the authority to keep the street opened or closed
in the interest of Public Safety.
   (C)   Vehicles in violation of this chapter may be towed at the request of
the Police Department, at the owner's expense. Vehicles may not be towed unless
a citation is written by the Police Department.
   (D)   Violation of this section is a misdemeanor and the owner or operator
of the vehicle in violation shall be fined up to $500 and/or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days at the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.110 CAMPING, SLEEPING, RESIDING, ETC., IN PARKED MOTOR VEHICLES, ETC.
   No person shall camp, camp out, sleep, lodge, or take up residence in any
camper, van, bus, or other motor vehicle on the public streets or in any park
or public place; provided, however, a special event permit issued by the town
may authorize such activity so long as the activity shall not constitute a
nuisance and adequate measures shall be taken to ensure the safety of campers,
preserve the cleanliness of the immediate and surrounding areas, and minimize
adverse impacts on the community.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.111 DOUBLE PARKING.
   Except in emergencies, double parking, as commonly understood, is hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.112 MINIMUM WIDTH OF ROADWAY REQUIRED TO BE FREE FOR TRAFFIC; BLOCKING
PUBLIC OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street in such
a manner as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a driver shall stop
when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals
or a police officer.
   (B)   No person shall stand, stop or park any vehicle in front of a public
or private driveway or within three feet of either side thereof, or on the
opposite side of any public or private driveway in such a manner as to inhibit
the entry or departure from the driveway. A police officer or code enforcement
officer, prior to issuing a uniform ordinance summons for a violation of this
subsection, shall determine that the vehicle is inhibiting the entry or
departure from such driveway.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.113 OVERTIME.
   If any vehicle is parked for longer than 24 hours, in a public space, and
remains parked beyond the limited period, the vehicle shall be considered as
parking overtime and such parking shall be deemed in violation of this section.
To move a vehicle from one parking space directly to another parking space
located in the same block and on the same street, or within five consecutive
parking spaces as the first parking space, shall be deemed to be a continuous
occupation of a limited space. If said vehicle remains parked for a period of
time in excess of that allowed when the time spent in the first space is added
to the time spent in the second space and that total time exceeds that allowed,
said vehicle shall be deemed to be in violation of this section and will be
towed at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.114 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall park or permit the vehicle under his control to
be parked in a parking zone for a period longer than the permitted time shall
be subject to the fines as established from time to time.
   (B)   The fines hereby imposed shall be paid personally or by mail within a
period of 72 hours after the owner or operator of the parked vehicle has been
notified of the over-parking by parking tickets placed on the vehicle by a
member of the Police Department.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.115 FAILURE TO PAY PENALTY.
   Any person who shall fail to pay the fines imposed by the preceding section
or who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this
section for which no specific penalty is provided, or shall counsel, aid or
abet any such violation or failure to comply shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.116 EMERGENCY REMOVAL OR VEHICLES.
   If an emergency arises which, in the opinion of the town, necessitates the
removal of legally parked vehicles, the town shall remove such vehicles at its
own expense and notify the owners of the place where their vehicles can be
claimed.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.117 TOWING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are authorized hereby to remove any
vehicle from any of the town streets upon a violation of the provisions of this
chapter and tow it to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a
garage designated or maintained by the department or otherwise contracted by
the town. Such vehicle shall be held until claimed by the legal owner or until
it is otherwise disposed of.
   (B)   Before the owner of any such vehicle shall be entitled to recover the
possession of such vehicle, he shall pay the appropriate charges.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.118 CHARGES TO BE A LIEN ON VEHICLE.
   All towing, storage, violation and other charges imposed upon the owner or
operator of any illegally parked vehicle in connection with the impounding
thereof, shall constitute a lien upon the illegally parked vehicle. No such
impounded vehicle shall be released until all such charges have been paid and
proper evidence of ownership exhibited.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.119 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If any such vehicle is found by any police officer parked in violation
of this chapter, or abandoned on the streets of the town, it shall be the duty
of the officer to cause such vehicle to be removed and conveyed to a garage
designated by the wrecker rotation list, at the owner's expense. The owner, or
person in whose name such vehicle is registered, shall be given immediate
personal notice, if he is a resident of the town. If he is a nonresident, he
shall be given notice by certified mail, return receipt requested if his
address can be ascertained.
   (B)   If the address of such owner cannot be ascertained, the chief of
police or his agent, shall advertise that such car has been abandoned and
impounded, giving an accurate description thereof, including the name of the
person the vehicle is registered to, the circumstances under which the same was
found and removed and calling upon the owner to reclaim the same within 30
days. Such notice shall be published once a week for four consecutive weeks in
any newspaper in general circulation of the town. If such vehicle is not
reclaimed after such advertisement, the same shall be sold for cash at public
auction to the highest bidder in front of Town Hall or such other place as may
be designated therefor.
   (C)   The expenses of removing, keeping, advertising and selling the vehicle
shall be paid from the proceeds of such sale, and the balance, if any,
deposited by the town clerk/treasurer, subject to the claim of the owner to be
filed and proved within 12 months thereafter.
   (D)   If no such claim is filed and proven within that time, such proceeds
shall be forfeited to the town. (Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.120 RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   The Chief of Police or his agent, shall keep a written record of such
vehicle, the name of the registered owner, the license tag and the
circumstances under which it was found, impounded, stored and sold, including
the amount received at the sale.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.121 HANDICAP PARKING; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park any vehicle in a parking place clearly
designated for handicapped persons unless the vehicle bears the distinguishing
license plate or placard as provided in S.C. Code 1976, § 56-3-1960, as
amended.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person who is not handicapped or who is not
transporting a handicapped person to exercise the parking privileges granted
handicapped persons pursuant to S.C. Code 1976, § 56-3-1960, as amended.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, must be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $200 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days for each offense.
   (D)   For purposes of this section HANDICAPPED shall be defined as any
person who:
      (1)   Has an obvious physical disability that impairs the ability to walk
or requires the use of a wheelchair, braces, walkers or crutches;
      (2)   Has lost the use of one or both legs;
      (3)   Suffers from lung disease to such an extent that he is unable to
walk without the aid of a respirator;
      (4)   Is disabled by an impairment and mobility; or
      (5)   Is determined by the Social Security Administration or the
Veteran's Administration to be totally and permanently disabled.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.122 ENFORCEMENT.
   Is shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.123 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   If any vehicle is found upon a street in violation of any provision of this
regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the identity of
the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such vehicle
is registered, shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC OFFENSES
§ 70.150 USE OF STREETS FOR SALES AND DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to sell, solicit
sales or offer for distribution any merchandise, publication, handbill or
pamphlet while such person is standing in the street, areas reserved for
parking spaces, the areas reserved for loading and unloading or to enter any of
the said areas for the purpose of sale and/or delivery of any said items.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.151 DISPLAY FOR SALE, WASHING REPAIRS, ETC., PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park vehicles within any public right-of-way for
the principal purpose of displaying it for sale or washing, greasing or
repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.152 ACCIDENTS, ASSISTANCE REQUIRED.
   Every person driving a vehicle of any kind, which strikes or hits any person
or another vehicle, shall stop such vehicle at once and render such assistance
as he can, give his name, physical address, license number and serial number of
his vehicle to the other person or driver, shall assist in calling a police
officer and remain at the scene until a police officer arrives.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.153 INTERFERING WITH SIGNS, SIGNALS OR DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in any way alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal of any description, shield or insignia thereon or any
other part thereof.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.154 ANIMALS RIDDEN OR DRIVEN ON STREETS; HUMAN-POWERED VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or ride an animal or operate a vehicle propelled by
human power at such a speed or under such conditions that the animal or vehicle
shall not at all times be under full control and capable of being brought to a
full stop if circumstances require. In making a turn or crossing an
intersection, no such animal shall be ridden or driven and no such vehicle
shall be propelled at a speed in excess of five miles per hour.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 70.170 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   Pedestrians shall strictly comply with the directions of any official
traffic control signal, device, marking, etc., or police officer.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.171 USE OF RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of a
crosswalk.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.172 WALKING ON STREETS AND ROADWAYS.
   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any
pedestrian walking along and upon a street shall, when practicable, walk only
on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may
approach from the opposite direction.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.173 HITCHHIKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any vehicle.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.174 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE WITH REGARD TO PEDESTRIANS.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
any pedestrian upon any street and shall give warning by sounding the horn,
when necessary, and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child
or any confused or incapacitated person upon a street.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
BICYCLES
§ 70.185 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO BICYCLES.
   This section shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or
upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those
exceptions stated herein.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.186 APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this chapter, except as to special regulations herein and except as
to those provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no
application.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.187 DUTY TO KEEP TO RIGHT.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right side of the roadway as practicable.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.188 RIDING ABREAST.
   It shall be unlawful for persons on bicycles to ride more than two abreast,
except in parades, similar circumstances or on bicycle paths.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.189 BICYCLE PATHS TO BE USED.
   Whenever a usable path for bicycles may have been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.190 RIDING BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to ride a bicycle on a sidewalk in the
business district, except for the purpose of crossing the same when necessary.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.191 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon a bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy vehicle
shall attach it or them or himself to any vehicle on a roadway.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.192 RIDING WITH "NO HANDS."
   It shall be unlawful to operate a bicycle without having at least one hand
on the handlebar at all times or to fail to have control of the bicycle at all
times.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.193 LIGHTS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      AFTER DARK. The time during which the streetlights of the town are, or
should be, lighted.
   (B)   Equipment requirements. Every bicycle, when in use after dark, shall
be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear, when directly
in front of the head lamps on a motor vehicle. A red lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.194 WARNING DEVICES.
   No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle
any siren or whistle.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.195 LARCENY OF BICYCLES.
   The larceny of any bicycle shall be punishable at the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.196 BRAKES.
   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a brake which
will enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level and clean
pavement.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
ATV'S AND UTV'S
§ 70.210 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV).
   A motorized floatation-tire vehicle with not less than three and not more
than six non-highway tires that is limited in engine displacement to less than
1,000 cubic centimeters and in total dry weight to less than 1,200 pounds and
that has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and
handlebars for steering control.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.211 OFF-ROAD UTILITY VEHICLE (UTV).
   A motorized floatation-tire vehicle with not less than three and not more
than eight non-highway tires that is limited in engine displacement to less
than 1,500 cubic centimeters and in total dry width to less than 2,000 pounds
and that has a seat that is of bucket or bench design, not intended to be
straddled by the operator, and a steering wheel or control levers for control.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.212 OPERATIONS OF ATV OR UTV ON ROADS IN TOWN.
   ATV's and UTV's shall not be driven on any roads in the Town of Pendleton.
An ATV or UTV used as an authorized emergency vehicle is exempt from this
chapter. The terms of this section of the chapter shall not be required for
local government use.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.230 GOLF CART PERMITS.
   An individual or business owner of a vehicle commonly known as a golf cart
may obtain a permit decal and registration from the Department of Motor
Vehicles upon presenting proof of ownership and liability insurance for the
golf cart and upon payment of their required fee.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.231 GOLF CART OPERATIONS.
   During daylight hours only:
   (A)   A permitted golf cart may be operated within four miles of the address
on the registration certificate and only on a secondary highway or street for
which the posted speed limit is 35 miles an hour or less.
   (B)   A permitted golf cart may be operated within four miles of a point of
ingress and egress to a gated community and only on a secondary highway or
street for which the posted speed limits is 35 miles an hour. For this section,
a “gated community” means any homeowner's community with at least one access
controlled ingress and egress which includes the presence of a guard house, a
mechanical barrier, or another method of controlled conveyance.
   (C)   Within four miles of the registration holder's address, and while
traveling along a secondary highway or street for which the posted speed limit
is 35 miles an hour or less, a permitted golf cart may cross a highway or
street at an intersection where the highway has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles an hour.
   (D)   A person operating a permitted golf cart must be at least 16 years of
age and hold a valid driver's license. The operator of a permitted golf cart
being operated on a highway or street must have in his possession: the
registration certificate issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles, proof of
liability insurance for the golf cart and his driver's license.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days. However, no penalty shall exceed the penalty provided by
state law for similar offenses. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 18-06, passed 5-7-18)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   NOISE CONTROL
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
95.   PARADES, EVENTS, BLOCK PARTIES, PERFORMANCES AND FILMING
      
96.   TOBACCO CONTROL
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
98.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Powers of animal control officer, code enforcement officer or police
   
90.03   Resisting or hindering an animal control officer, code enforcement
officer or police
   
90.04   Rabies inoculation and tags - required
   
90.05   Suspicion of rabies - duty of owner to report symptoms and confine
animal
   
90.06   Applicability of Rabies Control Act
   
90.07   Animal care generally
   
90.08   Disposal of dead animals
   
90.09   Keeping domestic fowl; no disturbance of others
   
90.10   Coops for containment of fowl
   
90.11   Prohibitions and restrictions of animals in public places
   
90.12   Mistreatment of animals
   
90.13   Abandoning animals
   
90.14   Poisoning animals
   
90.15   Running at large
   
90.16   Prohibited animals
   
90.17   Giving away animals for commercial purposes
   
90.18   Animal destruction
Domesticated Animals
   
90.30   Female dogs and cats in heat
   
90.31   Nuisance animals
   
90.32   Barking dogs a menace
   
90.33   Vicious or dangerous animals
   
90.34   Emergency custody of attacking animals
 
   
90.97   Impoundment
   
90.98   Enforcement
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONMENT. Deserting, forsaking, or intending to give up absolutely any
animal without providing adequate food, water and or sanitary shelter for 48
hours or longer.
   ANIMAL. All domesticated creatures and pets, including but not limited to,
dogs, cats, horses, cows and goats.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person or office designated by the Mayor and
Town Council to enforce this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility or premises designated by the town for the
purpose of the impoundment, care or destruction of animals held pursuant to
this chapter.
   CAT. All members of the feline family.
   CERTIFICATE. A current and valid written proof of inoculation against rabies
by a duly licensed veterinarian.
   CONTRACT ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Anderson County Humane Society, Animal Shelter,
or such other organization or business, designated by the Town Administrator to
administer and enforce this chapter.
   DOG. All members of the canine family.
   EUTHANASIA. The act of putting to death in a humane manner.
   IMPOUND. To confine humanely while providing adequate food, shelter and
ventilation.
   KENNEL. Any facility wherein a person, business entity or organization
regularly keeps six or more dogs or other animals for any purpose and receives
compensation for the service or for the sale of animals.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male animal that has been operated on to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER OR KEEPER. Any person who:
      (1)   Has a right of property in an animal;
      (2)   Keeps or harbors an animal or has it in the person’s care, or acts
as its custodian for ten days or more; or
      (3)   Permits for 48 hours or longer an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by the person.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Being off the premises of the owner or keeper and not
under the physical control of the owner or keeper by means of a leash or other
similar restraining device.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female animal that has been operated on to prevent
conception.
   STRAY ANIMAL. An animal running at large with no identifiable owner.
   SWINE. Any hog, boar, pig (excluding miniature and pot-bellied pigs),
peccary, or like animal of the suidae or tayassuidae families.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint when it is on the premises of
its owner or keeper or when it is accompanied by its owner or keeper and under
control of such person by means of a leash or other similar restraining device.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal:
      (1)   With a propensity or inclination to attack unprovoked, to cause
injury to, or otherwise to endanger the safety of humans or domestic pets;
      (2)   Which has attacked a human being or domestic animal without
provocation; or
      (3)   Which is trained or used to fight or to attack humans or other
animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Untamed animal, living in its natural state, including but not
limited to alligators, crocodiles, bears, cat family, canine family, non-human
primates, and venomous snakes. This definition excludes non-venomous snakes.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.02 POWERS OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER, CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER OR POLICE.
   Any animal control officer, code enforcement officer, police officer or
designated contract enforcement agency of the municipality shall have power
within such officer’s discretion to take up and confine or destroy any animal
which such person may have reason to believe is rabid, or badly maimed, or in
violation of other sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.03 RESISTING OR HINDERING AN ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER, CODE ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER OR POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist, hinder or oppose the animal
control officer, code enforcement officer, contract enforcement agency, or
police or any person acting under their authority in the performance of any of
the duties imposed upon them by this chapter.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.04 RABIES INOCULATION AND TAGS - REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or have in possession any
dog which has not been inoculated against rabies within the preceding 12 months
by a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each person having a dog inoculated against
rabies to obtain from the veterinarian at the time of inoculation a certificate
along with a metal badge or tag so prepared as to be capable of being attached
to the collar of the dog, which badge or tag shall bear an inscription showing
that such dog has been inoculated against rabies and the year of such
inoculation. This badge or tag shall at all times be attached to the collar of
the dog so inoculated. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply
with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to
remove from the collar of a dog the metal tag or badge thereto attached and
which was issued by a duly licensed veterinarian at the time of issuance of a
certificate in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.05 SUSPICION OF RABIES - DUTY OF OWNER TO REPORT SYMPTOMS AND CONFINE
ANIMAL.
   Is shall be the duty of any person owning or having in possession any dog
within the town which develops all systems of rabies immediately to notify the
county rabies control officer of such condition; immediately confine such dog
securely in such a manner that there will be no opportunity for it to come in
contact with other animals, or with persons passing by; and keep such dog so
confined and segregated until such person is notified by the rabies control
officer that he again can set it at liberty, or until some other disposition is
made of such dog by the rabies control officer. The provisions of this section
apply as well to all other animals developing symptoms of rabies.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.06 APPLICABILITY OF RABIES CONTROL ACT.
   The provisions of S.C. Code 1976, § 47-5-10 et seq., commonly known as the
Rabies Control Act, are hereby adopted in their entirety, as the same may be
from time to time amended, as an integral part of this chapter, except insofar
as the provisions of such act may conflict with or be less restrictive than the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.07 ANIMAL CARE GENERALLY.
   (A)   No owner or keeper shall fail to provide such person’s animals with
sufficient wholesome food; clean, fresh water; proper shelter and protection
from the weather; veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering; and humane
treatment An owner or keeper of animals shall at all times maintain a clean
shelter and living area, free of accumulated waste and debris so that the
animal shall be free to walk or lie down without coming in contact with any
waste or debris.
   (B)   Proper shelter includes a structure appropriately sized for the animal
to stand or lie in a normal rnanner. The structure must adequately protect
animal from harsh weather; at a minimum, it shall have a roof, four sides and
an opening for ingress and egress.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a responsible party to tether an animal while
outdoors, except when alt of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The animal must be over the age of six months.
      (2)   The tether is connected to the animal with a buckle type collar or
a body harness made of nylon or leather and not less than one inch in width and
is one inch greater in diameter than the animal's neck or torso.
      (3)   The tether has the following properties:
         (a)   A minimum of 12-feet in length;
         (b)   A swivel type termination at both ends;
         (c)   Is not made of chain;
         (d)   Total weight does not exceed ten percent of the animal’s body
weight; and
         (e)   Is fabricated of a material that prevents tangles.
      (4)   The animal is not outside during extreme weather including, but not
limited to, extreme heat, extreme cold, snow, hail, tornadoes, thunderstorms,
tropical storms or hurricanes.
      (5)   The animal is tethered so as to prevent injury, strangulation or
entanglement.
      (6)   The animal has access to water, food and shelter.
      (7)   The animal is not tethered where any object may interfere or impede
free movement of the tether.
      (8)   The animal is not sick or injured.
      (9)   The animal is not tethered in such proximity to any other tethered
animal that would allow entanglement.
      (10)   The animal is not tethered on any property with an unoccupied
dwelling to include, but not limited to, abandoned, dilapidated or condemned
buildings.
      (11)   Any pulley, running line or trolley system to which a tether is
attached shall be no less than 15 feet in length and no more than seven feet
above ground.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper shall not allow any dead animal to remain on that
person’s property longer than 24 hours without sanitary disposal. This
prohibits the placing of the dead animal on the right-of-way to be picked up by
the town’ sanitation department.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, “sanitary disposal” includes burial of
individual animals in accord with applicable state law, as from time to time
amended, regulating the burial of dead animals.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.09 KEEPING DOMESTIC FOWL; NO DISTURBANCE OF OTHERS.
   No person shall keep on premises located in the town any chickens, turkeys,
ducks, guineas, geese, pheasants, pigeons or other domestic fowl, in quantities
or in a manner as to unreasonably disrupt or disturb the peace and quiet of any
person, or to interfere with the reasonable use of property or enjoyment of
life by any person, or unreasonably to cause damage, destruction, detriment or
impairment to public or private property or to the property’s value, or to
cause unreasonable.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.10 COOPS FOR CONTAINMENT OF FOWL.
   No person shall confine fowl in coops or other enclosures less than 18
inches in height. The coops or other enclosures shall allow fowl to move around
freely within the coops or enclosures. All coops or other enclosures used to
confine fowl shall be provided at all times with clean food and pure water
placed in containers outside of the coops or other enclosures, protected from
contamination, and accessible to the fowl at all times. Coops or other
enclosures used to confine fowl shall be provided with clean litter and cross-
ventilation at all times.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.11 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS OF ANIMALS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or other person having control or supervision of an
animal shall permit an animal, whether restrained or not, to be in an area in
which a special event is being held pursuant to a special event permit issued
by the town, unless the event permit specifically authorizes the presence of
animals.
   (B)   Any owner, keeper, or other person having control or supervision of an
animal must remove promptly all feces left by the animal upon any place where
people congregate or walk upon, including but not limited to, any street,
sidewalk, plaza, public park, playground, rights-of-way, or upon any public
property whatsoever within the town.
   (C)   No owner, keeper, or person having control or supervision of an
animal, shall permit the animal, whether restrained or not, to walk, run, or
stand on the premises of a cemetery.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to a guide, hearing, or service dog or
other dog which has been trained to accompany a person with a disability while
being accompanied by a disabled person or to any dog or horse in the custody or
control of a law enforcement officer while the officer is in the performance of
official duties. Nor shall it apply to an animal which remains at all times
within the confines of a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.12 MISTREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall starve, beat, neglect, ill-treat, torment, overload,
overdrive, overwork, needlessly mutilate, cruelly kill, or inflict unnecessary
pain upon any animal. No person shall encourage, provoke, cause or instigate
any fighting between animals or between animals and humans.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.13 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper shall abandon an animal.
   (B)   If an animal is found abandoned by its owner or keeper, the animal
control officer may take custody and impound the animal in the animal shelter.
The animal shall be kept for not less than five days in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §
90.97.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.14 POISONING ANIMALS.
   Is shall be unlawful for any person to put or place any strychnine,
antifreeze, other poisonous compounds, or ground glass on any foodstuffs with
the intent to poison any animal; provided, that this section shall not apply to
the poisoning of insects, spiders, or worms in a reasonable manner for the
purpose of protecting plants, gardens, or structures, nor to poisons used for
the purpose of extermination of rats, mice, and other undomesticated rodents.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.15 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper shall willfully or negligently permit any animal to run
at large beyond the limits of such person’s own land or the land lawfully
occupied or controlled by the owner or keeper.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.16 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain any wild animal in the town.
   (B)   No person shall keep or maintain any swine in the town.
   (C)   This section does not preclude wild animals in zoos, circuses, or in
exhibitions when under the supervision of a professional who by training and
experience is qualified to provide food and care for the animals kept or
maintained. This section does not apply to wild animals weighing less than ten
pounds when the animal is confined in a cage at all times.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.17 GIVING AWAY ANIMALS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or give away as merchandising premiums
baby chickens, ducklings or other fowl under four weeks old or rabbits under
two months old. This section does not apply to animals to be used or raised for
agricultural purposes by persons with proper facilities to care for the animals
or for poultry or livestock exhibitions.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.18 ANIMAL DESTRUCTION.
   In addition to all other provisions of this chapter, any agent or officer of
the Department of Health and Environmental control or police officer or officer
of the South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals or any
society duly incorporated for that purpose, or any animal control officer may
lawfully destroy, or cause to be destroyed, any animal or pet found abandoned
and not properly cared for, appearing to be glandered, injured or diseased past
recovery for any useful purpose, in accordance with S.C. Code 1976, § 47-1-80.
Further, any other animal or pet received by such agents or officers in
critical condition from wounds, injuries, or disease, may, if in their opinion
it is in the best interest of the animal or pet, be lawfully destroyed as
prescribed by law, if the owner cannot be contacted in a timely manner, so as
to reduce undue suffering to the animal.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
DOMESTICATED ANIMALS
§ 90.30 FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a shelter or secure
enclosure so that the female dog or cat does not become accessible to an un-
neutered male of the same species except for planned breeding purposes.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.31 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   The actions of an animal constitute a public nuisance when an animal
disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety of, or injures a member of the
general public, damages property, or interferes with the ordinary use and
enjoyment of the property of others in the vicinity of where the animal is kept
or properties affected by its running at large.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in a manner so as to constitute a public nuisance. By way of example
and not of limitation, the following acts or actions by an owner or keeper are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance; and are therefore, unlawful:
      (1)    Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone
other than its owner or keeper, or to impede the property’s ordinary use and
enjoyment, even if the property is not physically damaged.
      (2)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps
at, or attacks persons, bicycles, or vehicles, or maintaining any animal whose
behavior constitutes a reasonable risk of injuring a human or other animal.
      (3)   Maintaining property in a manner which results in an environment of
unsanitary conditions causing offensive odors, filth, vermin, or disease; or is
dangerous to the animal or the public health, safety or welfare of the
community because of the number type, variety, density, or location of the
animals on the property.
      (4)   Allowing or permitting an animal to whine, crow or cackle, without
being provoked, in an excessive, continuous, or unreasonable fashion, or to
make other noise, without being provoked, in a manner so as to result in a
serious interference with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring
premises.
   (C)   Upon the receipt of a complaint that a person is violating the
provisions of this section, the animal control officer or other appropriate law
or codes enforcement officer shall investigate the complaint. If the
investigation determines that the complaint is justified, the animal control
officer or other appropriate law or codes enforcement officer shall notify the
owner or keeper of the animal, in writing, to correct the violation.
   (D)   Should the owner or keeper of any animal found to be in violation of
this section fail to correct the violation after ten days of the date of
notice, the owner or keeper shall be subject to the penalties for violations
provided in this chapter and may be subject to impoundment of the animal.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.32 BARKING DOGS A MENACE.
   (A)   The barking or howling of any dog to such an extent or so continuously
as to materially interfere with or affect the health, comfort, peace and quiet
or dignity of the public is hereby declared to be a nuisance and any person
harboring or keeping in his/her possession such animal who shall fail and
refuse to take such action or do such things as will abate such nuisance when
requested to do so by the Animal Control Officer or the police shall be guilty
of misdemeanor.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of two written and signed complaints, from separate
households in close proximity to the offender, that a person is violating the
provisions in (A) above, the Animal Control Officer or other appropriate law or
codes enforcement officer shall investigate the complaint. If the investigation
determines that the complaint is justified, the Animal Control Officer or other
appropriate law or codes enforcement shall notify the owner or keeper of the
animal, in writing, to correct the violation.
   (C)   Should the owner or keeper of any animal found to be in violation of
the provisions in (A) above, after 15 days of the date of notice, the owner or
keeper shall be subject to the penalties in (A) above.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.33 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, have charge of or in any way maintain or
harbor within the town any animal which is vicious or dangerous as described in
§§
90.01 et seq., or that has attacked or injured any person without provocation.
This section shall not apply to any animal that attacks any person or animal
which is unlawfully upon its owner’s or keeper’s premises or complied with
division (C) below.
   (B)   Any person witnessing an animal attacking a human being, shall notify
the rabies control officer of the County Health Department. Whenever the animal
control officer has determined that an animal has bitten or attacked a person,
the animal control officer shall promptly notify the County Health Department
of the bite or attack and shall cooperate with the Health Department in its
impounding and quarantining the animal. No impoundment facility maintained by
the town, under contract to the town and/or designated by the town shall be
required to impound an animal known to have bitten a human being and suspected
of having rabies.
   (C)   If the animal control officer determines that an animal has dangerous
propensities or is a nuisance as defined in §§
90.30 et seq., or that it has attacked someone either:
      (1)   Without provocation; or
      (2)   Without causing serious bodily harm, the animal control officer
shall notify the owner or keeper by serving a written notice upon such person
to confine the animal to the owner’s or keeper’s premises within five days of
the notice in a securely enclosed and locked pen. The pen must have all sides
six feet high or a secure top. If the pen has no bottom secured to the sides,
the sides must be embedded into the ground at least one foot deep. The premises
must be clearly posted giving notice that a dangerous animal is kept on the
property. Failure to comply within the five-day period shall be cause to seize
and dispose of the animal as set forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   If the animal control officer determines there has been a violation of
division (C) above, then the animal control officer shall notify the owner or
keeper immediately in writing, if the owner or keeper is known. The owner or
keeper shall turn the animal over to the animal control officer immediately
after the notification or relocate the animal by giving the animal to an
individual or organization not within the limits of the town, subject to
protective and inspection conditions required by the contract and/or designated
enforcement agency, for the well-being of the animal and the protection of the
public. If the owner or keeper fails to promptly relocate or surrender the
animal, such person may be arrested for a violation of this section and the
animal may be seized pending trial. Upon final determination or conviction, the
Animal Shelter may dispose of the animal by:
      (1)   The humane destruction of the animal; or
      (2)   By giving the animal to an individual or organization not within
the limits of the town, subject to protective and inspection conditions
required by the contract and/or designated enforcement agency, for the well-
being of the animal and the protection of the public. An animal declared to be
a vicious or dangerous animal shall not be disposed of for research or
experimental purposes.
   (E)   This section does not apply to animals of licensed security companies
on patrol in a confined area or animals used for law enforcement purposes by
law enforcement officers.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.34 EMERGENCY CUSTODY OF ATTACKING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Whenever the animal control officer or a police officer receives
credible information that a dog or other animal has attacked savagely and
brutally a human being or domestic pet, and the whereabouts of the attacking
animal is known, the animal control officer shall have the emergency authority
to enter the exterior area of private premises to retrieve the animal. The term
exterior area shall mean any part of the premises which is outside the close of
the residence, commercial building or other enclosed structure. The consent of
the animal owner or the lawful occupant of the premises is not necessary to
seize the attacking animal. No warrant shall be required under these
circumstances, and it shall be unlawful to resist or interfere with the animal
control officer or police officer in taking such action.
   (B)   Upon taking custody of the animal, the animal control officer shall
provide to its owner a written notice of the basis for the seizure, shall
arrange for the animal’s humane custody and confinement pending a hearing
before the municipal judge, and shall notify the animal owner as soon as
feasible of the expected hearing date, which shall be no later than five days
from the date of seizure, unless the municipal judge shall determine there is
compelling reasons to extend the date. Leaving the written notice reasonably
secure at the front or primary entrance to the house or structure on the
property where the animal is seized, shall be sufficient delivery to the owner
if the owner is not present or if the owner’s location cannot be determined.
   (C)   At the hearing the animal control officer or police officer, or other
representative of the town, shall present evidence, if any, that the animal
presents a clear and imminent threat to public safety and that the on premises
facilities for confining the attacking animal are not reliably sufficient to
restrain the animal or to prevent its release by persons choosing to do so. The
animal owner shall be afforded an opportunity to rebut the evidence.
   (D)   If the judge finds that the animal is by virtue of the known attack a
dangerous or vicious animal, as defined in §§
90.01 et seq., then the judge shall order that the animal shall be banned from
the Town of Pendleton, regardless of the confinement precautions otherwise in
place, and the judge shall order the animal removed from the town or destroyed,
and if the animal is to be removed from the town then precautions against its
re-entry shall be established to the full extent feasible. If the animal is not
destroyed or removed as ordered by the judge, then it shall be a violation of
this chapter to possess the animal or to allow it to run at large and each day
of a continuing violation shall be a separate violation, punishable as
otherwise provided for under this chapter.
   (E)   In lieu of a bench trial, the animal owner may elect to have a jury
trial on the facts of the dangerous nature of the animal. Pending the jury
trial, the municipal judge shall make arrangements that are just and fair for
the retention of the animal.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.97 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Picking up stray and vicious animals. Any person on whose property a
vicious, abandoned, or stray animal or animal running at large is found may
contact the animal control officer for pickup. Where an animal is not vicious
or dangerous, but harmless and non-threatening to persons or animals, has been
inoculated with a proper and effective rabies vaccine, and carries a license
tag securely fastened to its collar, the animal control officer may issue to
the known owner or keeper of the animal a notice of chapter violation in lieu
of impoundment.
   (B)   Notice to owners or keepers. Upon impoundment of the animal, the
Animal Shelter will exercise due diligence to ascertain and notify by
reasonable means the owner or keeper of the animal’s impoundment. If the owner
or keeper claims the animal within five business days of impoundment, the
animal control officer or Animal Shelter shall notify such person of the terms
for the animal’s release.
   (C)   Release of impounded animals. An owner or keeper may obtain release of
the impounded animal within five business days of impoundment upon satisfactory
proof of ownership, by payment of an impoundment fee and boarding fee per
animal and upon presentation of a current rabies inoculation certificate.
   (D)   Period of impoundment and disposition of unclaimed animals. An
impounded animal which remains unclaimed by an owner or keeper after five
business days shall be deemed abandoned and shall automatically and irrevocably
become the sole property of the Animal Shelter to convey, devise, dispose by
euthanasia as the Animal Shelter determines appropriate.
   (E)   Disposition of vicious animals. If the animal is vicious, dangerous,
or a threat to staff maintaining custody or to other impounded animals, the
animal control officer and/or Animal Shelter shall have discretion to reduce
the duration of time of impoundment in order to exercise property rights,
convey, devise, dispose, or destroy the animal.
   (F)   Unauthorized release from impoundment. No person may release from
impoundment any animal placed by the animal control officer in impoundment,
without meeting the requirements of this chapter and the rules and regulations
of the Animal Shelter.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notification of nuisance. When a complaint has been lodged against an
animal that has committed a nuisance act only, the owner or keeper of the
animal shall be notified.
      (1)   By personal delivery of written notice to the owner or keeper of
the animal, or by leaving written notice at the usual place of abode of the
owner or keeper with a person of suitable age and discretion; or
      (2)   By depositing in the United States Mail the notice addressed to the
owner or keeper at such person’s last known address.
   (B)   Procedure for search warrant and seizure. A search warrant may be
issued by a municipal court judge authorized to issue warrants upon the judge’s
determination that there is a probable cause to believe that a violation of
this chapter in any particular building, premises or place exists or has
occurred. The search warrant shall authorize any law enforcement officer,
accompanied by the animal control officer, to search the building or place, but
no search shall be made after sundown unless specifically authorized by the
judge upon satisfactory cause. The animal control officer may examine the
animal and take possession of the animal upon determining grounds for taking
possession or custody exist under this chapter. The animal control officer may
also pursue any additional violations of this chapter as may be ascertained as
a result of the search or seizure.
   (C)   Disposition. Domesticated animals, whether abandoned, vicious, running
at large or mistreated shall be disposed of in accord with regulations of the
contract enforcement agency and the town’s general power to preserve and
protect order, peace, safety, and public health. Any facility to which a
captured or wild animal is submitted shall exercise due diligence to return a
wild animal to its natural environment, or if the animal is not suitable for
return, then the facility operator shall use due diligence in seeking
alternative and humane placement outside town limits, prior to disposing of the
animal as otherwise permitted.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined or imprisoned as determined by
the Court for each offense (fine is not to exceed $500 and/or 30 days
imprisonment).
(Ord. 16-08, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-22, passed 9-6-16)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
91.01   Cleaning of lots
   
91.02   Open burning
§ 91.01 CLEANING OF LOTS.
   (A)   No person may cause or allow on premises under his or her control,
including curbs, rights-of-way, roadside ditches on all sides of the property,
one-half of alleyways, and grass strips from the sidewalk abutting such
premises, any overgrowth of weeds, grasses or other plants or bushes, noxious
growth or overhanging shrubbery, trash, garbage, offal, stagnant water,
building materials, glass, wood or other matter that becomes or threatens to
become a fire hazard, harboring place for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin,
or otherwise poses a danger to the public health or safety.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no person may cause,
suffer or permit on premises under his or her control the growth of weeds or
grass to a height of 18 inches or more within 100 feet of any structure.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) or (B), the Town Administrator, through
the department designated by him or her, may cause the immediate removal of any
shrubbery and trees from street rights-of-way and may also cause the removal of
dangerous plantings and limbs from such rights-of-way.
   (D)   Every railroad company whose tracks extend within the limits of this
town shall keep the ditches or gutters on both sides of and between such tracks
on its right-of-way clear of noxious growth, trash, garbage and filth of every
kind and so graded that the water will not stink or become stagnant in such
ditches or along tracks.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to summon the
owner of such premises in violation of divisions (A) through (D). If, after
fully hearing the matter and any statement the owner may make and any testimony
he or she may offer on his or her behalf concerning such matters, the Code
Enforcement Officer should find such premises or lot in a condition tending to
injure the public health, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a written
order or notice directed to the owner, directing and requiring him or her
within a certain specified time to clear such premises or lot in order to abate
such nuisance.
   (F)   If any person who was ordered to abate a nuisance pursuant to this
section fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition
constituting the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the last order
relating thereto, the Town Administrator shall cause the condition to be
removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or a private
contractor designated by the Town Administrator go upon the premises and remove
or otherwise abate the nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee
or a private contractor designated by the Town Administrator. As to the
uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds, bushes, undergrowth or grass to height in
excess of 18 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety, any time within the calendar year in which notice was
given that the condition is found to exist, the condition is to be removed or
otherwise remedied as set forth below:
      (1)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a nuisance may within the
time allowed by this section request the town in writing to remove the
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request;
      (2)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land and it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk or other appropriate town
official to mail a statement of the charges to the owner or other person in
possession of the premises with instructions that the charges are due and
payable within 30 days from receipt thereof;
      (3)   If charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in division (F)(2), the charges shall be entered as a judgment lien upon
the land or premises where the public nuisance was located; and
      (4)   If charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in division (F)(3), the charges shall also become a lien upon any other
real property owned by the person in default within the county just as any
other money judgment, except for the person's primary residence, and shall be
entered by the Clerk of Court as a judgment on the County Judgment Roll. A lien
established pursuant to this division shall be collected as a money judgment.
This provision shall not apply if the person in default can show that the
nuisance was created solely by the actions of another.
   (G)   In this section the term NUISANCE means the doing of an unlawful act,
the omitting to perform a duty or the suffering or permitting any condition
orthing to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage;
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (5)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. 77-09, passed - -77; Am. Ord. 95-17, passed 11-14-95; Am. Ord. 99-05,
passed 6-7-99; Am. Ord. 13- 11, passed 1-6-14) Penalty, see  §
10.99
§ 91.02 OPEN BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, at any time, to burn leaves, garbage,
waste or any other substance, within the town limits of the town (with the
following exceptions):
   (A)   Fires may be used for the cooking of food, provided no smoke violation
or other nuisance is created.
   (B)   Small open fires may be set for recreational purposes, such as in fire
pits, barbecue pits, or grills, provided no violation or nuisance is created.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 5-7-07)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Intent
   
92.03   Violations declared nuisances
   
92.04   Enforcement
   
92.05   Excessive noise
   
92.06   Exemptions
   
92.07   Specific prohibitions
   
92.08   Noise
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any noise prohibited by §
92.05.
   RESIDENTIAL AREAS. Areas of the town containing single-family and
multifamily dwellings which include houses, apartments, condominium projects,
mobile homes and mobile home parks.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
§ 92.02 INTENT.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to alter, amend or repeal the provisions
contained in §
92.08.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
§ 92.03 VIOLATIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   Any unreasonable loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise which causes material
distress, discomfort or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities in the
immediate vicinity thereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
prohibited. Any noise of such character, intensity and continued duration which
substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of private dwellings by
persons of ordinary sensibilities is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
ameliorating such nuisance, residents of nearby dwellings who suffer from such
nuisance are first encouraged to request of the party creating the nuisance, to
the extent that prudence and safety allows, that such nuisance be halted.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
§ 92.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the county Sheriff’s
Office or other duly authorized enforcement personnel.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
§ 92.05 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make or continue or
cause to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary and unusual noise which
disturbs the peace and quiet of any unincorporated residential area or which
causes discomfort or annoyance to any person of ordinary sensibilities in the
town. This shall include but not be limited to, noises made by motor vehicles,
mechanical devices, electrical devices, electronic devices, human voice,
musical instruments, animals and all activities accessory to residential
living. This shall generally not include noise made by activity that is
regulated by §
92.08, except in the case of activity prohibited by §
92.07, which is prohibited in all circumstances, or by future land use
ordinances which may be adopted by the town.
   (B)   In determining whether an occurrence constitutes a violation under
this section, a court or other authority should consider, in addition to all
other logically relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   The intensity of the noise;
      (2)   The general characteristics of the area in which the noise is
occurring;
      (3)   The time of day or night that the noise is occurring;
      (4)   The reasonable expectation of quiet that could be expected by
individuals on public or private property surrounding the area in which such
noise is occurring;
      (5)   Any previous request by neighbors and/or law enforcement officers
for the abatement of any such noise;
      (6)   In the case of all motorized vehicles, including, without
limitation, off road vehicles, motorcycles and all watercraft, whether or not
such vehicles are equipped with mufflers and/or such suppression devices which
keep exhaust noises down to a level equal to or below that which the
manufacturers of such vehicles provided as original equipment; and
      (7)   Also in the case of motor vehicles, whether or not such noise
emanating from such vehicles has such volume as to cause the driver of such
vehicle not to hear emergency sirens or warning horns from a safe distance.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Noises arising from normal farm activities are exempt from action
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   No prohibition contained in this chapter shall apply to any public
performance, gathering, or parade for which permission or a permit has been
properly obtained from the town or to any public performance, gathering, or
activity conducted or sponsored by a public or governmental body.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
§ 92.07 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following acts are specifically prohibited as further illustrations, or
in addition to the general prohibitions contained in §§
92.03,
92.05, and
92.08, and not, in any form or interpretation, in lieu of the general
prohibitions contained in §§
92.03,
92.05, and
92.08.
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any motor vehicle or any street or public place in the unincorporated area
of this town continuously and/or incessantly for a period of excess of 60
seconds, except as a danger warning.
   (B)   Radios, television, musical instruments and similar devices.
      (1)   The operating or playing of any radio, musical instrument and
devices commonly known as boom boxes or similar device which produces or
reproduces sound on the public rights-of-way, other than as specified in
division (B)(2) of this section, in such a manner as to be plainly audible to
any person other than the operator of the device.
      (2)   The operating or playing of any radio/boom box, television,
phonograph, musical instrument or similar device which produces or reproduces
sound in a motor vehicle or public area or area with public access or in public
use, in a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet or inside
any residence other than the sound source.
      (3)   The operating or playing or any radio/boom box, television,
phonograph, musical instrument or similar device which produces or reproduces
sound in such a manner as to exceed the levels set forth in Table 1.
   (C)   Loudspeakers and sound amplifiers. The using or operating of any
loudspeaker, loudspeaker system, sound amplifier or other similar device
(collectively, “sound systems”) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
on weekdays and 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays, within or
adjacent to residential or noise sensitive areas such that the sound there from
is plainly audible across the real property line of the source and/or to the
interior of any residence, business or building other than the sound source;
during all hours, such use of sound systems will be a violation if the
resulting sound or noise occurs continuously or incessantly at anytime of day
or night for a period often minutes or intermittently over a continuous period
of one-half hour or more during any 24-hour period, all to the disturbance of
any person; any business operating any sound systems must contain sound from
such device(s) within the premises or property where the business exists.
Keeping sound inside the premises or property may be done with structural
enhancements or acoustical treatments, or lowering of volume from the sound
systems. Such sound systems used in any outdoor or outdoor-like environment,
such as a patio area, must not be directed so as to point away from the
business and/or toward any other home or business without the express, written
approval of those affected by such use.
   (D)   Street sales and auctions. The offering for sale by shouting or
outcry/ whether amplified or not, within any residential, commercial or noise-
sensitive area except upon permission by the town.
   (E)   Animals. The owning, possessing or harboring of any animal which
frequently, or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes
other sounds which create excessive and unnecessary noise across a residential
or commercial real property line or within a noise-sensitive area. For the
purpose of this chapter “barking dog” shall mean a dog that barks, bays, cries,
howls or makes any other noise continuously and/or incessantly for a period
often minutes, or barks intermittently for one- half hour or more to the
disturbance of any person at any time of day or night, regardless of whether
the dog is physically situated in or upon private property; provided however,
that a dog shall not be deemed a barking dog if, at the time the dog is barking
or making any other noise, a person is trespassing or threatening to trespass
upon property in or upon which the dog is situated.
   (F)   Emergency signaling devices. Subject to the exemptions of §
92.06(b), herein;
      (1)   Except in case of an emergency, the intentional sounding of any
alarm between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (2)   The testing of any alarm for a period in excess of 60 seconds at
any time; and
      (3)   The testing of a complete emergency signaling system, including the
signaling device and the personnel response to the signaling device, more than
once in each calendar month, and the sounding of the emergency signaling system
for a period in excess of 15 minutes.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
§ 92.08 NOISE.
   (A)   Continuous sound levels (i.e. sound levels that remain essentially
constant during the period of observation or measurement) from a facility or
property shall not exceed the maximum limits established in Table 1, as
measured at the specified locations.
Table 1
 
Location Receiving the Noise Hours of the Day        Maximum Sound Level in A-
                                                     Weighted Decibels (dBA)
At a nonresidential lot line 7:00 a.m to 10:00 p.m.  74 dBA
                            10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 69 dBA
At a residential lot line    7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 70 dBA
                            10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 65 dBA
 
   (B)   The sound levels identified in Table 1 shall be measured in decibels
and A-weighted, with the unit of measurement being designated as dBA. For the
purpose of determining dBA’s, the noise shall be measured on the A-weighting
scale of a sound level meter that conforms to American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) Standard S1.4-1971 “Specifications for Sound Level Meters”, or
latest revision. Traffic, aircraft and other background sounds shall be
considered in taking noise measurements, when such background sound interferes
with the primary noise being measured.
   (C)   For any source of sound that is of short duration and is non-
repetitive, the maximum sound level limits set forth in Table 1 shall be
increased by ten dBA from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (D)   For any source of impulsive sound which is of short duration with an
abrupt onset and rapid decay (e.g. explosions), the maximum sound level limits
set forth in Table 1 shall be increased by ten dBA from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (E)   For any source of an impulsive sound that is repetitive (e.g.
hammering), the maximum sound level limits in Table 1 shall be decreased by
five dBA from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (F)   Noises from construction activities between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
shall be exempt from the provision of this chapter. Construction activity means
any site preparation, assembly, erection, repair, alteration or similar
activity and any associated equipment testing.
   (G)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to devices used solely for
the purpose of warning, protecting, or alerting the public or some segment
thereof, of the existence of an emergency situation or to noise resulting from
the performance of emergency work.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any section of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by a fine of $500. Article XIII of the Town of
Pendleton’s Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 09-15, passed 2-1-10)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Reserved
   
93.02   Tobacco use prohibited
Park Rules
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Hours
   
93.17   General conduct
   
93.18   Park property protected
   
93.19   Fires and fireworks prohibited
   
93.20   Camping prohibited
   
93.21   Alcohol prohibited
   
93.22   Use of tobacco products prohibited
   
93.23   Animals
   
93.24   Protection of animals
   
93.25   Use of town park facilities
   
93.26   Priority use of facilities
   
93.27   Emergency powers
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 RESERVED.
§ 93.02 TOBACCO USE PROHIBITED.
   The use of tobacco, in any form, is prohibited on the town property known as
Veterans Park.
(Ord. 08-17, passed 1-5-09)
PARK RULES
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. An area of land, usually in a natural state, having facilities for
rest and/or recreational use or providing open space for leisure activities and
customarily used by the general public for such uses and activities.
   TOWN PARK. A park owned or operated by the town.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.16 HOURS.
   The hours of operation of all parks, with the exception of the Village
Green, shall be sunrise to sunset, or as otherwise posted. It shall be a
violation of this subchapter for any person to be in or upon a park beyond the
posted closing time or after sunset. The use of parks by the public at any
other time shall be by permit only.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.17 GENERAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall throw away or leave refuse or trash except in waste
receptacles placed by the town.
   (B)   No person shall engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive,
insulting or indecent language, or engage in disorderly conduct or behavior
constituting a breach of the peace in any park facility.
   (C)   No person shall be under the age of ten without immediate supervision
of a responsible adult at all times.
   (D)   Parking is allowed only in designated areas.
   (E)   No person shall ignore or remove a reservation notice posted by the
town.
   (F)   No person shall have glass containers.
   (G)   No person shall skateboard, skate, roller blade or use any other
wheeled recreational equipment or vehicle on Trotter's Trail, Barrett's Place
Playground, or the Pavilion.
   (H)   No person, except law enforcement officers while carrying out the
duties and responsibilities of their position, shall carry on his or her person
firearms of any description, knives, bows and arrows, crossbows, air or gas
guns, missiles or missile- throwing devices or other dangerous weapons. No
person shall cause any of the aforementioned weapons to be discharged in, into,
and/or through any park area. Any person who has satisfied the provisions of
S.C. Code §§ 23-31-205 et seq., as amended, commonly referred to as the Carry
Concealed Weapon (CCW) law, and has in his/her possession a valid CCW permit,
may carry a concealed pistol but may not discharge the pistol.
   (I)   No person shall erect a sign or attach a sign to property owned or
controlled by the town, nor shall any person display any placard, notice,
advertisement, circular, banner or statement of any other kind other than a
permanent sign on a vehicle without a permit from the town.
   (J)   No person shall sell or offer for sale, any article, privilege or
service unless such sale is pursuant to a contract or an agreement with the
town.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.18 PARK PROPERTY PROTECTED.
   (A)   No person shall mark, destroy, deface, alter, damage or remove any
building structure, benches, signs or other similar apparatus or equipment
unless authorized to do so in writing by the town.
   (B)   No person shall dig, disfigure or remove any soil or vegetation or any
excavation on park property unless authorized to do so in writing by the town.
   (C)   No person shall construct any building or structure or signs unless
authorized to do so in writing by the town.
   (D)   No person shall climb, damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any
tree or plant.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.19 FIRES AND FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Fires are authorized in a barbeque grill or town provided grilling
equipment for the purpose of cooking only and must be extinguished prior to
leaving the area. A fire shall be deemed properly extinguished when ashes,
residue, coals and unburned substances are cold to the human touch. The dumping
of hot ashes or fire from a portable barbeque grill onto the grass or plants is
prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall build or attempt to build any fires within a park
unless authorized to do so in writing by the town, and then only after
obtaining any permits required by the town and/or the town fire department.
   (C)   No person shall bring or have in their possession or set off or
otherwise cause to explode, discharge or burn any firecrackers, torpedoes,
rockets or other fireworks or explosives or flammable material onto any park
property, unless authorized to do so in writing by the town, and then only
after obtaining any permits required by the town and/or the town fire
department.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.20 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall set up any tent, shack or any other temporary shelter for
the purpose of overnight camping in a park. Any movable structure or special
vehicle to be used or that could be used for such purpose, such as a home
trailer, camp trailer, camp wagon or recreational vehicle, shall not be used
for overnight camping in a park unless authorized in writing by the town, and
then only after obtaining any permits required.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.21 ALCOHOL PROHIBITED.
   No person shall have any alcoholic beverage in their possession in any park
unless authorized in writing by the town, and then only after obtaining any
permits required.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.22 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any tobacco product, including
but not limited to a lighted cigar, cigarette or other lighted smoking material
or equipment, chewing tobacco, “dip,” or snuff in any park.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.23 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No pets shall be allowed in parks posted “NO PETS” with the exception
of service animals. SERVICE ANIMALS are defined as animals that are
individually trained to perform tasks for people with disabilities. Service
animals are working animals, not pets.
   (B)   Otherwise:
      (1)   Pets must remain on leashes at all times and are not allowed in the
playground areas.
      (2)   Pet waste is the responsibility of the owners and must be properly
disposed of immediately.
      (3)   No pet shall be permitted to cause damage to the park.
      (4)   No person in or adjacent to a park shall abandon any animal.
      (5)   No large domestic or non-domestic pets or animals are permitted in
a town park with the exception of cats and dogs, unless authorized in writing
by the town, and then only after obtaining any permits required.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.24 PROTECTION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall hunt, capture, take, trap, or in any other way abuse,
molest, injure, pursue, or destroy an animal unless authorized to do so in
writing by the town, and then only after obtaining any permits required by the
town.
   (B)   No person shall move, injure, or destroy any bird nest or egg or any
animal habitation. No person shall disturb the wildlife and their natural
habitat.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.25 USE OF TOWN PARK FACILITIES.
   The town retains the right at all times to make individual decisions
regarding the use of town park facilities. All persons or groups desiring to
reserve space or facilities in a town park for their own use for special events
(such as, but not limited to, weddings, banquets, company outings, family
reunions, birthday parties, and similar celebrations) are required to have a
permit from the town. No permit is required for group picnics, unless the group
seeks to reserve specific park areas or facilities for its own use or intends
to provide its own facilities, not already present within the park, for food
preparation and service (such as tents, tables, chairs, central cooking
facilities, and servicing stations).
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.26 PRIORITY USE OF FACILITIES.
   Use of town park facilities for any organization are scheduled on a first
come, first serve basis with consideration given to the town and Pendleton
Recreation Association’s annual use and annual repeat permittee use first. Once
an application is approved and rental obligations are met, the date and
facility is considered secure.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.27 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   Nothing in these rules shall:
   (A)   Prohibit or hinder any town employee or agent or any law enforcement
officers from performing their official duties.
   (B)   Prohibit the Town from establishing emergency rules required to
protect the health, welfare and safety of park visitors; to protect property;
to maintain order.
(Ord. 80-07, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 4-2-12)
§ 93.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter to which no other specific
penalty applies shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.27 is a misdemeanor subject, upon conviction, to a fine not to exceed $500
or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 4-2-12)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Declaration of public nuisance
   
94.03   Parking or storage on private property prohibited
   
94.04   Vehicle exemptions
   
94.05   Vehicles subject to removal and disposal
   
94.06   Right of entry
   
94.07   Criminal or civil liability arising out of enforcement
   
94.08   Notice of removal from private property
   
94.09   Failure to remove
   
94.10   Enforcement
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
except where the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle in which the owner has relinquished
control, as provided by a combination of the following:
      (1) The vehicle is inoperative or is left unattended on public or private
property for a period of seven days or more;
      (2)   The vehicle is illegally located on private or public property for
a period of seven days;
      (3) Vehicle registration has expired and insurance coverage is not up to
date; and/or
      (4)   A vehicle whose major parts have been removed so as to render the
vehicle inoperable and incapable of passing a state inspection; and/or
      (5) Vehicles whose legal owner disclaims ownership or releases his or her
ownership rights thereto.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle that has been abandoned, wrecked or partially
dismantled and has no apparent value other than for scrap or parts.
   VEHICLE. A motorized device for transportation and includes, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, buggy and motorcycle.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.02 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Abandoned and junked motor vehicles constitute a hazard to the health
and welfare of individuals in that such vehicles can harbor diseases, provide
breeding places for vermin, present physical danger for children and other
citizens, create fire hazards, promote deterioration of the town, create
unsightly areas and tend to reduce the value of private property. Additionally,
such wrecked, junked, abandoned, partially dismantled, or inoperative motor
vehicle is in the nature of rubbish, litter and unsightly debris in violation
of health and sanitation laws.
   (B)   It is deemed to be in the public interest that the accumulation of
such vehicles be eliminated and that the future abandonment of the vehicles be
prevented. Therefore, it is declared that the abandonment, accumulation or
storage of such vehicles on pubic or private property constitutes a public
nuisance which may be abated as such, which remedy shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.03 PARKING OR STORAGE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park, store or leave or permit the parking, storage or
leaving on any motor vehicle which is in a rusted, wrecked, junked, partially
dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition upon any public or private
property within the town for a period in excess of seven days unless such
vehicle located on any private property is completely enclosed within a
building or unless such vehicle is stored or parked on private property in
connection with a duly licensed business or commercial enterprise operated and
conducted pursuant to law when such parking or storing of vehicles is necessary
to the operation of the business or commercial enterprise.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.04 VEHICLE EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to motor vehicles housed or
protected from the elements, those classified as antiques and registered as
such in accordance with state law, those exempted from registration or those
vehicles reported as stolen unless such vehicles present some safety or health
hazard or constitutes a nuisance.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.05 VEHICLES SUBJECT TO REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL.
   All abandoned and junk motor vehicles shall be subject to removal from
public or private property and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter; except that all abandoned vehicles left on any right-of-way of a
road, street or highway shall be disposed of as provided for by sate law, under
the supervision of code enforcement.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Authorized town personnel are vested with the power and are charged with the
duties of administering the provisions of this chapter and are hereby given
authority to enter upon private property for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions as stated in this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to
interfere with, hinder or refuse to allow any public official to enter upon
private property for the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.07 CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF ENFORCEMENT.
   No agent or employee of the town nor any person contracting for the removal
of or disposition of any abandoned or junk motor vehicle shall be held
criminally or civilly liable in any way arising out of enforcing any provisions
of this chapter unless such person is guilty of recklessness, neglect or
misconduct.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.08 NOTICE OF REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Whenever it shall appear that a violation of the provisions of this chapter
exists in reference to any vehicle situated on any private property, the town
shall give, or cause to be given, written notice to the registered owner of any
motor vehicle which is in violation of this chapter and shall give such notice
to the owner or person in lawful possession or control of the private property
upon which such motor vehicle is located, advising that such motor vehicle
violates the provisions of this chapter and directing that such motor vehicle
be moved to a place of lawful storage within 72 hours or housed within a
building. Such notice may be served upon the registered owner of the vehicle my
mail or addressed to the owner at the last known address of record with the
Department of Motor Vehicles. Such notice to the owner or person in lawful
possession or control of the property upon which such motor vehicle is located
shall be personally served upon such owner or person in possession. If such
owner or occupant cannot be found upon the property, then in lieu of personal
service upon the owner or occupant of the private property upon which the motor
vehicle is located, the vehicles shall be disposed of as provided for by state
law, under the supervision of code enforcement.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.09 FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to remove the abandoned, wrecked,
junked, partially dismantled or inoperative motor vehicle or to abate such
nuisance in accordance with the notice given shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and subject to prosecution in accordance with §
94.06.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
§ 94.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the registered owner or the owner or person in lawful possession or
control of private property upon which a motor vehicle described in §
94.09 is located shall fail or refuse to act in accordance with the notice
provided, the town may take necessary action to have the vehicle impounded to
be held until released, sold or otherwise disposed of pursuant to the
requirements of law for disposition of such vehicles. Impounded vehicles may be
held for 30 days awaiting ownership claim; however, no vehicle shall be
released under any circumstances, until all costs, charges and/or fines due to
the town are paid in full.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 8-6-07)
CHAPTER 95: PARADES, EVENTS, BLOCK PARTIES, PERFORMANCES AND FILMING
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Permit required
   
95.03   Application for permit
   
95.04   Notice of action on application
   
95.05   Approval of permit under alternative date, time, route or conditions
   
95.06   Denial and appeal of denial
   
95.07   Public conduct
   
95.08   Payment of costs of services and equipment provided by the town
   
95.09   Security
   
95.10   Road closures
   
95.11   Food, beverage, and litter control
   
95.12   Hours of operation
   
95.13   Discrimination
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning parking for special events, see §
70.02
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANDERSON COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE (ACSO). The agency that provides law
enforcement for the Town of Pendleton.
   BEER. An alcoholic beverage of consumption obtained by the fermentation of a
mash of various malted grains containing an amount of alcohol not exceeding 5%
alcohol content by volume.
   BLOCK PARTY. A private outdoor gathering of 15 or more people on a public
street, sidewalk, park or town property, and which may involve the closure of a
street. This may include games, rides, live or taped music and the distribution
of food and beverages.
   EVENT. Any festival, concert, bike or foot races, walks, or other announced
public gathering upon any public street, right-of-way or property of the town.
   FILMING. Any filming of movies, commercials, documentaries, and other motion
pictures, video projects, or commercial photographs.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, lecture, speech,
entertainment, pageant, or procession of any kind or any similar display,
demonstration, or conduct in or upon any public street, including sidewalk,
park or other public place, in the town.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by §
95.02.
   PERFORMANCE. Any public presentation, exhibition, fireworks display or
appearance upon any public street, right-of-way, or property of the town.
   PRIVATE ASSEMBLAGE. A private indoor or outdoor gathering of any number of
persons on public property or buildings which requires a town issued permit,
reservation or permission of use.
   SERVICE ANIMALS. Animals that are individually trained to perform tasks for
people with disabilities - such as guiding people who are blind, alerting
people who are deaf, pulling wheelchairs, alerting and protecting a person who
is having a seizure, or performing other special tasks. SERVICE ANIMALS are
working animals, not pets.
   TOWN OF PENDLETON (TOWN). A representative of the Town of Pendleton
represented by the Town Administrator or their designee to administer parade,
event, block party, performance and filming permits.
   UNIT. Any animal, vehicle, conveyance, or person participating in a parade.
   WINE. An alcoholic beverage of consumption made by the fermentation of the
juice of grapes, berries or other plants containing an amount of alcohol not
exceeding 21% alcohol content by volume.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person(s) or organization(s) is to engage, aid, form, start, host,
organize, plan, coordinate, operate an event, party, parade, performance or
filming on or requiring closure of town properties, streets, parks, rights-of-
way, or other public properties unless a permit is obtained from the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Funeral processions supervised by a licensed mortuary; and
      (2)   Any local, state or federal governmental agency acting in the scope
of its authorized functions.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person or organization seeking the issuance of a parade, event,
block party, performance or filming permit shall file an application with the
town. The Town Administrator may authorize a town official to enforce this
section. Upon receipt of the application, the town official shall notify the
appropriate staff members, who will make a recommendation to the town as
expeditiously as possible.
   (B)   An application and processing fee for any permit required by this
section shall be made to the designated town office 30 days before the date on
which the parade, event, block party, performance, or filming is to be
conducted. The town, where good cause is shown, shall have the authority to
consider any application which is filed less than 30 days before the date
sought. The application shall be signed by the applicant and shall include but
not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person or
organization seeking to conduct such parade, event, block party, performance or
filming;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
organization, and of the authorized and responsible head of the organization;
      (3)   The date when the proposed parade, event, block party, performance
or filming is to be conducted;
      (4)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point or the area sought to be used or closed off for the parade, event, block
party, performance or filming;
      (5)   The approximate number of persons, vendors, animals and vehicles
participating and the types of animals and a description of the vehicles;
      (6)   The time when the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming will start and terminate;
      (7)   The location, by streets, of any assembly area and the time of such
assembly for parades;
      (8)   Provisions for sanitation facilities, crowd, noise, traffic control
and parking;
      (9)   A description of food and beverages to be sold or distributed;
      (10)   The individuals or entity that will benefit, if revenue is
anticipated to be generated by the activity;
      (11)   Interval of space to be maintained between units of a parade; and
      (12)   Any additional information which a town official shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
   (C)   The town shall issue a permit for a proposed parade, event, block
party, performance or filming unless it finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming will substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other
traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming will require the diversion of so great number of police officers of the
town to properly police the line of movement and of contiguous areas that
adequate police protection can not be provided to the remainder of the town;
      (3)   The concentration of persons, animals, equipment or vehicles at
assembly points or other areas will substantially ambulance service to, areas
near such areas, or will hinder the movement of firefighting equipment;
      (4)   The conduct of the parade, event, block party, performance or
filming is reasonably likely to result in violence to persons or property,
causing serious harm to the public;
      (5)   The route has been requested recurring in the past year and is too
disruptive to residents or business; or
      (6)   Any proposed use of public property, right-of-way, or facilities
will interfere with the normal use of the property, right-of-way or facility by
the town or the general public.
   (D)   The town may require proof of public liability insurance in an amount
equal to the town’s liability under the Government Tort Claims Act of the state
and require the execution of a hold harmless agreement to indemnify the town if
the event is held liable for any injuries or damage as a result of the event.
   (E)   The persons or organization shall be in compliance with all other
applicable federal, state, local statutes, ordinances, licenses permits, rules
or regulations.
   (F)   The persons or organizations shall also comply with all directives and
instructions in verbal or written form from the town administration, police,
fire and public works personnel.
   (G)   All tent and other temporary structures to be erected on the Village
Green, shall be erected and removed on the day of the event unless prior
arrangements have been approved by the town administrator. No vehicles are
allowed on the Village Green.
   (H)   Animals, such as, cats, dogs, and the like, that are not service
animals are not allowed on the Village Green during events.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.04 NOTICE OF ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The town shall act upon the application for a permit required by this
article as expeditiously as possible, notifying the applicant by mail of the
decision. If the application is disapproved, the reasons therefore shall be set
forth in writing.
   (B)   The town shall forward copies to the Town Administrator and each
department head informing them of the review of the application and any
provisions that need to be addressed by the applicant and included in the
permit.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.05 APPROVAL OF PERMIT UNDER ALTERNATIVE DATE, TIME, ROUTE OR CONDITIONS.
   The town, in denying an application for a permit under this chapter, shall
be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade, event, block party,
performance or filming date at a time or over a route and under different
conditions from that requested by the applicant.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.06 DENIAL AND APPEAL OF DENIAL.
   Any person or organization aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the
denial of a parade permit required by this chapter to the Town Administrator
and if necessary to the Town Council. The appeal shall be taken within two days
after notice in written form to the town administrator’s office. The Town
Council shall consider the appeal at the first regular council meeting
following the appeal.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.07 PUBLIC CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere
with any parade, event, performance or filming or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in the event.
   (B)   No driver of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as parade, nor shall any driver drive around or through any event or
properly designated or barricaded area.
   (C)   No driver or passenger of any vehicle shall throw food, candy or any
item from vehicles participating in any parade.
   (D)   Anderson County Sheriff’s Office shall have the authority to prohibit
or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or area properly designated
or posted for a parade, event, performance or filming and it shall be unlawful
for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
   (E)   No glass bottle containers may be sold or distributed on the public
right-of-way and no patron may carry a glass bottle container on the public
right- of-way during a parade, event, performance or filming. It shall be
unlawful for any vendor to sell beverages in glass containers for off-premises
consumption at parades or events.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   The Town Administrator may impose reasonable fees and requirements
upon the applicant as necessary to cover the costs of public services and
equipment provided by the town for the event.
   (B)   A bond may be required to cover the cost of labor and equipment if the
event fails to take place without cancellation of 24 hours notice. Forfeiture
of the bond will not apply if inclement weather, disaster or other unforeseen
event not in the permittee’s control.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.09 SECURITY.
   The applicant must provide adequate security for the event as directed by
Anderson County Sheriff’s Office. The applicant may be required to hire
approved security enforcement officers to provide security and insure public
safety.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.10 ROAD CLOSURES.
   (A)   Blocking of all, or a portion of a street, will require a traffic
control plan approved by ACSO. The applicant will be responsible for placing
and removing barricades, unless prior arrangements have been made with ACSO or
public works department.
   (B)   If blocking a street is necessary, the applicant must provide
notification to all adjacent businesses and residents of the date and time of
the event with a detail description of the roads to be closed no more than ten
days and no less than 5 days before the event.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.11 FOOD, BEVERAGE, AND LITTER CONTROL.
   (A)   No glass containers will be permitted on town property or streets.
Beverages must be served in paper or plastic containers.
   (B)   Procedures and logistics for serving alcoholic beverages must be
submitted with the permit application. Procedures and logistics shall include
but are not limited to: location, hours of operation, locations with site
diagram, security procedures (volunteer uniform staffing, I.D. checking and
dispensing operations), enclosure requirements, parking locations for beer
trucks, and the like. The service of and consumption of alcoholic beverages
must comply with all South Carolina Alcohol Beverage Control Commission
regulations. The town reserves the right to revoke the permit or require the of
alcohol by participants becomes excessive or when over a period of time
participants regularly demonstrate obnoxious, loud, abusive or other
inappropriate behavior following events.
      (1)   Permits allowing the use or consumption of “alcoholic liquors” may
not be considered for any public property. Permits may be considered for the
use and consumption of “beer” and/or “wine” only.
      (2)   Permits allowing use of alcohol or alcohol consumption may not be
considered for public properties other than the Village Green.
      (3)   Applicant must post signs stating that alcohol beverages are
prohibited beyond the approved permitted area and that underage drinking is
prohibited. Signs must be posted adequately designating the approved permitted
area.
      (4)   All participants consuming alcohol must wear a designating item to
identify that they are of legal drinking age.
      (5)   All alcohol use must end 30 minutes before the permittee’s ABC
license expires or the conclusion of the event, whichever comes first.
      (6)   The maximum time period for serving beer and/or wine is four hours
per day per event.
   (C)   Arrangements must be made with the Public Works Department by the
permittee for trash containers and procedures to clean the streets. Clean- up
must begin immediately at the conclusion of the event.
   (D)   Vendors must obtain the appropriate licensees and permits from the
town, DHEC and any other appropriate department and observe all regulations.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation shall not begin before 10:00 a.m. nor extend beyond 10:00
p.m. The maximum time period for serving beer and/or wine is four hours per day
per event. The Town Administrator may approve adjustments to operating hours
based upon individual circumstances.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.13 DISCRIMINATION.
   Events held on town property must not discriminate on the basis of race,
religion, color, national origin, sex, disability or age.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter, which are determined by the Town Administrator
or his or her designee, to constitute a public health and safety hazard, shall
be grounds for revocation of the event permit. Upon such revocation, all
activities associated with the event shall be immediately terminated.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 6-2-08)
CHAPTER 96: TOBACCO CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Findings and determinations
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Use of tobacco products prohibited in all enclosed town-owned buildings
   
96.04   Use of tobacco products prohibited in town-owned vehicles
   
96.05   Smoking in public places
   
96.06   Prohibition of smoking in certain outdoor areas
   
96.07   Reasonable distance of entry and outdoor area
   
96.08   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed places
   
96.09   Prohibition of smoking regulations in places of employment
   
96.10   Responsibilities of proprietors, owners, and managers
   
96.11   Where smoking is not regulated
   
96.12   Nonretaliation; nonwaiver of rights
   
96.13   Enforcement
   
96.14   Other applicable laws
   
96.15   Interpretation for intent
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   The Town Council (the “Council”) hereby finds and determines:
   (A)   The town is an incorporated municipality and as such possesses all
powers granted to municipalities by the constitution and the laws of the state,
including the powers enumerated in S.C. Code § 5-7-30 relating to regulating
streets, markets, and public health.
   (B)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major contributor
to indoor air pollution, and that breathing secondhand smoke (also known as
environmental tobacco smoke) is a cause of disease in healthy nonsmokers,
including heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease, and lung cancer. The
National Cancer Institute has determined that secondhand smoke is responsible
for the early deaths of up to 65,000 Americans annually. (National Cancer
Institute (NCI), “Health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke:
the report of the California Environmental Protection Agency. Smoking and
Tobacco Control Monograph 10,” Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health,
National Cancer Institute (NCI), August 1999.) The Surgeon General has declared
that:
      (1)   Secondhand smoke causes disease and premature death in nonsmokers
exposed to smoke;
      (2)   Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk for
sudden death syndrome, acute respiratory infections, ear problems, and more
severe asthma;
      (3)   Adults exposed to secondhand smoke have a higher risk of coronary
heart disease and lung cancer;
      (4)   There is no safe level of exposure to secondhand smoke; and
      (5)   Separating smoking and non-smoking sections of indoor areas does
not sufficiently remove the threats of secondhand smoke in enclosed areas.
   (C)   A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the
workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled businesses suffer a 25-50% higher
risk of heart attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular disease and
cancer, as well as increased acute respiratory disease and measurable decrease
in lung function. (Pitsavos, C.; Panagiotakos, D. B.; Chrysohoou, C; Skoumas,
J.; Tzioumis, K.; Stefanadis, C; Toutouzas, P., “Association between exposure
to environmental tobacco smoke and the development of acute coronary syndromes:
the CARD102000 case-control study,” Tobacco Control ((3): 220-225, September
2002.)
   (D)   Certain outdoor events, such as parades, festivals, and other public
gatherings, which result in nonsmokers finding themselves in close proximity to
persons who are smoking, can reasonably be seen to have the same effects of
exposure as when nonsmokers are exposed to smoke in enclosed space. Lighted
cigarettes, cigars, and pipes of people standing or sitting in close proximity
have the potential of burning those with whom they inadvertently come into
direct contact and making the air quality and peaceful enjoyment of outdoor
events unreasonably restricted for nonsmokers. When there is a presence of
secondhand smoke in enclosed spaces or in outside areas where there is a public
gathering resulting in people being in close proximity in places that are
otherwise open to the public at large inevitably results in persons who do not
smoke being forced to bear unwarranted health risks and inappropriate
deprivation of peaceful enjoyment of the premises to which they have been
invited or permitted to enter, even when steps have been taken to separate
“smoking” and “nonsmoking” areas within the confined space.
   (E)   The town recognizes that smoke creates a danger to the health and
safety of the public at large and that, in order to protect the health and
welfare of the public, it is necessary to restrict smoking in the manner
provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTORNEY. The Town Attorney or his/her designee.
   ACSO. Anderson County Sheriff's Office representative or authorized
designee.
   BONA FIDE. Made in good faith without fraud or deceit.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs services for an employer, with or without
compensation.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, trust, or other
organized group of individuals or entity, whether public or private, which
utilizes the services of one or more employees.
   ENCLOSED AREA. A space in any structure or building that is bound on all
sides by any combination of walls, half walls, windows, or doorways extending
from floor to the ceiling, regardless of whether the windows or doors are open
or closed.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of an employer
which employees normally frequent during the course of employment, including
but not limited to common work areas, employee lounges and restrooms,
conference and classrooms, employee cafeterias, and hallways and stairways and
other common areas of a building or structure.
   PRIVATE CLUB or LODGE.  A bona fide organization, whether incorporated or
not, which is the occupant of a building or a portion of a building that has a
different address, a separate entrance, and not connected by common doors or
passageways with any other business within the building and which is used
solely and exclusively for social, benevolent, patriotic, recreational, or
fraternal purposes and not monetary gain or profit, and no part of the net
earnings of which insures to the direct benefit of any member or shareholder,
and if engaged in the sale of beer, wine, porter, ale, or alcoholic beverages,
such as incidental to its main purpose, and which maintains on the premises a
complete membership list showing the date of application of the proposed
member, the date of admission after election, the date initiation fees and dues
are paid, the amount paid by each member, and each member's correct mailing
address. No organization shall qualify as a PRIVATE CLUB or LODGE under this
section if it admits members on demand by payment of a nominal fee.
   PRIVATE OFFICE. An independent work space or area with separate ventilation,
that is separated from the remainder of a place of employment by walls and a
door, from floor to ceiling and which is not immediately accessible to the
general public or employees not assigned to work therein and restricted to a
single person. Cubicle work spaces do not constitute a private office.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted to convene, conduct business, or recreate, including
but not limited to banks, educational facilities, health facilities,
laundromats, public transportation facilities, recreational facilities,
restaurants, establishments engaged in the sale or distribution of beer, wine,
ale, porter, or alcoholic beverages for on-premise consumption, reception
areas, production and marketing establishments, retail service establishments,
retail stores, theaters, waiting rooms and service lines.
   SERVICE LINE. Any indoor or outdoor line at which one or more persons are
waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not such service
involves the exchange of money.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or other tobacco product in any manner or in any form.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
§ 96.03 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS PROHIBITED IN ALL ENCLOSED TOWN- OWNED
BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any tobacco product,
including a lit cigarette, cigar, pipe, or other lighted smoking material or
equipment, chewing tobacco, “dip,” or snuff in any enclosed town-owned
building. “No Smoking” signs shall be conspicuously displayed near all
entrances to all enclosed town-owned or occupied buildings.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, ENCLOSED means a structure or building
that is bound on all sides by any combination of walls, half walls, windows, or
doorways which extend from floor to ceiling, regardless of whether the windows
or doorways are open or closed.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS PROHIBITED IN TOWN-OWNED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any tobacco product, including a
lit cigarette, cigar pipe, or other lighted smoking material or equipment,
chewing tobacco, “dip,” or snuff in a town-owned or leased vehicle.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Harmful effects from exposure to exhaled smoke and smoke from the end of a
burning cigarette, cigar, or pipe, commonly referred to as secondhand smoke,
being well documented, it is in the interest of the health, safety, and welfare
of the general public that exposure to secondhand smoke be minimized in indoor
places where it is usual and customary for members of the general public to
convene to work, conduct business, or recreate. It is the purpose of this
section to foster and promote public health by decreasing citizens’ exposure to
secondhand smoke by regulating smoking in enclosed places normally accessible
to the public at large and in enclosed places normally accessible to and
utilized by employees.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
§ 96.06 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN CERTAIN OUTDOOR AREAS.
   (A)   Smoking shall also be prohibited in certain outdoor areas when the use
involves a gathering of the public, regardless of the number actually assembled
for the event, performance, or competition.
   (B)   This prohibition shall apply to:
      (1)   Amphitheaters.
      (2)   Ball parks and stadiums when in use for athletic competitions or
performances.
      (3)   Parades and special events on public streets and town property,
although the town has the discretion, but not the obligation, to establish
designated smoking areas in or in proximity to the parade or event area.
      (4)   Dining areas in encroachment areas on public sidewalks, plazas, and
parks and dining areas on decks, balconies, and patios of restaurants and bars.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 REASONABLE DISTANCE OF ENTRY AND OUTDOOR AREA.
   Smoking is prohibited within a distance of five feet from any entry into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited, so as to insure that tobacco smoke
does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or
other means. Smoking is also prohibited within five feet of the boundary of the
outdoor areas where smoking is prohibited. Persons who have begun smoking prior
to approaching the five foot distance may continue doing so, provided they do
not stop, stand, sit, or linger within the five foot distance.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PLACES.
   (A)   Except within a Private Office, the possession of lighted smoking
materials in any form, including but not limited to the possession of lighted
cigarettes, cigars, pipes or other tobacco products, is prohibited in all
enclosed areas of places of employment within the Town.
   (B)   The possession of lighted smoking materials in any form, including but
not limited to the possession of lighted cigarettes, cigars, pipes, or other
tobacco products, shall be prohibited in all public places within the town.
   (C)   No person shall possess lighted smoking materials in any form,
including but not limited to lighted cigarettes, cigars, pipes, or other
tobacco products, at an entrance to or exit from a building where smoking is
prohibited pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING REGULATIONS IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   The prohibition on smoking as set forth in §
96.08(A) shall be communicated by employers to all existing employees by the
effective date of this chapter and to all prospective employees upon their
application for employment.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPRIETORS, OWNERS, AND MANAGERS.
   (A)   A person having control of a place of employment or public place shall
not knowingly permit, cause, suffer, or allow any person to violate the
provisions of §
96.08, provided that it shall be an affirmative defense to an alleged violation
of this division (A) that the person having control of the place of employment
or public place has asked that the lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or other
tobacco product be extinguished and asked the person to leave the place of
employment or public place if that person has failed or refused to extinguish
the lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or other tobacco products.
   (B)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of
that place.
   (C)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited. A PDF copy of this sign is available for
download and printing from the town's website at www.townofpendleton.org; the
sign available online prints out to 8-1/2 × 11 and meets the minimum
requirements. (Minimum size for display is 5 × 5.)
   (D)   All ashtrays for public use shall be removed from any area where
smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other
person having control of the area.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide a smoke-free
workplace for all employees in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following shall not be subject to the smoking restrictions of this chapter:
   (A)   Private residences: (any location that has a business license shall
not be considered a private residence for purposes of the smoking regulation
and shall be subject to the prohibition in all areas where business is being
conducted).
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms and bed and breakfast rooms that are rented to
guests and are designated as smoking rooms, provided, however, that not more
than 25% of rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel or bed and breakfast may
be so designated. All smoking rooms on the same floor must be contiguous, and
smoke from those rooms must not infiltrate into areas where smoking is
prohibited under the provisions of this chapter. The status of smoking rooms
may not be changed, except to add additional nonsmoking rooms.
   (C)   Establishments where more than 50% of the revenue, volume of trade, or
business activity is derived from the blending of tobaccos, or sale of
tobaccos, pipes, cigars, or smoker's sundries, provided that smoking areas in
these establishments are enclosed and smoke does not infiltrate into areas
where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Religious ceremonies where smoking is part of a ritual.
   (E)   Private club or lodge operating within a building or portion of a
building owned or leased by the club.
   (F)   Any location where smoking is regulated under S.C. Code §§ 44-95-10 et
seq., as amended, the Clean indoor Air Act, to include:
      (1)   Public schools and preschools where routine or regular
kindergarten, elementary, or secondary educational classes are held, including
libraries, but excluding private offices and teacher lounges which are not
adjacent of classrooms or libraries, unless smoking is prohibited in private
offices or teacher lounges by directive of the local school board or a smoke-
free campus mandated by a district board of trustees;
      (2)   All other indoor facilities providing children's services to the
extent that smoking is prohibited in the facility by federal law and all other
child day care facilities, as defined in S.C. Code, § 20-7-2700, which are
licensed pursuant to Subarticle 11, Article 13, Chapter 7 of Title 20, as
amended. Title 20, Ch. 7, Art. 13, Subart. 11
      (3)   Health care facilities as defined in S.C. Code § 44-7-130, as
amended, but excluding designated smoking areas in employee break areas, unless
the governing body of the facility has determined to maintain a smoke free
environment.
      (4)   Government buildings, as defined in S.C. Code § 44-95-20(4), except
health care facilities as provided for in subdivision (F)(3) hereof, and except
for buildings owned or occupied by the town.
      (5)   Elevators;
      (6)   Public transportation vehicles that are not owned or operated by
the town, excluding taxicabs;
      (7)   Arenas and auditoriums of public theaters or public performing art
centers, excluding areas that may be designated for smoking in foyers, lobbies,
or other common areas and excluding smoking as part of a legitimate theatrical
performance.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
§ 96.12 NONRETALIATION; NONWAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer
because that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by
this chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the county sheriff's office or an
authorized designee.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
business license applicants in the town.
   (C)   The building codes officer, fire marshall, or their designees shall,
while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated or voluntary
inspections, inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   The owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment
regulated by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the
appropriate provisions thereof.
   (E)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the Mayor's office.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
§ 96.14 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
§ 96.15 INTERPRETATION FOR INTENT.
   It is the intent of Council to prohibit smoking whenever the private choice
of smoking intrudes or has the capacity to intrude upon the choice of others to
be free from the hazards and inconvenience of secondhand smoke in places where
they work, stand, sit, dine, drink, read, study, or engage in entertainment and
recreation in enclosed public places or places of employment. All provisions of
this chapter shall be construed to achieve these purposes.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First and subsequent offenses.
      (1)   First offense: $75.
      (2)   Second offense: $150.
      (3)   Third offense: up to $500.
   (B)   Types of violation. Violators of this chapter include:
      (1)   Any person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of the chapter.
      (2)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a
public place or place of employment who fails to adhere to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   In addition to the fines established by this section, four or more
violations of this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates, or
otherwise controls a public place or place of employment may result in the
suspension or revocation of any business license issued to the person for the
premises on which the violation occurred.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the town by restraining order, preliminary and permanent
injunction, or other means provided for by law, and the town may take action to
recover the costs of the nuisance abatement.
   (E)   Each occurrence of a continuing violation of this chapter shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense/violation.
(Ord. 11-11, passed 11-7-11)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Permits
   
97.01   Generally
   
97.02   Encroachment permits
   
97.03   Miscellaneous
   
97.04   Public utility blanket permits
   
97.05   Permit fee schedule
 
   
97.99   Penalty
PERMITS
§ 97.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any utility, business, entity, or individual
to excavate within, encroach upon, or in any other way alter a town-maintained
road right-of-way, except in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Any utility, business, entity, or individual desiring to excavate
within, encroach upon, or in any other way, alter a town-maintained road right-
of-way shall notify the town's Public Works Director of the proposed activity
by submitting an application for an encroachment permit ("permit"). A permit
ensures that all activities will be performed in accordance with applicable
design and construction standards, that anyone working within the town-
maintained road right-of-way has sufficient insurance necessary to safeguard
the public interest, that facilities will be appropriately located within the
right-of-way to prevent obstruction of and damage to existing facilities, and
that any activity will be performed in accordance with applicable federal,
state, and local law.
   (C)   A copy of a permit shall be maintained by the applicant and kept at
the worksite at all times during the permitted activity, except for annual
blanket permit holders, which are only required to notify the town's Department
of Public Works of work recently performed. Failure to obtain a permit or
failure to comply with the terms of a permit constitutes a violation and shall
be punishable in accordance with the penalty section of this subchapter.
   (D)   If a bond is required, a surety bond, cash bond, or irrevocable letter
of credit from an accredited lending institution must be posted before issuance
of the permit. It will be held for a period of 18 months after all repairs or
excavations have been completed. The cash/bond is refundable after 18 months
upon a final inspection to ensure work is completed to the satisfaction of the
town.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 8-2-21)
§ 97.02 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits must be obtained at least 48 hours prior to initiating any
activity within the town-maintained road right-of-way. Permit applications and
a schedule of required fees and security, as amended periodically by the Town
Council, shall be available for review upon request from the Pendleton Town
Hall, located at 310 Greenville Street, Pendleton, SC 29670, or on the internet
at www.townofpendleton.org.
   (B)   The applicant should be familiar with the proposed activity within the
town-maintained road right-of-way or secure the assistance of a qualified
contractor to represent the applicant and should be prepared to discuss the
proposed activity with the Public Works Department at the time of application.
The applicant shall be required to submit a sketch or drawing with each permit
application. Depending upon the complexity of the proposed activity, three sets
of detailed engineering plans may be required to provide sufficient information
regarding the horizontal and vertical placement of the proposed facilities,
such as the area of placement, proximity to existing facilities, safety
measures needed to safeguard the public, and methods of protection of public
and private facilities from damage during and after construction.
   (C)   Except as noted below, licensed and bonded contractors or utility
companies shall be required to perform all activities within the town-
maintained road right-of-way. The issuance of permits to individuals shall be
restricted to situations where the nature of the encroachment is such that a
licensed and bonded contractor is not required to ensure and protect the
integrity of the roadway and the safety of the public. However, permits shall
not be issued to individuals if the proposed activity requires compaction of
fill, erosion protection measures, or other activities that would place at risk
the integrity and stability of the town-maintained road right-of-way.
   (D)   A contractor or utility company acting as an agent for an applicant
may secure a permit. However, by signing the application, the agent and the
applicant accept all responsibility for all activity associated with the
permit.
   (E)   Permits shall be valid for a period of time not to exceed 90 days from
the date of issuance unless pre-approved for a more extended period of time by
the Public Works Department. A permit may be extended for an additional period
of time as determined by the Public Works Department. Applicants or their
agents working under an expired permit shall be subject to the same penalties
as an individual or entity working without or failing to comply with the terms
of a permit.
   (F)   The applicant, or any agent or employee of the applicant, shall obtain
all necessary information related to the existence and location of all existing
surface and underground facilities. To the fullest extent of the law, the
applicant shall hold harmless and indemnify the town, its successors and
assigns, officers, Council members, agents and employees from and against any
and all claims, losses, expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees),
demands or judgments which result from or arise out of damage to other
facilities and/or adjacent private property while working in the town-
maintained road right-of-way.
   (G)   Upon completion of the permitted activity, the applicant shall restore
the town-maintained road right-of-way to its original condition, ensuring that
all repairs conform to the requirements contained in the current edition of the
SCDOT Standard Specifications for Highway Construction Manual. Eighteen (18)
months after completion of the permitted activity, security funds held by the
town, if any, shall be returned to the applicant, provided the Public Works
Director, upon final inspection, approves the repair. If the Public Works
Director deems the repair to be unacceptable, the Public Works Director shall
notify the applicant of the unacceptable nature of the repair and provide the
applicant 30 days to correct such deficiency before permanently retaining the
security to properly repair and restore the town-maintained road right-of-way
to its original condition. Once the town-maintained road right-of-way has been
adequately repaired, excess security funds held by the town, if any, shall be
returned to the applicant. The Public Works Department reserves the right to
correct or have problems corrected and charge all associated costs (including
but not limited to labor, materials, equipment, supervisory, and
administrative) to the applicant or its security deposit.
   (H)   The Public Works Department may refuse to issue a permit if any monies
are due and outstanding from the applicant or for inadequate past performance
on the part of that applicant.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 8-2-21)
§ 97.03 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   All permitted activity in the town-maintained road right-of-way shall
be performed in accordance with appropriate federal, state, and local
standards.
   (B)   All permitted activity shall be performed to the satisfaction of the
Public Works Director or designee. Permits may not be issued or shall be
revoked for activity that is not performed in accordance with sound engineering
and construction principles or otherwise in compliance with law.
   (C)   Except in emergency circumstances, all activity in the public right-
of-way shall be performed during daylight hours, sunrise to sunset, unless
otherwise specified in the permit.
   (D)   Except in the event of an emergency, the Public Works Department shall
be notified at least three business days in advance of the start of the
activity. Should the Public Works Director find work in progress before
notification by the applicant and/or permit not on-site during construction,
work will be stopped until all permit requirements have been met.
   (E)   As required by law, the applicant must contact the Palmetto Utility
Protection Service (P.U.P.S.) at 1-888-721-7877 at least three business days
before any type of excavation activity commences. The P.U.P.S. number must be
noted on the permit.
   (F)   All activities within the town-maintained road right-of-way shall be
conducted in a manner that causes minimal inconvenience to adjacent property
owners and the traveling public. Reasonable access to driveways, houses, and
buildings adjacent to the site shall be maintained at all times unless
previously arranged in writing with the affected party. Any temporary
approaches to crossings or intersecting highways shall be pre-approved by the
Public Works Department and kept in good condition. All business establishments
or homes within 300 feet of the site shall be notified at least 24 hours in
advance of any activity and shall have access during construction at all times.
Any trees, shrubbery, or landscaping damaged by the applicant during the
activity shall be replaced as directed by the Public Works Director if owned by
the town or the owner if on private property.
   (G)   No debris spoils or stockpiling of materials shall be allowed unless
specifically authorized in a permit. Under no circumstances shall material
stockpiles be left in the street or on shoulders of the town-maintained road
right-of-way overnight
   (H)   Excavations shall be limited to 1,000 linear feet of open trench
before backfill operations must begin. If any excavation cannot be backfilled
immediately, the applicant shall securely and adequately cover the excavation
and maintain proper barricades and lights as required, from the time of the
opening of the excavation until the excavation is surfaced and opened for
travel. The Public Works Director or designee shall determine the suitability
of excavation barricading in each circumstance.
   (I)   All concrete forms shall be inspected by the Public Works Director 24
hours prior to pouring.
   (J)   Traffic controls within any permit site shall conform to the Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), latest edition.
   (K)   If it should ever become necessary to move or relocate a facility, or
any part thereof, on account of change in location of the roadway, widening of
the roadway, or for any other sufficient reason, such moving or relocation
shall be done on demand of the Public Works Department at the sole expense of
the owner of the facility. If and when the facility contemplated herein shall
be moved or relocated, either on the demand of the Public Works Department or
at the option of the owner, all work in connection with the construction,
maintenance, moving or relocation of the facility contemplated herein shall be
done by and at the expense of the owner, and the roadway and facilities shall
be restored to their original condition at the expense of the owner.
   (L)   If significant damage to the asphalt surface of a town-maintained
public road occurs or is anticipated to occur as a result of a permitted
activity, the Public Works Director has the right, as a condition of the
permit, to require the applicant to resurface (not spot repair) the entire
affected road surface within or adjacent to the permitted site. A separate bond
in the amount of 125% of the contract cost of resurfacing shall be posted prior
to construction.
   (M)   In the event of an emergency, an individual or entity may act without
a permit but shall notify the Public Works Director within 24 hours of the
emergency response, or as soon after that is reasonably practicable. The
individual or entity shall then obtain a permit from the Public Works
Department within 48 hours of the emergency response or may be subject to a
civil penalty not to exceed $500. Failure to comply with and honor a civil
penalty shall constitute a violation of this subchapter, and such violation
shall be punishable in accordance with §
97.99.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 8-2-21)
§ 97.04 PUBLIC UTILITY BLANKET PERMITS.
   (A)   Public utility companies may apply for an annual blanket permit with
the Public Works Department, allowing an unlimited number of permits for all
activities that do not disturb the asphalt surface of a town-maintained public
road. However, public utility companies shall provide the Public Works
Department a weekly report detailing activities performed, such as the location
of the activity and the type of work performed. Plans are not required for
routine maintenance and service connections.
   (B)   Public utility companies that do not desire to apply for an annual
blanket permit shall apply for a separate permit for each activity within a
town-maintained road right-of-way together with applicable fees and/or
security.
   (C)   Regardless of whether a utility company has obtained an annual blanket
permit, separate permits are required for new or replacement line
installations, new or relocated service poles, and any activity disturbing the
asphalt surface of a town-maintained public road.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 8-2-21)
§ 97.05 PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following permit fees shall apply to this subchapter:
 
Type                     Amount
General permit fee       $25
Permit extension fee     $10
Reinspection fee         $25
Pavement cut             $100 permit fee + $5/sf of pavement cut
Longitudinal work in R/W General permit fee + $0.05/linear foot
 
   (B)   Bonds required.
      (1)
 
Type                     Amount
Utility blanket permit   Waived for utilities in good standing
Pavement cut             Pavement cut permit fee x 10
Longitudinal work in R/W Longitudinal work permit fee x 50
 
      (2)   Bonds may be in the form of a surety bond, cash bond, or
irrevocable letter of credit.
      (3)   If the calculated bond exceeds the $5,000 continuous bond posted by
a utility company under the utility blanket permit requirement, a separate bond
in the overage amount must be posted.
      (4)   The bond will be waived for an adjacent homeowner who is doing less
than 100 lineal feet of work or at the Public Works Director's discretion.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 8-2-21)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a penalty of $100 and for any costs incurred by the
town relative to any violation. After written notification of a violation is
provided, each day the violation is not remedied shall constitute a separate
violation. Upon issuance of a violation notice, all activity at the worksite
must immediately stop until the penalty has been paid in full, and a permit has
been issued, or the applicant complies with the terms of the existing permit.
(Ord. 21-07, passed 8-2-21)
CHAPTER 98: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
98.01   Policy
§ 98.01 POLICY.
   (A)   Discrimination in the sale, rental, leasing, or financing of housing
or land to be used for construction of housing, or in the provision of
brokerage services, because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
disability, or national origin is prohibited by Title VIII of the 1968 Civil
Rights Act
(Federal Fair Housing Law, 42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.).
   (B)   It is the policy of the town to implement programs to ensure equal
opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color, religion,
sex, familial status, disability, or national origin. The Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.) expands coverage to include
disabled persons and families with children.
   (C)   Therefore, the town does hereby pass the following:
      (1)   Within available resources, the town will assist all persons who
feel they have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, disability, or familial status to seek equity under
federal and state laws by filing a complaint with the South Carolina Human
Affairs Commission.
      (2)   The town shall publicize this chapter and through this publicity
shall encourage owners of real estate, developers, and builders to become aware
of their respective responsibilities and rights under the federal and state
fair housing law and amendments and any applicable state or local laws or
ordinances.
      (3)   Said program will at a minimum include:
         (a)   The printing and publicizing of this policy and other applicable
fair housing information through local media and community contacts; and
         (b)   Distribution of posters and flyers and any other means that will
bring to the attention of those affected the knowledge of their respective
responsibilities and rights concerning equal opportunity in housing.
(Ord. 24-12, passed 10-1-24)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   GARAGE SALES
      
113.   JUNKYARDS AND OPEN STORAGE
      
114.   FRANCHISE USE OF STREETS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Purpose and duration
   
110.04   Business license tax; refund
   
110.05   Registration required
   
110.06   Deductions, exemptions, and charitable organizations
   
110.07   False application unlawful
   
110.08   Display and transfer
   
110.09   Administration of chapter
   
110.10   Inspection and audits
   
110.11   Assessments; payment under protest; appeal
   
110.12   Delinquent license taxes; partial payment
   
110.13   Notices
   
110.14   Denial of license
   
110.15   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.16   Appeals to Council or its designee
   
110.17   Consent, franchise, or license required for use of streets
   
110.18   Confidentiality
   
110.19   Severability
   
110.20   Classification and rates
 
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A   Business license rate schedule
   
Appendix B   Business license class schedule by NAICS code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any business, calling,
occupation, profession, or activity with the object of gain, benefit, or
advantage, in whole or in part within the limits of the Town of Pendleton,
South Carolina, is required to pay an annual license tax for the privilege of
doing business and obtain a business license as herein provided.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business, calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged
in with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or
indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)
(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose that does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer, officer,
director, trustee, or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. That division of businesses by NAICS codes subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Pendleton.
   DOMICILE. A principal place from which the trade or business of a licensee
is conducted, directed, or managed. For purposes of this chapter, a licensee
may be deemed to have more than one domicile.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality. If the licensee has a domicile within
the municipality, business done within the municipality shall include all gross
receipts or revenue received or accrued by such licensee. If the licensee does
not have a domicile within the municipality, business done within the
municipality shall include only gross receipts or revenue received or accrued
within the municipality. In all cases, if the licensee pays a business license
tax to another county or municipality, then the licensee's gross income for the
purpose of computing the tax within the municipality must be reduced by the
amount of revenues or receipts taxed in the other county or municipality and
fully reported to the municipality. GROSS INCOME for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds, or funds that are the property of a third party. The value of bartered
goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in gross income. The gross
receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by
inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the
South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina Department of
Insurance, or other government agencies. In calculating gross income for
certain businesses, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Gross income for agents shall be calculated on gross commissions
received or retained, unless otherwise specified. If commissions are divided
with other brokers or agents, then only the amount retained by the broker or
agent is considered gross income.
      (2)   Except as specifically required by S.C. Code § 38-7-20, gross
income for insurance companies shall be calculated on gross premiums written.
      (3)   Gross income for manufacturers of goods or materials with a
location in the municipality shall be calculated on the lesser of (a) gross
revenues or receipts received or accrued from business done at the location;
(b) the amount of income allocated and apportioned to that location by the
business for purposes of the business's state income tax return; or (c) the
amount of expenses attributable to the location as a cost center of the
business. Licensees reporting gross income under this provision shall have the
burden to establish the amount and method of calculation by satisfactory
records and proof. Manufacturers include those taxpayers reporting a
manufacturing principal business activity code on their federal income tax
returns.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this chapter.
Notwithstanding the designation of a primary License Official, the municipality
may designate one or more alternate License Officials to administer particular
types of business licenses, including without limitation for business licenses
issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under S.C. Code Title
58, Ch. 9, Art. 20 and Title 38, Chs. 7 and 45.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Pendleton, South Carolina.
   NAICS. The North American Industry Classification System for the United
States published under the auspices of the federal Office of Management and
Budget.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company, cooperative non-profit membership, corporation,
joint venture, association, estate, trust, business trust,  receiver,
syndicate, holding company, or other group or combination acting as a unit, in
the singular or plural, and the agent or employee having charge or control of a
business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license required by this chapter is for the purpose of
providing such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto
and for the purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege
tax. Except as set forth below for business licenses issued to contractors with
respect to specific construction projects, each yearly license shall be issued
for the 12-month period of May 1 to April 30. A business license issued for a
construction contract may, at the request of the licensee, be stated to expire
at the completion of the construction project; provided, any such business
license may require that the licensee file, by each April 30 during the
continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance, including
but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract. If any
revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount for
which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to pay a
license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount. The provisions of
this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from year to year as
amended by the Council.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.04 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX; REFUND.
   (A)   The required business license tax shall be paid for each business
subject hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
due date of April 30 in each year, except for those businesses in Rate Class 8
for which a different due date is specified. Late payments shall be subject to
penalties as set forth in §
110.12 hereof, except that admitted insurance companies may pay before June 1
without penalty.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the business license
tax shall be computed on the combined gross income for the classification
requiring the highest rate. The business license tax must be computed based on
the licensee's gross income for the calendar year preceding the due date, for
the licensee's 12-month fiscal year preceding the due date, or on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one year. The business license tax for a new business must be
computed on the estimated probable gross income for the balance of the license
year. A business license related to construction contract projects may be
issued on a per-project basis, at the option of the taxpayer. No refund shall
be made for a business that is discontinued.
   (C)   A licensee that submits a payment greater than the amount owed may
request a refund. To be considered, a refund request must be submitted in
writing to the municipality before the June 1 immediately following the April
30 on which the payment was due and must be supported by adequate documentation
supporting the refund request. The municipality shall approve or deny the
refund request, and if approved shall issue the refund to the business, within
30 days after receipt of the request.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.05 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent, or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed
business shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the
annexation. A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of
the individual who has been issued the corresponding state alcohol, beer, or
wine permit or license and will have actual control and management of the
business.
   (B)   Application shall be on the then-current standard business license
application as established and provided by the Director of the South Carolina
Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office and shall be accompanied by all information
about the applicant, the licensee, and the business deemed appropriate to carry
out the purpose of this chapter by the License Official. Applicants may be
required to submit copies of portions of state and federal income tax returns
reflecting gross receipts and gross revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported (or
estimated for a new business) without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property, and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
   (D)   The municipality shall allow application, reporting, calculation, and
payment of business license taxes through the business license tax portal
hosted and managed by the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office,
subject to the availability and capability thereof. Any limitations in portal
availability or capability do not relieve the applicant or licensee from
existing business license or business license tax obligations.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.06 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or county and fully reported to the municipality, taxes
collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included for
computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. Properly apportioned
income from business in interstate commerce shall be included in the
calculation of gross income and is not exempted. The applicant shall have the
burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory records and
proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or federal law. The License Official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of NAICS. No person shall be exempt from this chapter by reason of the
payment of any other tax, unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be
relieved of liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of
application of this chapter.
   (C)   Wholesalers are exempt from business license taxes unless they
maintain warehouses or distribution establishments within the municipality. A
wholesale transaction involves a sale to an individual who will resell the
goods and includes delivery of the goods to the reseller. It does not include a
sale of goods to a user or consumer.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization, or any affiliate of a charitable organization, that
reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated business income for
federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service shall be deemed a
business subject to a business license tax on the part of its gross income from
such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (E)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if (1) any net proceeds of
operation, after necessary expenses of operation, inure to the benefit of any
individual or any entity that is not itself a charitable organization as
defined in this chapter; or (2) any net proceeds of operation, after necessary
expenses of operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose
as defined in this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond
fair market value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee, or
person with ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a
necessary expense of operation.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.07 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.08 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the License Official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his person or in a vehicle used in the business
readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the License Official within
ten days after removal of the business to a new location and the license will
be valid at the new address upon written notification by the License Official
and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the approval
of the License Official for a change of address shall invalidate the license
and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a license. A
business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of controlling
interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and the
establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on old
business income.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The License Official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect business license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations
and audits to ensure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the Municipal Attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, undertake reasonable procedures relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.10 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
License Official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections and to examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful
for any such person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
business license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided
herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of business license tax
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The License Official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses to ensure compliance with this chapter. Financial
information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be deemed public
records, and the License Official shall not release the amount of business
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.11 ASSESSMENTS; PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST; APPEAL.
   (A)   Assessments, payments under protest, and appeals of assessment shall
be allowed and conducted by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of S.C.
Code § 6-1-410, as amended. In preparing an assessment, the License Official
may examine such records of the business or any other available records as may
be appropriate and conduct such investigations and statistical surveys as the
License Official may deem appropriate to assess a business license tax and
penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   The License Official shall establish a uniform local procedure
consistent with S.C. Code § 6-1-410 for hearing an application for adjustment
of assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment; provided that for
particular types of business licenses, including without limitation for
business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license taxes under
S.C. Code Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20 and Title 38, Chs. 7 and 45, the
municipality, by separate ordinance, may establish a different procedure and
may delegate one or more rights, duties, and functions hereunder to the
Municipal Association of South Carolina.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.12 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES; PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct business license
tax, the License Official shall impose and collect a late penalty of 5% of the
unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid.
Penalties shall not be waived. If any business license tax remains unpaid for
60 days after its due date, the License Official shall report it to the
Municipal Attorney for appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the License Official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.13 NOTICES.
   The License Official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that business license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be
published a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality three times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.14 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The License Official may deny a license to an applicant when the
License Official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation,
false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has been convicted within the previous ten years of an offense
under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving dishonest
conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a business, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee, prior licensee, or the person in control
of the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee;
      (6)   A licensee has actual knowledge or notice, or based on the
circumstances reasonably should have knowledge or notice, that any person or
employee of the licensee has committed a crime of moral turpitude on the
business premises, or has permitted any person or employee of the licensee to
engage in the unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods on the business
premises and has not taken remedial measures necessary to correct such
activity; or
      (7)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied,
suspended, or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the License Official shall be subject to appeal as
herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the License Official determines:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud,
misrepresentation, a false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression
of a material fact in the license application;
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted within the previous ten years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any
tax or fee; then
   (B)   The License Official may give written notice to the licensee or the
person in control of the business within the municipality by personal service
or mail that the license is suspended pending a single hearing before Council
or its designee for the purpose of determining whether the suspension should be
upheld and the license should be revoked.
   (C)   The written notice of suspension and proposed revocation shall state
the time and place at which the hearing is to be held, and shall contain a
brief statement of the reasons for the suspension and proposed revocation and a
copy of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.16 APPEALS TO COUNCIL OR ITS DESIGNEE.
   (A)   Except with respect to appeals of assessments under §
110.11, which are governed by S.C. Code § 6-1-410, any person aggrieved by a
determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation of a business
license by the License Official may appeal the decision to the Council or its
designee by written request stating the reasons for appeal, filed with the
License Official within ten days after service by mail or personal service of
the notice of determination, denial, or suspension and proposed revocation.
   (B)   A hearing on an appeal from a license denial or other determination of
the License Official and a hearing on a suspension and proposed revocation
shall be held by the Council or its designee within ten business days after
receipt of a request for appeal or service of a notice of suspension and
proposed revocation. The hearing shall be held upon written notice at a regular
or special meeting of the Council, or, if by designee of the Council, at a
hearing to be scheduled by the designee. The hearing may be continued to
another date by agreement of all parties. At the hearing, all parties shall
have the right to be represented by counsel, to present testimony and evidence,
and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings shall be recorded and
transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting. The rules of evidence
and procedure prescribed by Council or its designee shall govern the hearing.
Following the hearing, the Council by majority vote of its members present, or
the designee of Council if the hearing is held by the designee, shall render a
written decision based on findings of fact and conclusions on application of
the standards herein. The written decision shall be served, by personal service
or by mail, upon all parties or their representatives and shall constitute the
final decision of the municipality.
   (C)   Timely appeal of a decision of Council or its designee does not
effectuate a stay of that decision. The decision of the Council or its designee
shall be binding and enforceable unless overturned by an applicable appellate
court after a due and timely appeal.
   (D)   For business licenses issued to businesses subject to business license
taxes under S.C. Code Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20 and Title 38, Chs. 7 and 45, the
municipality may establish a different procedure by ordinance.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.17 CONSENT, FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain,
or operate in, on, above, or under any street or public place under control of
the municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure, or facility for
utilities, communications, cablevision, or other purposes without a consent
agreement or franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that
prescribes the term, fees, and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.18 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, no official or employee of the municipality may divulge or make known in
any manner the amount of income or any financial particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so
classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns.
Any license data may be shared with other public officials or employees in the
performance of their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement
of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.19 SEVERABILITY.
   A determination that any portion of this chapter is invalid or unenforceable
shall not affect the remaining portions. To the extent of any conflict between
the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the South Carolina
Business License Tax Standardization Act, as codified at S.C. Code §§ 6-1-400
et seq., the Standardization Act shall control.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 110.20 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The business license tax for each class of businesses subject to this
chapter shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule, designated as
Appendix A of this chapter, which may be amended from time to time by the
Council.
   (B)   The current business license class schedule is designated as
Appendix B of this chapter. Hereafter, no later than December 31 of each odd
year, the municipality shall adopt, by ordinance, the latest standardized
business license class schedule as recommended by the Municipal Association of
South Carolina and adopted by the Director of the South Carolina Revenue and
Fiscal Affairs Office. Upon adoption by the municipality, the revised business
license class schedule shall then be appended to this chapter as a replacement
Appendix B.
   (C)   The classifications included in each rate class are listed with NAICS
codes, by sector, subsector, group, or industry. The business license class
schedule (
Appendix B) is a tool for classification and not a limitation on businesses
subject to a business license tax. The classification in the most recent
version of the business license class schedule adopted by the Council that most
specifically identifies the subject business shall be applied to the business.
The License Official shall have the authority to make the determination of the
classification most specifically applicable to a subject business.
   (D)   A copy of the class schedule and rate schedule shall be filed in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (E)   (1)   All "in town" businesses must pay an annual solid waste tipping
fee, due and payable when obtaining a business license. This fee is ESTABLISHED
AND MANDATED BY ANDERSON COUNTY to help defray the cost of solid waste. The
town collects this fee on behalf of and as a convenience to the county. This is
a separate fee from any sanitation fees charged by the town for collection of
garbage and is not a part of the business license tax established by this
chapter.
      (2)   Apartment complexes and home occupations are exempt from this
section.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs provided for
in this chapter.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21)
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE RATE SCHEDULE
   (A)   Resident rates.
           Income: $0 - $2,000 Income over $2,000
Rate Class Base Rate           Rate per $1,000 or Fraction Thereof
           Income: $0 - $2,000          Income over $2,000
Rate Class Base Rate                    Rate per $1,000 or Fraction Thereof
1          $25                          $0.80
2          $26                          $0.85
3          $27                          $0.90
4          $28                          $0.95
5          $29                          $1
6          $30                          $1.05
7          $31                          $1.10
8.1        $15                          $0.85
8.2        Set by state statute
8.3        MASC telecommunications
8.4        MASC insurance
8.51       $12.50 + $12.50 per machine
8.52       $12.50 + $180 per machine
8.6        $27 + $5 or $12.50 per table $0.90
9.9        $31                          $1.10
 
   (B)   Non-resident rates. Unless otherwise specifically provided, all taxes
and rates shall be doubled for non-residents and itinerants having no fixed
principal place of business within the municipality.
   (C)   Declining rates. Declining rates apply in all classes for gross income
in excess of $1,000,000, unless otherwise specifically provided for in this
chapter.
Gross Income in Millions of Dollars Percent of Class Rate for Each Additional
                                    $1,000
Gross Income in Millions of Dollars Percent of Class Rate for Each Additional
                                    $1,000
0 - 1                               100%
1 - 2                               85%
2 - 3                               80%
3 - 4                               75%
4 - 5                               60%
5 - 6                               55%
Over 6                              50%
 
   (D)   Class 8 rates.
      (1)   Each NAICS number designates a separate subclassification. The
businesses in this section are treated as separate and individual subclasses
due to provisions of state law, regulatory requirements, service burdens, tax
equalization considerations, and other factors that are deemed sufficient to
require individually determined rates. In accordance with state law, the
municipality also may provide for reasonable subclassifications for rates,
described by an NAICS sector, subsector, or industry, that are based on
particularized considerations as needed for economic stimulus or for the
enhanced or disproportionate demands on municipal services or infrastructure.
      (2)   Non-resident rates do not apply except where indicated.
   (E)   8-1 NAICS 230000 - contractors, construction, all types (non-resident
rates apply).
      (1)   Resident rates, for contractors having a permanent place of
business within the municipality:
         (a)   Minimum on first $2,000: $15; plus
         (b)   Each additional $1,000: $0.85.
      (2)   Non-resident rates apply to contractors that do not have a
permanent place of business within the municipality. A trailer at the
construction site or structure in which the contractor temporarily resides is
not a permanent place of business under this chapter.
      (3)   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all state
and municipal qualification examination and trade license requirements have
been met. Each contractor shall post a sign in plain view on each job
identifying the contractor with the job.
      (4)   Sub-contractors shall be licensed on the same basis as general or
prime contractors for the same job. No deductions shall be made by a general or
prime contractor for value of work performed by a sub-contractor.
      (5)   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all
performance and indemnity bonds required by the Building Code have been filed
and approved. Zoning permits must be obtained when required by the Zoning
Ordinance.
      (6)   Each prime contractor shall file with the License Official a list
of sub-contractors furnishing labor or materials for each project.
      (7)   For licenses issued on a per-job basis, the total tax for the full
amount of the contract shall be paid prior to commencement of work and shall
entitle the contractor to complete the job without regard to the normal license
expiration date. An amended report shall be filed for each new job and the
appropriate additional license fee per $1,000 of the contract amount shall be
paid prior to commencement of new work. Only one base tax shall be paid in a
license year. Licensees holding a per-job license shall file, by each April 30
during the continuation of the construction project, a statement of compliance,
including but not limited to a revised estimate of the value of the contract.
If any revised estimate of the final value of such project exceeds the amount
for which the business license was issued, the licensee shall be required to
pay a license fee at the then-prevailing rate on the excess amount.
   (F)   8.2 NAICS 482 - railroad companies. See S.C. Code § 12-23-210.
   (G)   8.3 NAICS 517111, 517112, 517122 - telephone companies. With respect
to "retail telecommunications services" as defined in S.C. Code § 58-9-2200,
the municipality participates in a collections program administered by the
Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality has approved
participation in the collections program by separate ordinance (the
"Telecommunications Collections Ordinance"). The rates, terms, conditions,
dates, penalties, appeals process, and other details of the business license
applicable to retail telecommunications services are set forth in the
Telecommunications Collections Ordinance.
   (H)   8.4 NAICS 5241 - insurance companies. Independent agents, brokers,
their employees are subject to a business license tax based on their natural
class. With respect to insurers subject to license fees and taxes under S.C.
Code Title 38, Ch. 7 and to brokers under S.C. Code Title 38, Ch. 45, the
municipality participates in a collections program administered by the
Municipal Association of South Carolina. The municipality has approved
participation in the collections program by separate ordinance (the "Insurers
and Brokers Collections Ordinance"). The rates, terms, conditions, dates,
penalties, appeals process, and other details of the business license
applicable to insurers and brokers are set forth in the Insurers and Brokers
Collections Ordinance.
   (I)   8.51 NAICS 713120 - amusement machines, coin operated (except
gambling). Music machines, juke boxes, kiddy rides, video games, pin tables
with levers, and other amusement machines with or without free play feature
licensed by the SC Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)
(l) and (A)(2) [Type I and Type II]:
      (1)   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to
S.C. Code §12-21-2746:
         (a)   Per machine: $12.50; plus
         (b)   Business license: $12.50.
      (2)   Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by
the state as an operator pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2728 are not subject to
Subclass 8.51.
   (J)   8.52 NAICS 713290 - amusement machines, coin operated, non-payout.
Amusement machines of the non-payout type or in-line pin game licensed by the
SC Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(3) [Type III].
      (1)   For operation of all machines (not on gross income), pursuant to
S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(B):
         (a)   Per machine: $180; plus
         (b)   Business license: $12.50.
      (2)   Distributors that sell or lease machines and are not licensed by
the state as an operator pursuant to § 12-21-2728 are not subject to Subclass
8.52.
   (K)   8.6 NAICS Code Varies - billiard or pool tables. A business that
offers the use of billiard or pool tables shall be subject to business license
taxation under its natural class for all gross income of the business excluding
the gross income attributable to the billiard or pool tables. In addition, the
billiard or pool tables shall require their own separate business licenses
pursuant to SC Code § 12-21-2746 and shall be subject to a license tax of $5
per table measuring less than 3- 1/2 feet wide and seven feet long, and $12.50
per table longer than that.
   (L)   9.9 NAICS 531110 - lessors of residential buildings and dwellings. Any
person owning or having any financial interest in two or more units of
residential which units of property are for rent, lease, regardless of whether
said units are at the same location within the town limits of Pendleton, shall
be considered in the rental business and shall pay a business license tax based
on the rate schedule:
      (1)   Minimum on first $2,000: $31; plus
      (2)   Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000: $1.10.
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 11-7-23)
APPENDIX B: BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
   
   This appendix will be updated every odd year based on the latest available
IRS statistics.
NAICS Sector/Subsector Industry Sector Class
NAICS Sector/Subsector Industry Sector                                   Class
11                     Agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing        1
21                     Mining                                            2
31 - 33                Manufacturing                                     3
42                     Wholesale trade                                   1
44 - 45                Retail trade                                      1
48 - 49                Transportation and warehousing                    1
51                     Information                                       4
52                     Finance and insurance                             7
53                     Real estate and rental and leasing                7
54                     Professional, scientific, and technical services  5
55                     Management of companies                           7
56                     Administrative and support and waste management   3
                       and remediation services
61                     Educational services                              3
62                     Health care and social assistance                 4
71                     Arts, entertainment, and recreation               3
721                    Accommodation                                     1
722                    Food services and drinking places                 2
81                     Other services                                    4
Class 8                Subclasses                                         
23                     Construction                                      8.1
482                    Rail transportation                               8.2
517111                 Wired telecommunications carriers                 8.3
517112                 Wireless telecommunications carriers (except      8.3
                       satellite)
517122                 Agents for wireless telecommunications service    8.3
5241                   Insurance carriers                                8.4
5242                   Insurance brokers for non-admitted insurance      8.4
                       carriers
713120                 Amusement parks and arcades                       8.51
713290                 Nonpayout amusement machines                      8.62
713990                 All other amusement and recreational industries   8.6
                       (pool tables)
Class 9                Optional subclasses                                
531110                 Lessors of residential buildings and dwellings    9.9
Note: 2023 Class Schedule is based on a three-year average (2017 - 2019)  
of IRS statistical data.
 
(Ord. 21-14, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 23-15, passed 11–7-23)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Grant of nonexclusive authority
   
111.04   Compliance with applicable laws and ordinances
   
111.05   Franchise territory and extension of service
   
111.06   Liability and indemnification
   
111.07   Service quality requirements
   
111.08   Operation and maintenance of system
   
111.09   Carriage of signals
   
111.10   Service to public buildings
   
111.11   Emergency use of facilities
   
111.12   Other business activities
   
111.13   Safety requirements
   
111.14   New developments
   
111.15   Conditions on street occupancy
   
111.16   Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited
   
111.17   Removal of facilities upon request
   
111.18   Transfer or encumbrance of franchise
   
111.19   Compliance with federal rules and regulations
   
111.20   Filings and communications with regulatory agencies
   
111.21   Powers retained by the town
   
111.22   Town rights in franchise
   
111.23   Rights of the grantee
   
111.24   Maps, plats, and reports
   
111.25   Payments to the city
   
111.26   Franchise term, renewal and termination
   
111.27   Town’s right of intervention
   
111.28   Further agreement and waiver by grantee
   
111.29   Duration and acceptance
   
111.30   Erection, removal and common use of poles
   
111.31   Rates
   
111.32   Publication costs
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Pendleton’s
Cable Television Ordinance.”
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and include the
plural number.
   CATV. Mean Cable Television System.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. Any facility which in whole or in part receives
directly or indirectly over the air and amplifies or otherwise modifies the
signals transmitting programs broadcasted by one on more television, AM and FM
radio stations and distributes such signals by wire or cable to subscribing
members of the public who pay for such services or distributes by cable or
wire, news, weather and other programming.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of Pendleton.
   FRANCHISE. Means and includes any authorization granted hereunder in terms
of a franchise, right and privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain
in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the streets, alleys, lanes,
public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all extensions
thereof and additions thereto in the town, poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other conductors and fixtures necessary to maintain and
operate a CATV system in the town.
   GRANTEE. Fort Hill Cable TV, Inc., or any- one who succeeds Fort Hill Cable
TV., Inc. in accordance with the provisions of this franchise.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The grantee’s gross sub- scriber revenue from Cable
Television operations in the town and shall include all revenue derived from
those carrying of broadcast signals and nonbroadcast services including
installation, reconnection and relocation charges. Revenues derived from
auxiliary services, such as advertising revenues, leased channel revenues,
converter charges and pay cable revenues are specifically excluded from gross
revenues.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   SHALL. Always mandatory and not merely directory.
   TOWN. The Town of Pendleton.
   TWO-WAY CAPACITY. Means that such system shall maintain a plant having
technical capacity for audio and video return communications.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.03 GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby granted by the town to the grantee the right and
privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain, in, upon, along, across,
above, over and under the streets, alleys, public ways and public places now
laid out or dedicated, and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, in
the town, poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other
television conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation
in the town of a CATV system for the interception, sale and distribution of
television, radio and nonbroadcast signals.
   (B)   The right to use and occupy said streets, alleys, public ways and
places for the purposes herein set forth shall not be exclusive, and the town
reserves the right to grant a similar use of the street, alleys, public ways,
and places, to any person at any time during the period of this franchise.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.04 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be
subject to all lawful exercise of the police power by the town and to such
reasonable regulations as the town shall hereafter provide.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.05 FRANCHISE TERRITORY AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchise is operative within the present limits of the town and
any new areas annexed during the franchise term. When annexed, all facilities
owned by grantee shall be subject to the terms of the franchise.
   (B)   The grantee, whenever it shall receive a request for service from 17
subscribers per 2690 feet of its cable television system, shall extend such
service at no cost other than its usual subscriber connection fees.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a complaint from a group of potential subscribers less
in number and/or greater in distance from the cable television system than
division (B) above, the town may direct provision of service by the grantee
upon appropriate sharing of the costs (by subscribers) of extending.
   (D)   The grantee shall construct the system so as to provide service to all
parts of the town having a density of at least 45 potential subscribers per
mile of cable length.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.06 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The grantee shall pay, and by its acceptance of this franchise the
grantee specifically agrees that it will pay all damages and penalties which
the town may legally be required to pay as a result of granting this franchise.
These damages or penalties shall include, but shall not be limited to, damages
arising out of copyright infringements and all other damages arising out of the
installation, operation, or maintenance of the CATV system authorized herein,
whether or not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this franchise.
   (B)   The grantee shall pay, and by its acceptance of this franchise
specifically agrees that it will pay, all expenses incurred by the town in
defending itself with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned in division
(A) above. These expenses shall include all out-of-pocket expenses, such as
attorney fees, and shall also include the reasonable value of any services
rendered by the town attorney, his assistants, or any employees of the town.
   (C)   The grantee shall maintain, and by it acceptance of this franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the terms of this
franchise liability insurance insuring the town and the grantee with regard to
all damages mentioned in division (A) above in the minimum amounts of:
      (1)   $300,000 for bodily injury or death resulting from any one
accident.
      (2)   $500,000 for property damage resulting from any one accident.
      (3)   $1,000,000 for all types of liability.
   (D) The insurance policy obtained by the grantee in compliance with this
section must be filed with the Town Council; and such insurance policy, bond,
along with written evidence of payment of required premiums, shall be filed and
maintained with the Town Clerk during the term of this franchise.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.07 SERVICE QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.
   The grantee shall:
   (A)   Produce a picture, whether in black and white or in color, that is
undistorted, free from ghost images, and accompanied with proper sound on
typical standard production television sets in good repair, and as good as the
state of the art allows;
   (B)   Transmit signals of adequate strength to produce good pictures with
good sound at all outlets without causing cross-modulation in the cables or
interfering with other electrical or electronic systems;
   (C)   Limit failures to minimum by locating and correcting malfunctions
promptly, but in no event longer than 24 hours after notice;
   (D)   Notify subscribers affected 24 hours prior to any planned interruption
of service;
   (E)   Demonstrate upon request by instruments and otherwise to subscribers
that a signal of adequate strength and quality is being delivered;
   (F)   Maintain a written record listing full details of all customer
complaints and resolution of the com- plaints, disconnections and new
subscribers. Such records shall be available for inspection by the town.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.08 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions insofar as possible shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the system.
   (B)   The grantee shall maintain an office or business agent within the toll
free telephone area of the town, which shall be available during all usual
business hours, have a listed telephone, and be so operated that complaints and
requests for repairs or adjustments may be received at any time.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.09 CARRIAGE OF SIGNALS.
   The grantee shall receive and distribute television and radio signals which
are disseminated to the general public without charge by broadcasting stations
licensed by the FCC. All FCC regulations shall be complied with regarding the
carriage of the programming of any existing or future televisions broadcasting
station which covers the town in its principal broadcasting area.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.10 SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   The grantee shall provide a connection to each public building located
within 500 feet of its plant within the town upon request by the town and at no
cost to it or any public agency. The grantee shall provide similar services
without cost to accredited institutions such as private schools, and including
parochial or other religious schools; provided, however, that the installation
coast of the first 500 feet of such service shall be borne by grantee.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.11 EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES.
   In the case of an emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon request of
the town, make available its facilities to the town for emergency use during
the emergency or disaster period. The grantee shall be held harmless from any
liability or damage occurring during the town’s emergency use of the grantee’s
system as provided in the paragraph which arises as a result of the negligence
of officers or agents of the town.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.12 OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The grantee shall not engage in the business of selling, repairing or
installing television receivers, radio receivers, or accessories for such
receivers within the town during the term of this franchise.
   (B)   This franchise authorizes the operation of a CATV system as provided
for herein, and takes the place of any other franchise, license or permit which
might be required by law of the grantee to operate such a business within the
town.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.13 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or nuisances
to the public.
   (B)   The grantee shall install and maintain its wires, cables and fixtures
and other equipment in accordance with the requirements of the National
Electric Safety Code and in such manner that they will not interfere with any
installations of the town or of a public utility serving the town.
   (C)   All structures and all lines, equipment and connections in, over,
under and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys and public ways or places of the
town, wherever situated or located, shall at all times be kept and maintained
in a safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in good order and repair.
   (D)   The grantee shall maintain a force of one or more agents or employees
at all times and shall have sufficient employees to provide safe, adequate and
prompt service for its facilities.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.14 NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   It shall be the policy of the town liberally to amend this franchise, upon
application of the grantee, when necessary to enable the grantee to take
advantage of any developments in the field of transmission of television and
radio signals which will afford it an opportunity more effectively, efficiently
or economically to serve its customers; provided, however, that this section
shall not be construed to require the town to make any amendment or to prohibit
if from unilaterally changing its policy stated herein.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.15 CONDITIONS ON STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the grantee within the town shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public ways and
places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who join any of the said streets, alleys or
other public ways and places.
   (B)   In the event the relocation, construction, reconstruction, maintenance
or repair by the town of any street, alley, lanes or other public places, or
any of its sewers or gas or water mains, or electric, fire alarm, police
communication, or traffic control facilities, or any part thereof, or in the
event access to any street, alley, lane or other public place to or from any
property of the town is required, and it is necessary to move, alter or
relocate, either permanently or temporarily, any of the grantee’s poles, wires,
electrical conductors, conduits, subways, man-holes, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances, or any part thereof, in order for the town to relocate,
construct, reconstruct, maintain, or repair any such street, alley, or other
public place or any such sewer or gas or water main, or electric, fire alarm,
police communication or traffic control facility, or any part thereof or to
obtain access to or from such property, upon notice from the town the grantee
will move, alter or relocate such poles, wires, electrical con-ductor, conduit,
subway, manhole, fixture, appliance or appurtenance, or part thereof, may be
removed, altered or relocated by the town at the cost of the grantee, and the
town shall not be liable to the grantee for damages resulting from such
removal, alteration or relocation.
   (C)   The grantee shall place its cables, wires, or other like facilities
underground as may be required by the provisions of law of the state, the
ordinances and resolutions of the town, and as they may be amended, any
pertinent subdivision restriction, and the applicable section of the National
Electric Safety Code, as revised during the life of the franchise. It shall be
the policy of the town that the grantee will install its plant or existing pole
lines, after obtaining proper authorization from the owner thereof; install its
plant underground where all other utilities are underground.
   (D)   Any poles or other fixtures placed in any public way by the grantee
shall be placed in such manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on
such public way.
   (E)   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the town temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit
the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or raising or
lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the
grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
grantee shall be given not less than 48 hours advance notice to arrange for
such temporary wire changes.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.16 PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   The grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, service, service facilities,
rules, regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant any undue preference
or advantage to any person nor subject any person to prejudice or disadvantage.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.17 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES UPON REQUEST.
   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all its facilities and equipment from the premises of such subscriber
upon his request.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.18 TRANSFER OR ENCUMBRANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   grantee shall not transfer ownership of this franchise to any other
person without prior approval of the Town Council by ordinance.
   (B)   grantee may hypothecate its interest in this franchise for the purpose
of obtaining financing. Any change of ownership resulting from any such
hypothecation shall not become absolute until approved by the town and until
the new owner’s acceptance of this franchise and all of the rights and
obligations hereunder.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.19 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All rules and regulations, both present and future of any federal agency or
body having jurisdiction over cable television shall be complied with.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.20 FILINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   Copies of all petitions, applications and communications submitted by the
grantee to the Federal Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission, or any other federal or state regulatory commission or agency
having jurisdiction in respect to this franchise shall be maintained by the
grantee and, upon request, be submitted to the Town Council.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.21 POWERS RETAINED BY THE TOWN.
   This franchise is granted pursuant to Article 8, Section 15 of the
Constitution of South Carolina and Act No. 283, of the South Carolina Statutes
at Large, 1975, and is subject to all Franchises and permits heretofore granted
by the Council to use the streets, alleys, lanes and public places of the town
by public utility or public service corporations. It is not intended by the
grant of this franchise to abridge the exercise of the police power heretofore
or hereafter granted to the town by the General Assembly. The grant of this
franchise is subject to all ordinances and resolutions of the Council of the
town as the same now exist or may be hereafter amended, revised, or modified in
the lawful exercise of the police power or in the lawful exercise of any other
power granted to the town by the General Assembly.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.22 TOWN RIGHTS IN FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The right is hereby reserved to the town or the Town Council to adopt,
in addition to the provisions contained herein and in existing applicable
ordinances, such additional regulations as it shall find necessary; provided,
that such regulations, by ordinance or otherwise, shall be reasonable and not
in conflict with the rights herein granted.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to inspect the books, records, maps,
plans, income tax returns and other like materials of the grantee upon
reasonable notice and at any time during normal business hours.
   (C)   The town shall have the right to inspect and enforce compliance of all
construction or installation work performed subject to the provisions of this
franchise and make such inspections as it shall find necessary to insure
compliance with the terms of this franchise and other pertinent provisions of
law.
   (D)   At the expiration of the term for which this franchise is granted or
any extension thereof, or upon its termination and cancellation, as provided
for herein the town shall have the right to require the grantee to remove at
its own expense all portions of the CATV system from all public ways within the
town or sell the Cable Television System to a subsequent franchisee selected by
the town. The purchase price shall be the then fair market value of the system.
   (E)   After the expiration of the term for which this franchise is granted,
or after its termination and cancellation, as provided for herein, the town
shall have the right to determine whether the grantee shall continue to operate
and maintain the CATV system pending the decision of the town as to the future
maintenance and operation of such system.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this franchise shall be construed to exempt the
grantee from the payment of compensation or fees in the nature of rental
charges for such use of the public places of the town, and all property, both
real and personal, owned by the town.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.23 RIGHTS OF THE GRANTEE.
   (A)   The grantee shall have the right to construct, erect, operate and
maintain in, on along, across, above over and under the streets, alleys, lanes
and public places of the town, poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes and-other conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and
operation in the town of a cable television system at such locations as are
reasonably suitable and convenient for the purposes of the grantee and the
town, subject to the lawful exercise of the police power heretofore or
hereafter granted to the town by the state General Assembly.
   (B)   The grantee shall have the right to maintain and operate, subject to
the provisions, terms, conditions, and limitations prescribed in this franchise
and subject to the lawful exercise of the police power heretofore or hereafter
granted to the town by the General Assembly, a Cable Television System as
hereinbefore and hereinafter defined on the day this franchise becomes in force
and effect.
   (C)   The grantee shall not erect or install, move, alter, or change the
location of any pole, wire, cable, underground conduit, manholes, and any other
conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in the town
of a Cable Television System in any street, alley, lane, or public place of the
town unless prior verbal notice of its intention so to do is given to such
department or agency of the town as shall be designed by the Town Administrator
or the Town Council and verbal permission is granted by such department or
agency. Such permission shall be conditioned upon compliance with the terms,
and conditions as will preserve, protect, and promote safety of the public
places of the town and will prevent interference with or obstruction of the use
of streets, alleys, lanes, and other public places by the town.
   (D)   When mutually determined to be necessary for the purpose of public
safety, the grantee shall erect, install, and maintain on its poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes and other conductors and fixtures
necessary for tee maintenance and operation in the public places of the town,
such devices to appraise or warn persons using the streets, alleys, lanes, and
public places of the existence of such poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes, and other conductors and fixtures necessary for the
maintenance and operation in the town of Cable Television System as shall be
from time to time prescribed or approved by the department or agency of the
town as shall be designated for the purpose by the Town Administrator or Town
Council.
   (E)   The grantee shall have the right to remove, trim, cut, and keep clear
of its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other
conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in the town
of a cable Television System, the trees in and along the streets, alleys,
lanes, and other public places of the town, but in the exercise of such right,
the grantee shall not cut or otherwise injure trees to any greater extent than
is reasonably necessary for the erection, installation, maintenance, and use of
such poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other conductors
and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in the town of a Cable
Television System. The grantee shall not trim, cut, or remove any tree from any
street, alley, lane, or other public place unless prior verbal notice of its
intention so to do is given to such department or agency of the town as shall
be designated by the Town Administrator or Town Council and verbal permission
is granted by such department or agency, except in cases of emergency or when
such requirement is waived by such department or agency.
   (F)   The grantee in exercise of any right granted to it by this franchise
shall reconstruct, replace, restore, or repair any street, alley, lane, or
public place, and any sewer, gas, or water main, or pipe, or electric fire
alarm, police communication, or traffic control facility of the town, which may
be damaged, distributed or destroyed by the exercise of any such right, in a
manner, with such materials, and to the satisfaction of such departments or
agency of the town shall be designated by the Town Administrator or Town
Council. The town shall reserve the right to determine whether the grantee has
properly complied with the provisions of the paragraph and in the event it is
determined that the grantee has failed to do so, the town shall have the right
to carry out such provisions, and the grantee shall reimburse the town in full
for all expenses incurred by the town in carrying out all or part of such
provision.
   (G)   The grantee agrees that the provisions, terms, conditions, and
limitations prescribed in this franchise shall be applicable in all respects to
the use of streets, alleys, lanes, and public places situated in any territory
annexed to the town or which may otherwise become a part of the town through
extension of its corporate boundaries, and to the acquisition, erection,
maintenance, and use for the said purpose of the grantee, of poles, towers,
wires, appliances, conduits, subways, manholes, cable fixtures, facilities, and
appurtenances of the grantee in such streets, alleys, and public places and the
grantee shall have the same rights and privileges with respect thereto as are
granted by this franchise for the use of streets, alleys, lanes, and public
places of the town, regardless of the provisions of any franchise or other
authority, public or private granted by any county or other town or of or by
any deed or other instrument, and regardless of any limitations upon the
expiration thereof fixed in such franchise, authority, deed, or instrument; and
the right and privilege to use such streets, alleys, lanes, and public places
and to acquire, erect, maintain, and use such property in such streets, alleys,
lanes, and public places shall expire or terminate with the expiration or
termination of this franchise.
   (H)   This franchise authorizes only the use of town streets, alleys, lanes,
and other public ways and public places as hereinbefore set out for the
operation of a CATV system and does not take the place of any other franchise,
license, or permit which might be required by law of the grantee.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.24 MAPS, PLATS, AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall provide maps and plats of the system and shall
update these maps and plats and shall furnish a set of such updated maps to the
town upon request by the town.
   (B)   The grantee shall file annually with the Town Clerk not later than 60
after the end of the grantee’s fiscal year, a copy of its report to its
stockholders (if it prepares such a report), an income statement applicable to
its operations during the preceding 12 months period, a balance sheet, and a
statement of its properties devoted to CATV operations, by categories, giving
its investment in such properties on the basis of original cost, less
applicable depreciation. These reports shall be prepared or approved by
certified public accountant and there shall be submitted along with them such
other reasonable information as the Town Council shall request with respect to
the grantee’s properties and expenses related to its CATV operations within the
town.
   (C)   The grantee shall keep on file with the Town Clerk a current list of
its shareholders and bondholders.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.25 PAYMENTS TO THE CITY.
   The CATV grantee shall pay the following costs and fees to the town:
   (A)   An annual fee of 3% of the gross receipts. This fee schedule shall be
effective upon the award of the franchise and shall remain in effect during the
term of the franchise unless superseded by actions of federal, state or other
regulatory agencies.
   (B)   All costs, fees, including attorney fees, and other obligations
incurred by the town and which the town may legally be required to pay in
preparing, advertising and awarding of the franchise. These costs, fees and
other obligations shall include but shall not be limited to consulting fees,
printing, advertising and all other costs as deemed appropriate by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.26 FRANCHISE TERM, RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   The term of this franchise shall be for a period of 15 years from the
date of passage of this chapter. Upon expiration, the grantee may have his
franchise renewed for one or more 10 year periods if consistent with existing
FCC regulations. The existing grantee will have priority consideration over all
other applicants providing that his operations have well served the public
interest.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the town to consider amendments to this
franchised upon application of the grantee, when necessary to enable the
grantee to take advantage of any developments in the field of transmission of
television and radio signals which will afford it an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve its potential customers;
provided, however, that this section shall not be construed to require the town
to make any amendment to or prohibit the town from changing its policy state
herein.
   (C)   The town may terminate this franchise in the event of willful failure,
refusal, or neglect of the grantee upon due notice, to accomplish or comply
with the material requirements, regulations, or limitations of this ordinance,
FCC regulations, or any other valid authority. The grantee must comply within
60 days after the date of notice of award.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to terminate this franchise based upon any
of the following. Should the grantee:
      (1)   Become insolvent, refuse to pay its debts or is adjudged bankrupt.
      (2)   Fail to implement the provisions or responsibilities of this
chapter, or practice fraud or deceit upon the town.
      (3)   Fail to have at least 30 percent of the system in operation within
12 months after the effective date hereof.
      (4)   Fail to file for right of way clearances, FCC certificate of
compliance, and other necessary clearances within 60 days of date of award of
franchise.
      (5)   Fail to have service available to 95 percent of the homes in areas
of the town having at least 45 homes per trunk or distribution cable mile
within two years of start of construction.
      (6)   Fail to maintain system performance within FCC rules, standards,
and system specification as herein described, whichever may be higher.
   (E)   If this franchise is terminated by reason of the grantee’s default
that part of the system located on the public ways may either become the
property of the town, if so elected, at a cost not to exceed the fair market
price then prevailing; or removed or relocated by the town at the cost of the
grantee. In the event of a disagreement relative to the price of said property,
the Town Council shall appoint an arbitration committee involving a third party
for final resolution.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.27 TOWN’S RIGHT OF INTERVENTION.
   The grantee agrees not to oppose intervention by the town in any suit or
proceeding to which the grantee is a party.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.28 FURTHER AGREEMENT AND WAIVER BY GRANTEE.
   The grantee agrees to abide by all provisions of this franchise, and further
agrees that it will not at any future time set up as against the town or the
Town Council the claim that the provisions of this franchise are unreasonable,
arbitrary or void.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.29 DURATION AND ACCEPTANCE.
   The franchise, right and privilege is hereby granted to establish, maintain
and operate in the town a cable television system upon the condition that
within 60 days after the date of the passage of this chapter, the grantee shall
file with the Town Clerk its unconditional acceptance of this franchise and
promise to comply with and abide by its provisions, terms and conditions. Such
acceptance and promise shall be in writing duly executed and sworn to, by or on
behalf of the grantee before a notary public or other officer authorized by law
to administer oaths; provided, however, that should the grantee fail to comply
with the latter prescribed filing of acceptance, the grantee shall acquire no
right, privileges or authority under this franchise whatever.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.30 ERECTION, REMOVAL AND COMMON USE OF POLES.
   (A)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected on any town
property by the grantee without prior approval of the Town Council with regard
to location, height, type and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location
of any pole or wire-holding structure of the grantee shall be a vested interest
and such poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its
own expense whenever the Town Council determines that the public convenience
would be enhanced thereby.
   (B)   where poles or other wire-holding structures already existing for use
in serving the town are available for use by the grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the Town Council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   (C)   Where the town or a public utility serving the town desires to make
use of the poles or other wire-holding structures of the grantee but agreement
therefor with the grantee cannot be reached, the Town Council may require the
grantee to permit such use for such consideration and upon such terms as the
Council shall determine to be just and reasonable, if the Council determines
that the use would enhance the public convenience and would not unduly
interfere with the grantee’s operations.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.31 RATES.
   (A)   The rates and charges for cable television service distributed
hereinunder shall be fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory.
   (B)   Unless and until otherwise changed by the direction of the Town
Council, the rates for services hereinunder shall be as follows:
      (1)   For installation, a sum not to exceed $15 for Basic Service and an
additional sum not to exceed $15 for Premium Service.
      (2)   For moving and reconnecting each outlet, a sum not to exceed $10.
      (3)   For Basic Service to residential subscribers, a sum not to exceed
$7.50 per month for the first outlet and a sum not to exceed $2 for each
additional outlet.
      (4)   For Premium Service to residential subscribers, a sum not to exceed
$9 per month. Premium Service is available only at one outlet per residence.
      (5)   In the event advance payment for 12 months’ service is made,
service for the 13th month will be provided at no charge to subscribers.
      (6)   There will be no charge for service or for disconnection in the
month in which service is disconnected after receipt of written notice of
dissatisfaction with CATV service.
      (7)   Rates for all other services to be provided over the CATV system
shall be submitted to and approved by Town Council prior to being placed into
effect.
      (8)   Installation charges and monthly fees for commercial and industrial
establishments, apartments, and other multi- residential units shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule filed by grantee with the Town Council; the
rates must be approved by Council. These installation charges and fees shall be
based on the cable operator connecting directly to the subscriber set.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, the charges for company service shall
not be increased for a period of at least three years from the effective date
of this chapter; provided, however, the company may increase its charges after
Town Council approval and after public hearing, to reflect any increase in the
Consumer Price Index, as published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
1371 N. Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30309, between such
anniversary date and the Index on the date of adoption of this chapter. After
the initial three year period, any proposed increase by company which exceeds
the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index must be submitted to Town
Council for approval by the Town Council following such notice and public
hearing as the Council may require, prior to being put into effect.
   (D)   Proposed rate increase request shall be forwarded to the town for
review and approval along with the necessary back-up data and justification.
Upon advertising both in local newspapers, and on the CATV system, formal
public hearings will be held 30 days after first notice of the town. Judgements
by the town shall be final with a minimum of nine months before new hearings
can be instituted.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
§ 111.32 PUBLICATION COSTS.
   The grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise as such
publication is required by law and such is payable upon the grantee’s filing of
acceptance of this franchise.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 2-14-95)
CHAPTER 112: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Intent
   
112.03   Permit required
   
112.04   Number of garage sales and hours
   
112.05   Public address system prohibited
   
112.06   Advertising and signs
   
112.07   Right to inspect the premises
   
112.08   Parking
   
112.09   Exemptions
   
112.10   Permit fee
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. The sale of any used personal property, which sale conducted on
or about the premises of a private residence located in a residential
neighborhood, by the occupant of the premises and open to the public. This is
to include yard, attic, porch, room, backyard, patio, flea market, rummage
sale, and the like.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized, and maintained by an
individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal course
of living in or maintaining a residence. Personal property does not include
merchandise, goods or produce which were purchased for resale or obtained on
consignment.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03)
§ 112.02 INTENT.
   The Town Council believes that non-regulated garage sales are causing
annoyance to its citizens and that such unregulated sales constitute an
infringement upon the businesses licensed to do business within the town. The
purpose of this chapter is not to prevent, but to regulate, such garage sales.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03)
§ 112.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to conduct a garage sale as defined in §
112.01 without first obtaining a permit from the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 NUMBER OF GARAGE SALES AND HOURS.
   The maximum number of permits allowed per year is two for any one family
unit, location, lot, or premises. All participants in any joint sale must be
named on the permit. The permit shall be posted prominently at sale location.
Such garage sales shall be limited in time to no more than the daylight hours
of two consecutive days, excluding Sundays. Two consecutive days constitute one
yard sale.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   The use of a public address system at garage sales is prohibited.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 ADVERTISING AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Only two signs of not more than two square feet each may be posted
advertising the sale and such signs can only be placed on the property where
the garage sale is being conducted.
   (B)   All such signs must be removed at the CLOSE of the garage sale.
   (C)   Only four directional signs shall be used, but shall not be posted on
utility poles, streets, or traffic signs.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 RIGHT TO INSPECT THE PREMISES.
   For the purpose of enforcing this chapter, the town police officers shall
have the right of entry to such garage sales and may close such sale where any
provisions of this chapter are being violated.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03)
§ 112.08 PARKING.
   Parking shall be provided for all persons attending the sale in a manner
that would not affect the free flow of traffic on any public street near a
garage sale.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the
following:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
      (3)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or other business establishment
or by their distributors, suppliers, or manufacturing agents from, or at, a
place of business that holds a current business license.
   (B)   This provision is not to be construed to allow the merchants or other
business establishments conducting such sales to block or hinder any public
sidewalk, street, or other public by-way during the conduct of such sales.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03)
§ 112.10 PERMIT FEE.
   For the first permit issued for any one family unit, location, lot, or
premises there shall be no charge; however, there shall be an administrative
fee of $5 for issuance of a second annual permit.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its provisions
shall be a misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of such misdemeanor shall be
fined no more than $500 and/or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. Each day the
violation or failure to comply continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 80-02, passed 3-3-80; Am. Ord. 97-08, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 10-6-03)
CHAPTER 113: JUNKYARDS AND OPEN STORAGE
Section
   
113.01   Short title
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Purpose and scope
   
113.04   Development standards
   
113.05   Non-conforming uses on state, secondary, county, and private roads
   
113.06   Permits and licenses
   
113.07   Enforcement
   
113.08   Notices, hearings, and orders
§ 113.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Junkyard and Open Storage Ordinance of
the Town of Pendleton, South Carolina”.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. A structure forming a physical barrier which is so constructed that
no less than 50% of the vertical surface is open to permit the transmission of
light, air, and vision through the surface in a horizontal plane.
   JUNK. Includes old or scrap metal, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof.
   JUNK AUTO. Any automobile, truck, or other vehicle which meets two or more
of the following conditions: damaged, such as body damage, broken windows, or
windshields, missing wheels, tires, motor or transmission; unlicensed; or
inoperable.
   JUNKYARD. A junkyard is an establishment or place of business which is
maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or
for the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. This definition
includes scrap metal processors, auto-wrecking yards, salvage yards, scrap
yards, auto-recycling yards, parts awaiting disposal as a normal part of a
business operation when the business will continually have like materials
located on the premises. The definition includes garbage dumps and sanitary
landfills. The definition does not include litter, trash, and other debris
scattered along or upon the highways, or temporary operations and outdoor
storage of limited duration.
      (1)   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. An establishment or place of business which
is maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or selling
wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
      (2)   ILLEGAL JUNKYARD. An illegal junkyard is one which is established
or maintained in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   NON-CONFORMING JUNKYARD. A non-conforming junkyard is one which was
lawfully established, but which does not comply with the provisions of this
chapter. Illegally established junkyards are not non-conforming junkyards.
   LOT. Land occupied or intended for occupancy by use permitted in these
regulations. The word LOT includes site, yard, or parcel.
   MAIN TRAVELED WAY. The traveled way of a highway on which through traffic is
carried. In the case of a divided highway, the traveled way of each of the
separated roadways for traffic in opposite directions is a main traveled way.
It does not include such facilities as frontage roads, turning roadways or
parking areas.
   OPEN STORAGE. A yard, lot, site, or portion thereof, designed or used
exclusively for storage of junk as defined above.
   PERSON. A person shall mean any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company, or organization of any kind.
   USE. Any activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, or
intended to be carried on, in a building or other structure or on a tract of
land.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use located on the same lot with a principal use, and is
clearly incidental or subordinate to, and customary in connection with, the
principal use.
   USE, NON-CONFORMING. The use of land or a building or portion thereof which
does not conform with the regulations of this chapter.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main or primary use on a lot.
   VISUAL SCREEN. A visual screen is a static barrier which retrains and/or
shields from view a specified object or objects. For purposes of this chapter
“objects” refers to junk or junkyards.
   WALL. A structure forming a physical barrier which is so constructed that no
less than 50% of the vertical surface is open to permit the transmission of
light, air, and vision through such surface in a horizontal plane.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93)
§ 113.03 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by the
state Code of Laws upon the town.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide enforcement of existing and
proposed junkyards and open storage areas with development standards for
controlling the development and use of junkyards and open storage areas so that
these uses can be established and operated in the town without constituting a
hazard to the health and welfare of the people of the town inclusive of
attracting vermin, disease, public nuisance, fire hazard, blight, or adversely
affecting environmental conditions.
   (C)   No junkyard or open storage area, as defined by this chapter, shall be
established, erected, placed, located, or expanded in the town without first
meeting the minimum requirements of this chapter. The application of this
chapter shall extend to new junkyards and open storage areas in the town, as
well as the expansion of existing ones.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following development standards shall be considered minimum standards:
   (A)   Location. Junkyards shall be permitted to be located no closer than
1,000 feet from the nearest edge of the right-of-way of any state or federal
system highway. Junkyards shall be permitted to be located no closer than 1,000
feet from the nearest edge of the right-of-way of any county, private, or other
road. Junkyards must be located or screened so as not to be visible from the
main traveled way. Junkyards shall be permitted to be located no closer than
1,000 feet from the nearest residence.
   (B)   Size. Junkyards and open storage areas shall be limited as to size to
a maximum of ten acres.
   (C)   Screening.
      (1)   Junkyards and open storage areas which are visible from the main
traveled way must be blocked from public view. This shall be made possible by
enclosing all such junkyards with a continuous visual screen provided and
maintained by the owner of such property along the property line. The screen
shall be a wall or fence or a combination of fence and shrubbery at least eight
feet in height. A non-seasonal coniferous wall may be planted and maintained,
if at maturity these trees will form a barrier which would be defined as
static. However, where topography is such that the required screen will not
achieve the stated purposes of this section, then a screening plan shall be
prepared and submitted to the town.
      (2)   Sanitary landfills as described herein need not be screened to
satisfy requirements of Title 23, S.C. Code, but landscaping should be required
when the fill has been completed and operations have ceased, unless the
landfill area is to be used for immediate development purposes. A sanitary
landfill, for the purposes of this chapter is a method of disposing of refuse
on land without creating a nuisance or hazards to public health or safety by
utilizing the principles of engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest
practical area, to reduce it to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it
with a layer of earth at the conclusion of each day’s operation or at such more
frequent intervals as may be necessary.
      (3)   Materials stored or kept in the open shall not be permanently
stacked higher than the required screen. Storage between the screen and the
main traveled way is expressly prohibited.
   (D)   Performance standards. No material shall be placed in any junkyard or
open storage area in such a manner that it is capable of being transferred out
by wind, water, or other means. This includes all paper, rags, cloth, or
related fibers, and activities involving the same, other than when loading and
unloading.
   (E)   Access ways. The number of vehicular access driveways permitted to a
single junkyard or open storage area shall be limited to one per street, except
where the frontage on any one street exceeds 200 feet; the number of access
driveways may then be increased to two, provided that such driveways are no
closer than 150 feet apart. Driveways shall be limited to twenty-five feet in
width.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 NON-CONFORMING USES ON STATE, SECONDARY, COUNTY, AND PRIVATE ROADS. 
   (A)   Continuation requirements.
Non-conforming junkyards and open storage areas, those not meeting the minimum
requirements of this chapter and subsequently operating without a permit as
required in §
113.06 of these regulations, are declared to be in violation of this chapter.
      (1)   Such non-conforming uses are not re-established after
discontinuance or abandonment for a period of three months.
      (2)   Such non-conforming uses are not enlarged or altered in any way
which increases their non-conformity.
   (B)   Basis for revoking license. A licensed non-conforming junkyard shall
have its license revoked, after which it shall be treated as a new junkyard at
a new location, if any of the following occurs:
      (1)   Use of the non-conforming junkyard is voluntarily discontinued or a
change of the non-conforming use to some other kind of use is made, which shall
constitute abandonment.
      (2)   The location of the non-conforming junkyard is changed as a result
of a right-of-way taking or for any other reason.
      (3)   The non-conforming junkyard is extended or enlarged at its present
location without conforming to §
113.04.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   No junkyard or open storage area shall be located on an individual
lot, parcel, or site in the town without a permit therefor, issued by the Town
Building Department. The Police Department will conduct a on site inspection of
the proposed junkyard upon the issuance of a permit.
      (2)   A state permit shall also be required for any junkyard or open
storage area located on any state or federal highway.
   (B)   Licenses. Non-conforming junkyards located on individual lots, parcels
or sites in the town and actually in existence at the effective date of this
chapter and which are to continue to be operated as ongoing enterprises shall
secure a non-conforming junkyard license, issued by the Town Building
Department.
   (C)   Applications for permits and licenses.  
      (1)   All applications for permits to locate, erect, or operate a
junkyard or open storage area and licenses to continue the operation of a non-
conforming junkyard shall be in triplicate on forms provided by the Town
Building Department and shall be signed by the applicant(s).
      (2)   One copy of the application shall be returned to the applicant
after it has been marked approved or disapproved and attested to the same in
writing. One marked copy shall be submitted to the Tax Assessor’s Office, and
the original copy similarly marked shall be retained by the Town Building
Department and copied for the Police Department.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town police officers and the county Litter Officer shall have the
authority to interpret and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   The police officers and the county Litter Officer shall be charged
with the enforcement of this chapter and shall be empowered to initiate action
for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93)
§ 113.08 NOTICES, HEARINGS, AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the police officers or the county Litter Officer determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of
any provision of this chapter, he/she shall give notice of the alleged
violation to the owner or agent of the junkyard or open storage area as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing, giving at least 15 days to correct the violation;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Be served upon the owner or an agent by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, mailed to the address set forth on
the permit; and
      (4)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which if taken will effect
compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
   (C)   Failure to comply with such notice will subject the owner or agent to
the provisions of §
113.07.
   (D)   Whenever the official finds an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, the
official may, without notice or hearing, issue an order citing the existence of
such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he may deem
necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of the permit.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of these regulations, such an order shall
be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-13-93)
CHAPTER 114: FRANCHISE USE OF STREETS
Section
   
114.01   Permission to use streets required
   
114.02   Consent, franchise, or business license fee required
   
114.03   Telephone companies not using public streets under franchise or
consent
§ 114.01 PERMISSION TO USE STREETS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain, or
operate in, on, above or under any street or public place under control of the
municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure or facility for utilities,
communications, cablevision or other purposes without a consent agreement or
franchise agreement issued by the municipal council by ordinance which
prescribes the term, fees, and conditions for use.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 2-10-98)Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 CONSENT, FRANCHISE, OR BUSINESS LICENSE FEE REQUIRED.
   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a consent
agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance approving the
agreement and shall be based on gross revenues derived from activities in the
municipality, the length of lines installed in streets and public places, or
other formula deemed appropriate by council. No consent fee or franchise fee
shall be construed to be in lieu of a business license tax based on gross
revenue unless specifically provided by ordinance. Credits for business license
taxes paid may be applied to fees set by ordinance granting consent or a
franchise when specifically authorized by the ordinance.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 2-10-98)
§ 114.03 TELEPHONE COMPANIES NOT USING PUBLIC STREETS UNDER FRANCHISE OR
CONSENT.
   Establishments providing local or long distance telephone communications as
described in Standard Industrial Classification(SIC) group 481, including voice
and data communications; radio telephone services; cellular telephone services;
paging and beeper services; leasing lines; fiber optic cables; microwave or
satellite facilities; selling access and reselling use of facilities or methods
to others shall pay an annual business license tax of 3% of gross receipts from
all communications activities conducted in the municipality and for
communication services billed to customers located in the municipality on which
a business license tax has not been paid to another municipality.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 2-10-98)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
132.   WEAPONS OFFENSES
      
133.   MORALS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Litter Control and Regulation
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Purpose
   
130.04   Authority
   
130.05   Application
   
130.06   Determination of litter
   
130.07   Handbills
   
130.08   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
LITTER CONTROL AND REGULATION
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Litter Control and Regulation
Ordinance of the Town of Pendleton, South Carolina". The Police Department and
the County Litter Officer shall now and hereafter be supervised by the Mayor of
the town.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISPOSABLE PACKAGE OR CONTAINER. All packages or containers defined as such
by rules and regulations adopted by the Department of Health and Environmental
Control (see S.C. Code § 44-67-10).
   LITTER. All waste materials including, but not limited to, disposable
packages or containers, trash, garbage, or refuse, including the waste of the
primary processes of mining, logging, saw milling, and trimming remnants.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE. Those containers adopted by the Department of Health and
Environmental Control which may be standardized as to size, shape, capacity,
and color, and which may bear a state or county anti-litter symbol, as well as
any other receptacle suitable for the depositing of litter.
   OPEN DUMP. A land disposal site for solid waste which does not qualify for a
sanitary land field.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, co- partnership, cooperative, firm,
company, public or private corporation, political subdivision, agency of the
state, trust, estate, joint structure company, or any other legal entity or its
legal representative, agent, or assigns.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area that is used or held out for use by the public
whether owned and operated by public or private interest.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of solid waste on land without
creating pollution, nuisances, environmental threats, or hazards to public
health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment facility,
water supply plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded
material, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous materials
resulting from the industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations,
and from community activities. The term does not include solid or dissolved
materials in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials from irrigation
return flows, or industrial discharges, which are point sources subject to
NPDES permits under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended, or the
pollution control acts of the state as amended, or a source from special
nuclear or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 as
amended.
   VEHICLE. Every device capable of being moved upon a public highway and in,
upon or by which any personal property is or may be transported or drawn upon a
public highway, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   WATERCRAFT. Any boat, ship, vessel, barge or any other floating craft.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02)
§ 130.03 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to set standards and regulations for
the control of litter in the town.
   (B)   The control of litter will have a lasting effect upon the town's
environment and appearance. The goal of this subchapter is the general up keep
of the community for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens. Subjects
such as transporting loose materials, illegal dumping, unlawful disposal,
handbills, nuisances, weeds and debris and the like shall not be allowed within
the boundaries of the town from any person or persons.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02)
§ 130.04 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of S.C. Code § 4-9-30
et seq. Personnel employed by the town shall be vested with the authority to
enforce and administer litter control within the town in accordance with the
provisions of S.C. Code § 44-67-10 et seq. and all rules and regulations
adopted thereunder and the same are incorporated herein by reference as fully
as set forth verbatim and as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall dump, throw, drop, deposit, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter or other solid waste upon any public property or upon private
property in the town whether from a vehicle or otherwise, including but not
limited to any public highway, public park, beach, campground, forest land,
recreational area, trailer park, highway, road, street, or alley except:
      (1)   When the property is designated by the town and/or state for the
disposal of litter and other solid waste and the person is authorized to use
the property for such purpose;
      (2)   Into a litter receptacle in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried away or deposited by the elements upon any part of
the private or public property or waters.
   (B)   Responsibility for the removal of litter from property or receptacles
shall be upon the owners of the property or upon the owner of the property,
except where litter has traveled through forces of elements onto property of
another in which case the owner of property of origin is responsible. (See S.C.
Code § 16-11-700.)
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 DETERMINATION OF LITTER.
   (A)   Responsibility for loose material on property.
      (1)   To help prevent and reduce litter in areas where fast food outlets,
shopping centers, convenience stores, supermarkets, service stations,
commercial parking lots, motels, hospitals, and educational institutions or any
other commercial establishments are located, owners and operators are
responsible for the loose materials that are produced on the establishment's
property by the patronizers or by the establishment itself. The materials are
subject to spreading into areas nearby and it is not the responsibility of the
property owners to clean up litter which was produced elsewhere. Thus it is the
responsibility of the owners and operators of publicly patronized
establishments to maintain their surrounding areas.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation,
institution, or organization to transport any loose materials by truck or other
motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the town unless the material is
covered and secured in such a manner as to prevent litter on public and private
property.
      (3)   Lack of adequate covering and securing of material while the loaded
truck or other motor vehicle is in motion shall in itself constitute a
violation of this section.
   (B)   Driver to be held liable. The driver of any vehicle, shall be held to
be in violation of this subchapter in the event it cannot be determined which
vehicle occupant committed any acts in violation of this section.
   (C)   Request of adequate receptacles by certain establishments.
      (1)   Litter receptacles. To help prevent or reduce litter by pedestrians
and motorists, the Anderson County Health Department requests that the owners
of publicly patronized establishments provide and maintain on their premises
litter receptacles. This requirement shall be applicable, but not limited to,
fast food outlets, shopping centers, convenience stores, supermarkets, service
stations, commercial parking lots, motels, hospitals, schools, colleges, and
universities.
      (2)   Placement of large receptacles. Litter receptacles such as
dumpsters, must be situated at a reasonable distance from public thoroughfares
to prevent blockage of view from state or county right- of-ways.
   (D)   Unlawful disposal. It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager,
employee, agent, or independent contractor, who works for a retail, commercial,
or institutional establishment (such persons include solicitors, vendors, and
the like) to deposit litter from that business in any receptacle other than a
litter receptacle maintained on premises, except after having received
permission from the Anderson County Litter Officer for disposal or transport to
a state or county permitted land field.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Distribution on private property. It shall be unlawful for any person
to hand out or distribute or sell any commercial or non-commercial handbill
upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if
there is placed on the private premises a conspicuous notice indicating in any
manner the occupants of the premises do not wish to have their right of privacy
disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon said premises.
   (B)   Obstruction of traffic. It shall be unlawful for any person to hand
out or distribute any commercial or non-commercial handbill or newspaper in a
manner which would obstruct or interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic
in or upon any street or other public place.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers employed by the town or Anderson County Litter
Officers are required to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (A)   Premises to be kept in sanitary condition. No person shall permit
household appliances which are left exposed to the elements and visible from
any public road or adjoining private property to remain on the property for a
period in excess of 20 days.
   (B)   Inspection of premises. The anti-litter officer shall be authorized
and required to cause the inspection of any premises within the limits of the
town whenever it shall be necessary to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Power and duty of the anti-litter officer for cleaning up lots and
premises. Whenever it shall appear to the anti-litter officer that there are
lying within the town limits any lots or premises in a condition which shall
constitute a present or potential hazard to the public health, the anti-litter
officer shall issue a written notice to the owner requiring the owner within 15
days to bring such property within the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Failure to abate; duty of the anti-litter officer. Any person who
refuses or neglects to abate any condition in violation of this subchapter
shall be subject to the provisions of §
130.99. In the event of such refusal or neglect it shall be the duty of the
anti-litter officer of the town to have removed or abated such nuisance and all
expense incurred in so abating or removing such nuisance shall be recoverable
from the owner of the premises from which the nuisance shall be removed or
abated, or from any person causing or maintaining the same, in the same manner
as debts of like amounts are now recoverable by law.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 and no more
than $200 for each offense. In addition to any fine and each offense under the
provisions of this section, the Court must also impose a minimum of five hours
of litter-gathering labor or other such public service as the Court may order
because of physical or other incapacities, and which is under the supervision
of the Court.
   (B)   The fine for a deposit of a collection of litter or garbage in an area
facility not intended for public deposit for litter or garbage is $200. The
provisions of this item apply at a deposit of litter or garbage as is defined
by the provisions of this chapter and S.C. Code § 34-67-30(4) in an area or
facility not intended for public deposit of litter or garbage, provided,
however, it shall not prohibit a private property owner from depositing litter
or garbage as a property enhancement so long as the depositing does not violate
applicable local or state health and safety regulations, and no portion thereof
migrates through the elements to property of another. In addition to any fine
and for each offense under the provisions of this item, the Court shall impose
a minimum of five hours of litter-gathering labor or other such public service
as the Court may order because of physical or other incapacities, and which is
under the supervision of the Court.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 4-1-02)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct prohibited
   
131.02   Public drinking prohibited
   
131.03   Refusal to accompany arresting officer unlawful
   
131.04   Hindering police officer unlawful
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section PUBLIC means affecting or
likely to affect any person or persons in a place to which the public or a
substantial group has access; among the places included are highways, transport
facilities, schools, apartment houses, public parks, or other public
facilities, places of business or worship or entertainment, governmental
buildings, or any neighborhood.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Be found on any highway or at any public place or public gathering
in a grossly intoxicated condition or otherwise conducting himself in a
disorderly or boisterous manner;
      (2)   Use obscene or profane language on any highway or at any public
place or gathering or in hearing distance of any schoolhouse or church; or
      (3)   While under the influence or feigning to be under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, without just cause or excuse, discharge any gun, pistol,
or other firearm while upon or within 50 yards of any public road or highway;
      (4)   Engage in fighting, threatening, riotous, violent, or tumultuous
behavior.
(S.C. Code § 16-17-530) (Ord. 80-05, passed 4-28-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 PUBLIC DRINKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or to have in possession or
under control in any open container any spirituous malt, vinous, fermented,
brewed, or other type beer or wine which contains alcohol, and is used as a
beverage, on any street, highway, park, or public place not lawfully licensed
to sell such beverages for on-premise consumption; provided that persons
occupying a moving vehicle shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 80-06, passed 7-7-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 REFUSAL TO ACCOMPANY ARRESTING OFFICER UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under arrest to refuse to accompany the
arresting officer, or to endeavor to force the officer to drag, pull, or carry
the person to the place of destination.
(Ord. 81-03, passed 4-6-81) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 HINDERING POLICE OFFICER UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Hinder, prevent, or obstruct any officer or other person charged with
the execution of any warrant or other process in arresting any person for whose
apprehension such warrant or other process may have been issued, or to hinder,
prevent, or obstruct any officer or other person in the execution of any
legally-prescribed general duties;
   (B)   Rescue or attempt to rescue such person from the custody of the
officer or person or persons lawfully assisting the officer, as aforesaid;
   (C)   Aid, abet, or assist any person so arrested, as aforesaid, directly or
indirectly, to escape from the custody of the officer or person or persons
assisting the officer, as aforesaid; or
   (D)   Harbor or conceal any person for whose arrest a warrant or other
process shall have been issued, so as to prevent the persons discovery and
arrest, after notice or knowledge of the fact of the issuing of such warrant or
other process.
   (E)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hinderance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of speech only.
(S.C. Code § 16-5-50) (Ord. 81-03, passed 4-6-81) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: WEAPONS OFFENSES
Section
   
132.01   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
132.02   Exceptions
   
132.03   Forfeiture of weapons
§ 132.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except in cases of urgent necessity, to
discharge or cause to be discharged any firearm or explosives within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 80-04, passed 4-7-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to apply to the
discharge of firearms or other weapons as defined herein in theatrical or like
performances or military or similar displays, or to abridge the right of self-
defense, or to prohibit or to restrain any police duty or any other duty
enjoined by law or the shooting of any rabid canine or other dangerous animal.
(Ord. 80-04, passed 4-7-80)
§ 132.03 FORFEITURE OF WEAPONS.
   Any firearm or other weapons, herein defined, so discharged by any minor,
disorderly, or irresponsible person shall, in the discretion of the Chief of
Police, be forfeited to the town.
(Ord. 80-04, passed 4-7-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: MORALS OFFENSES
Section
Synthetic Drugs
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Sale of synthetic cannabinoids or substituted cathinones prohibited
   
133.03   Possession of synthetic cannabinoids or substituted cathinones
prohibited
   
133.04   Labeling
   
133.05   Confiscation and destruction of synthetic cannabinoids or substituted
cathinones
 
   
133.99   Penalty
SYNTHETIC DRUGS
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBSTITUTED CATHINONES. Any compound, except bupropion or compounds listed
under a different schedule, structurally derived from 2-aminopropan-1-one by
substitution at the 1-position with either phenyl, naphthyl, or thiophene ring
systems, whether or not the compound is further modified in any of the
following ways:
      (1)   By substitution in the ring system to any extent with alkyl,
alkylenedioxy, alkoxy, haloalkyl, hydroxyl, or halide substituents, whether or
not further substituted in the ring system by one or more other univalent
substituents;
      (2)   By substitution at the 3-position with an acyclic alkyl
substituent;
      (3)   By substitution at the 2-amino nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl,
benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups; or
      (4)   By inclusion of the 2-amino nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS. Any of the following cannabinoids, their salts,
isomers, and salts of isomers, unless specifically excepted, whenever the
existence of these salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the
specific chemical designation:
      (1)   Tetrahydrocannabinols: Meaning tetra- hydracannabinols naturally
contained in a plant of the genus Cannabis (cannabis plant), as well as
synthetic equivalents of the substances contained in the plant, or in the
resinous extractives of Cannabis, sp., and/or synthetic substances,
derivatives, and their isomers with similar chemical structure and
pharmacological activity such as the following: Delta 1 cis- or trans-
tetrahydrocannabinol, and their optical isomers Delta 6 cis- or trans-
tetrahydrocannabinol, and their optical isomers Delta 3,4 cis- or trans-
tetrahydrocannabinol, and its optical isomers. (Since nomenclature of these
substances is not internationally standardized, compounds of these structures,
regardless of numerical designation of atomic positions covered.)
      (2)   Naphthoylindoles: Any compound containing a 3-(1-naphthoyl)indole
structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring by an
alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-
piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or not further
substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in
the naphthyl ring to any extent.
      (3)   Naphthylmethylindoles: Any compound containing a 1H-indol-3-yl-(1-
naphthyl)methane structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole
ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-
methyl- 2-piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not
further substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not
substituted in the naphthyl ring to any extent.
      (4)   Naphthoylpyrroles: Any compound containing a 3-(1-naphthoyl)pyrrole
structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the pyrrole ring by alkyl,
haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-
piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not further
substituted in the pyrrole ring to any extent, whether or not substituted in
the naphthyl ring to any extent.
      (5)   Naphthylmethylindenes: Any compound containing a
naphthylideneindene structure with substitution at the 3-position of the indene
ring by an aikyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, 1-(N- methyl-2-
piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not further
substituted in the indene ring to any extent, whether or not substituted in the
naphthyl ring to any extent.
      (6)   Phenylacetylindoles: Any compound containing a 3-phenylacetylindole
structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring by an
alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-piperindinyl)methyl
or 2-(4- morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not further substituted in the
indole ring to any extent, whether or not substituted in the phenyl ring to any
extent.
      (7)   Cyclohexylphenols: Any compound containing a 2-(3-
hydroxycyclohexyl)phenol structure with substitution at the 5-position of the
phenolic ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl,
cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-piperindinyl)methyl or
2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not substituted in the cyclohexyl ring
to any extent.
      (8)   Benzoylindoles: Any compound containing a 3-(benzoyl)indole
structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring by an
alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-
piperindinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not further
substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in
the phenyl ring to any extent.
      (9)   2/3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpho- linylmethyl)pyrrolo [1,2,3-de]-
1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1- naphthalenylmethanone. Some trade or other names: WIN
55,212-2.
      (10)   9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3- (2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo- [c]chromen-1-o1. Some trade or other names: HU-
210, HU-211.
      (11)   Adamantoylindoles: Any compound containing a 3-(1-
adamantoyl)indole structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the
indole ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl,
1-(N-methyl-2-piperindinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or
not further substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not
substituted in the adamantyl ring system to any extent.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, business, corporation, partnership, group, or
other legal entity.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 3-5-12)
§ 133.02 SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS OR SUBSTITUTED CATHINONES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, distribute, deliver, trade,
barter, or give away any synthetic cannabinoid or substituted cathinones within
the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to offer for sale, distribution,
delivery, trade, or barter any synthetic cannabinoid or substituted cathinones
within the town.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to advertise or display any synthetic
cannabinoid or substituted cathinones within the town.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to claim or represent that a product or
substance is a synthetic cannabinoid or substituted cathinones within the town.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 3-5-12)
§ 133.03 POSSESSION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS OR SUBSTITUTED CATHINONES
PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to possess any synthetic cannabinoid or
substituted cathinones within the town.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 3-5-12)
§ 133.04 LABELING.
   The fact a synthetic cannabinoid or substituted cathinones is being
marketed, sold, distributed, delivered, traded, bartered, or labeled as “Not
for Human Consumption” (or words of similar effect) or identified as having a
lawful use does not exempt a person from enforcement pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 3-5-12)
§ 133.05 CONFISCATION AND DESTRUCTION OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS OR SUBSTITUTED
CATHINONES.
   If any synthetic cannabinoid or substituted cathinone are found in the
possession of any person within the town, said synthetic cannabinoid or
substituted cathinone shall be confiscated by law enforcement as evidence of
violation of this chapter. The confiscated synthetic cannabinoid or substituted
cathinone shall be destroyed by law enforcement after an adjudication of guilt.
Synthetic cannabinoids or substituted cathinones with labels or instructions
indicating they are not intended for ingestion or consumption (that is, “Not
for Human Consumption” or words of similar effect) or identifying a lawful use
are not exempt from confiscation and destruction.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 3-5-12)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of §§
133.01 through
133.04 shall be deemed punishable by a criminal fine of up to $500 and/or 30
days in prison. Each day of a continuing violation of §§
133.01 through
133.04 shall be considered a separate and distinct infraction. Violation of §§
133.01 through
133.04 is hereby further declared to be a public nuisance which may be abated
by the town by way of restraining order, preliminary and permanent injunction,
or any other means permitted by law, and the town may take action to recover
the cost of any nuisance abatement action taken hereunder.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 3-5-12)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNFIT DWELLINGS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.    COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
155.    LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
      
156.    SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Standard Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   Corridor Overlay Design Guidelines adopted
§ 150.01 STANDARD BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Standard Building Code is adopted with the 1983 Revisions of
Amendments thereto, which code is published in book form and which is referred
to, incorporated herein, and made a part hereof for all purposes, a copy of
which code is on file in the office of the Town Clerk and the office of the
building official.
   (B)   In the event any conflict may arise between the provisions of the
Standard Building Code adopted by this section and another state law or town
ordinance, rule or regulation, the provisions of state law and the Code of the
Town shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. 84-02, passed 1-31-84)
§ 150.02 CORRIDOR OVERLAY DESIGN GUIDELINES ADOPTED.
   Upon review of Pendleton development issues, patterns and potential, the
recommendation of the Planning Commission to adopt the Corridor Overlay Design
Guidelines is hereby adopted and enacted in full force and effect within the
municipal limits of the Town of Pendleton.
(Ord. 07-09, passed 7-9-07)
CHAPTER 151: UNFIT DWELLINGS
Section
International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.01   International Property Maintenance Code
General Regulations
   
151.15   Definitions
   
151.16   Standards for determining fitness of dwellings for human habitation
   
151.17   Enforcement
   
151.18   Complaint and grievance procedure
   
151.19   Rights of persons affected by orders
   
151.20   Sale of materials of removed or demolished dwelling
   
151.21   Conflict
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and cited as the International Property
Maintenance Code, as adopted by the Town of Pendleton.
   (B)   The Town Council declares that the provisions and procedures set forth
in the International Property Maintenance Code, as published by the
International Code Council, and any and all amendments, revisions and
supplements thereto, are hereby adopted by the Town of Pendleton, and all model
codes and standards adopted thereunder and incorporated by reference herein,
and shall be applicable to all property, buildings and structures located
within the town limits of Pendleton. Any provision which made reference to this
chapter shall also be deemed, where applicable, to make a reference to the
“International Property Maintenance Code.”
   (C)   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code
are hereby revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: Town of Pendleton.
      (2)   Section 103.5. Insert: Refer to the Town of Pendleton Municipal Fee
Scheduled as periodically published by the Town as well as the Anderson County
Building and Codes fee schedule.
      (3)   Section 112.4. Insert: $100 or more than $500 - Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (4)   Section 302.4. Insert: 18" within 100 feet of any structure
      (5)   Section 304.14. Insert: May 1 - October 1.
      (6)   Section 602.3. Insert: October 1 - April 30.
      (7)   Section 602.4. Insert: October 1 - April 30.
(Ord. 18-07, passed 5-7-2018)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, mobile home or part thereof, used and
occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used and includes any
outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Council or other legislative body charged with governing
a municipality.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Pendleton, South Carolina.
   OWNER. Holder of title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, corporations, and others
who have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession
thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the municipality or state
relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities
concerning dwellings in the municipality.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances
adopted hereunder to exercise the powers prescribed by the ordinances and by
this chapter.
(Ord. 89-02, passed 1-10-89; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 5-22-07)
§ 151.16 STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING FITNESS OF DWELLINGS FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   A dwelling may be determined to be unfit if the public officer finds that
the following conditions exist:
   (A)   Dilapidation,
   (B)   Defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities,
   (C)   Lack of ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities or other conditions
rendering such dwellings unsafe or insanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the
health, safety, or morals or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the
residents.
(Ord. 89-02, passed 1-10-89; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 5-22-07)
§ 151.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   Along with the authority to enforce this chapter, the following powers shall
be included:
   (A)   To investigate dwelling conditions in the town in order to determine
whether dwellings are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations,
provided that such entries are made in such a manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession.
(Ord. 89-02, passed 1-10-89; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 5-22-07)
§ 151.18 COMPLAINT AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the public officer by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the municipality charging that a
dwelling is unfit for human habitation or whenever it appears to the public
officer (as self-evident) that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the
public officer shall if the preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of, and all parties
in interest in, the dwelling a complaint stating the charges in that respect
and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the public officer
or a designated agent at a place therein fixed not less than ten days nor more
than 30 days after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in
interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to
appear in person or otherwise and give testimony at the place and time fixed in
the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the public officer.
   (B)   If, after such notice and hearing, the public officer determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation, the public
officer shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of the
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order.
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling (reasonable
cost being not over 50% of the value), requiring the owner, within the time
specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling as a human
habitation; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling (reasonable
cost being not over 50% of the value), requiring the owner, within the time
specified in the order, to remove or demolish the dwelling.
   (C)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the dwelling, the public officer may cause the
dwelling to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed; that
the public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling
so closed, a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for
human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation
is prohibited and unlawful.”
   (D)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
dwelling, the public officer may cause the dwelling to be removed or
demolished; and
   (E)   The amount of the cost of the repairs or alterations or improvements,
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the public officer shall be a
lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred and shall be
collected in the same manner as town taxes.
   (F)   Complaints or orders issued by a public officer pursuant to this
chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered mail,
but if the whereabouts of the persons is unknown and cannot be ascertained by
the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the public
officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the
complaint or order upon the persons may be made by publishing it once each week
for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper printed and published in the
municipality or, in the absence of such newspaper, in one printed and published
in the county and circulating in the municipality in which the dwellings are
located. A copy of the complaint or order shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected by the complaint or order. A copy of the
complaint or order shall also be filed with the clerk of the county in which
the dwelling is located.
   (G)   Any person affected by an order of a public official may request one
extension of deadline not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 89-02, passed 1-10-89; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 5-22-07)
§ 151.19 RIGHTS OF PERSONS AFFECTED BY ORDERS.
   Any person affected by an order issued by a public officer may within 60
days after the posting and service of the order petition the circuit court for
an injunction restraining the public officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order and the court may, upon the petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the public officer pending the final disposition of the cause.
Hearings shall be had by the court on the petitions within 20 days or as soon
thereafter as possible and shall be given preference over other matters on the
court’s calendar. The court shall hear and determine the issues raised and
shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require. In all
the proceedings, the findings of the public officer as to facts, if supported
by evidence, shall be conclusive. Costs shall be at the discretion of the
court. The remedies herein provided shall be exclusive remedies and no person
affected by an order of the public officer shall be entitled to recover any
damages for action taken pursuant to any order of the public officer or because
of compliance by a person with any order to the public officer.
(Ord. 89-02, passed 1-10-89; Am. Ord. 92-04, passed 2-25-92; Am. Ord. 07-06,
passed 5-22-07)
§ 151.20 SALE OF MATERIALS OF REMOVED OR DEMOLISHED DWELLING.
   If a dwelling is removed or demolished by a public officer, the public
officer shall sell the materials of the dwelling and shall credit the proceeds
of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance
remaining shall be deposited in the circuit court by the public officer, shall
be secured in such manner as may be directed by the court and shall be
disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final
order or decree of the court.
(Ord. 89-02, passed 1-10-89; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 5-22-07)
§ 151.21 CONFLICT.
   Whenever this chapter imposes a higher standard than required by other
resolutions, ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern. When provisions of any other statute impose higher standards,
unless so specified herein, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Ord. 07-06, passed 5-22-07)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Pendleton Zoning Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 84-06, passed 7-2-84; Am. Ord. 97-07, passed 8-12-97; Am. Ord. 98-09,
passed 11-2-98; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-5-01; Am. Ord. 01-03, passed 2-5-01;
Am. Ord. 01-04, passed 2-5-01; Am. Ord. 01-05, passed 2-5-01; Am. Ord. 03-01,
passed 2-3-03; Am. Ord. 03-08, passed 10-6-03; Am. Ord. 03-11, passed 12-1-03;
Am. Ord. 07-11, passed 9-4-07; Am. Ord. 08-03, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 08-05,
passed 7-7-08; Am. Ord. 08-11, passed 9-2-08; Am. Ord. 08-13, passed 11-3-08;
Am. Ord. 08-14, passed 12-2-08; Am. Ord. 08-16, passed 1-5-09; Am. Ord. 09-02,
passed 5-4-09; Am. Ord. 09-03, passed 5-4-09; Am. Ord. 09-08, passed 9-8-09;
Am. Ord. 09-09, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 09-10, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 09-11,
passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 09-16, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 09-17, passed 2-1-10;
Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 11-05,
passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 12-02, passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. 12-08, passed 9-4-12;
Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 13-10, passed 1-6-14; Am. Ord. 16-03,
passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 16-04, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 18-24, passed 12-3-18;
Am. Ord. 21-10, passed 7-12-21; Am. Ord. 22-14, passed 8-1-22; Am. Ord. 22-15,
passed 8-1-22; Am. Ord. 23-05, passed 3-7-23)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Standards
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Purpose and objectives
   
153.04   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.05   Establishment of development permit
   
153.06   Compliance
   
153.07   Interpretation
   
153.08   Partial invalidity and severability
   
153.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.10   Definitions
Administration
   
153.20   Designation of Local Administrator
   
153.21   Adoption of letter of map revisions (LOMR)
   
153.22   Development permit and certification requirements
   
153.23   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator
   
153.24   Administrative procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.30   General standards
   
153.31   Specific standards
   
153.32   Standards for streams without established base flood elevations and/or
floodways
   
153.33   Standards for streams with established base flood elevations but
without floodways
   
153.34   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
Variance Procedures
   
153.40   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
153.41   Right to appeal
   
153.42   Historic structures
   
153.43   Agricultural structures
   
153.44   Considerations
   
153.45   Findings
   
153.46   Floodways
   
153.47   Conditions
Legal Status Provisions
   
153.50   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
153.51   Effect upon outstanding building permits
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL STANDARDS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
    The legislature of the state has in S.C. Code Titles 5 and 6, and
amendments thereto, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Pendleton,
South Carolina does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Furthermore, these flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health,
minimize property damage, and encourage appropriate construction practices to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that
uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction. Uses of the
floodplain which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or
erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion are
restricted or prohibited. These provisions attempt to control the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are
involved in the accommodation of flood waters, and control filling, grading,
dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion.
Additionally, the chapter prevents or regulates the construction of flood
barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood
hazards to other lands.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to protect human life and health,
to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas, and to insure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area. The provisions of the chapter are intended to minimize damage
to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
telephone, and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in the floodplain, and
prolonged business interruptions. Also, an important floodplain management
objective of this chapter is to minimize expenditure of public money for costly
flood control projects and rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding.
   (C)   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform
vital natural functions such as temporary storage of floodwaters, moderation of
peak flood flows, maintenance of water quality, groundwater recharge,
prevention of erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations,
recreational opportunities, and aesthetic quality. These functions are best
served if floodplains are kept in their natural state. Wherever possible, the
natural characteristics of floodplains and their associated wetlands and water
bodies should be preserved and enhanced. Decisions to alter floodplains,
especially floodways and stream channels, should be the result of careful
planning processes that evaluate resource conditions and human needs.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.04 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the town as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study, dated December 21, 2017 with
accompanying maps and other supporting data that are hereby incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon annexation any special flood hazard areas identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study for the
unincorporated areas of Anderson County, with accompanying map and other data
are adopted by reference and declared part of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.06 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.07 INTERPRETATION.
    In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state law. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions, shall prevail.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.08 PARTIAL INVALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this chapter is declared invalid, the remainder of the
chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in force.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Structures that are located on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a
minimal investment, may not be used for human habitation and be designed to
have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are
detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure. Additions to existing buildings
shall comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to
whether the addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or
load-bearing wall is provided between the addition and the existing building,
the addition(s) shall be considered a separate building and must comply with
the standards for new construction.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes in
which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. Agricultural structures are not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Local Administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building that is below grade on ail sides.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT. Development that is critical to the community's public
health and safety, is essential to the orderly functioning of a community,
store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water- reactive materials, or house
occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or injury.
Examples of critical development include jails, hospitals, schools, fire
stations, nursing homes, wastewater treatment facilities, water plants, and
gas/oil/propane storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
wails, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before May 15, 1980.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before April 28. 1980.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency which contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without
sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any
material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water,
including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not flood-resistant.
Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable
flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation
from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally unstable are
not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after
submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2,
Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated 8/08, and available from
the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced
therein, are acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of flood plain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI)) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places;
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      (2)   Some structures or districts listed on the state or local
inventories MAY NOT be "historic" as cited above, but have been included on the
inventories because it was believed that the structures or districts have the
potential for meeting the historic structure criteria of the DOI. In order for
these structures to meet NFIP historic structure criteria, it must be
demonstrated and evidenced that the South Carolina Department of Archives and
History has individually determined that the structure or district meets DOI
historic structure criteria.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Applies to all new and renewed flood
insurance policies effective on and after June 1, 1997. The NFIP shall enable
the purchase of insurance to cover the cost of compliance with land use and
control measures established under Section 1361 of the National Flood Insurance
Act of 1968. It provides coverage for the payment of a claim to help pay for
the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws or
ordinances after a flood event in which a building has been declared
substantially or repetitively damaged.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items that can withstand exposure to the elements and have low flood
damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant or breakaway
material, void of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be
temperature controlled. If the area is located below the base flood elevation
in an A, AE and A1-A30 zone it must meet the requirements of §
153.30(D). If the area is located below the base flood elevation in a V, VE and
V1-V30 zone it must meet the requirements of this chapter.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). An elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any of the exterior walls of a building or proposed building walls.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For the purpose of this chapter, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or
other datum, to which the base flood elevations show on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) are shown.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929.  As corrected in 1929,
elevation reference points set by National Geodetic Survey based on mean sea
level.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) OF 1988. Vertical control, as corrected
in 1988, used as the reference datum on Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structure for which the start of construction commenced
after April 28, 1980. The term also includes any subsequent improvements to
such structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or before April 28,
1980.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal dune occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. A building covered by a contract for flood insurance that
has incurred flood-related damages on two occasions during a ten- year period
ending on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in which the
cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the building at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316 OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968. The act provides
that no new flood insurance shall be provided for any property found by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to have been declared by a state or local
authority to be in violation of state or local ordinances.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (P.L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for footings, piers or
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, including a
gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made facility or infrastructure that
is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Such repairs may be undertaken successively and their costs counted
cumulatively. Please refer to the definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project of improvement to a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions (does not include
American with Disabilities Act compliance standards); or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (3)   Permits shall be cumulative for a period of five years. If the
improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated
with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be
utilized to determine whether substantial improvement will occur.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from a term or terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.20 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator or his/her designee is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.21 ADOPTION OF LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS (LOMR).
   All LOMRs that are issued in the areas identified in§
153.04 are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.22 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Development permit. Application for a development permit shall be made
to the Local Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities. The development permit may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing: the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; and the location of fill materials, storage areas, and drainage
facilities. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Plot plan. A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour
or a statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain must be provided by
the development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within
the floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either the duties and responsibilities of the
Local Administrator set forth in §
153.23 or the standards for subdivision proposals set forth in §
153.31 and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations
and/or floodways set forth in §
153.32. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by it. The plot
plan must show the floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the floodway identified pursuant to either the duties or
responsibilities of the Local Administrator set forth in §
153.21 or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
153.31(L) and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations
and/or floodways set forth in §
153.32.
      (2)   Base flood elevation provided. Where base flood elevation data is
provided as set forth in §
153.04 or §
153.23 the application for a development permit within the flood hazard area
shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor of all new and substantially improved structures, and
         (b)   If the structure will be flood- proofed in accordance with the
non-residential construction requirements of §
153.31(B) the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure
will be floodproofed.
      (3)   Base flood elevation not provided. Where base flood elevation data
is not provided as set forth in §
153.04 or §
153.23, then the provisions in the standards for streams without estimated base
flood elevations and/or floodways set forth in §
153.32 must be met.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourse. Where any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development, the application for a
development permit shall include a description of the extent of watercourse
alteration or relocation, an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream, and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Certifications.
      (1)   Floodproofing certification. When a structure is floodproofed, the
applicant shall provide certification from a registered, professional engineer
or architect that the non-residential, floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in the non-residential construction requirements of §
153.31(B).
      (2)   Certification during construction. A lowest floor elevation or
floodproofing certification is required after the lowest floor is completed. As
soon as possible after completion of the lowest floor and before any further
vertical construction commences, or floodproofing by whatever construction
means, whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Local Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
lowest floor, or floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable, as built, in
relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer
and certified by it. Any work done prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holder's risk. The Local Administrator shall review the
floor elevation survey data submitted. The permit holder immediately and prior
to further progressive work being permitted to proceed shall correct
deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the survey or failure
to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work
order for the project.
      (3)   V-Zone certification. When a structure is located in Zones V, VE,
or V1-30, certification shall be provided from a registered professional
engineer or architect, separate from submitted plans, that new construction or
substantial improvement meets the criteria for the coastal high hazard areas
outlined in this chapter.
      (4)   As-built certification. Upon completion of the development a
registered professional engineer, land surveyor or architect, in accordance
with South Carolina law, shall certify according to the requirements of this
chapter that the development is built in accordance with the submitted plans
and previous pre-development certifications.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.23 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to the following.
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Requirement of federal and/or state permits.  Review proposed
development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (C)   Watercourse alterations.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources, Land, Water, and Conservation Division, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   In addition to the notifications required watercourse alterations
per division (C)(1) above, written reports of maintenance records must be
maintained to show that maintenance has been provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished. This maintenance must consist of a comprehensive program of
periodic inspections, and routine channel clearing and dredging, or other
related functions. The assurance shall consist of a description of maintenance
activities, frequency of performance, and the local official responsible for
maintenance performance. Records shall be kept on file for FEMA inspection.
      (3)   If the proposed project will impact the configuration of the
watercourse, floodway, or base flood elevation for which a detailed Flood
Insurance Study has been developed, the applicant shall apply for and must
receive approval for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency prior to the start of actual construction.
      (4)   Within 60 days of completion of an alteration of a watercourse,
referenced in the certification requirements of §
153.22(B)(4) above the applicant shall submit as-built certification, by a
registered professional engineer, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Floodway encroachments. Prevent encroachments within floodways unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.31(E) are met.
   (E)   Adjoining floodplains. Cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to the management of adjoining floodplains and/or flood-related erosion
areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.
   (F)   Notifying adjacent communities. Notify adjacent communities prior to
permitting substantial commercial developments and large subdivisions to be
undertaken in areas of special flood hazard and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.
   (G)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Obtain and review actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with administrative procedures outlined in §
153.22(B) or the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined in this chapter
      (2)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the floodproofing certification outlined in §
153.22(A).
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the non-residential construction requirements outlined in §
153.31(B).
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined
in this chapter.
   (H)   Map interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this subchapter.
   (I)   Prevailing authority. Where a map boundary showing an area of special
flood hazard and field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations for flood
protection elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table,
etc.) shall prevail. The correct information should be submitted to FEMA as per
the map maintenance activity requirements outlined in §
153.31(G).
   (J)   Use of best available data. When base flood elevation data or floodway
data has not been provided in accordance with §
153.04, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize best available base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, including data developed pursuant to the standards for subdivision
proposals outlined in §
153.31(L), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. Data from
preliminary, draft, and final Flood Insurance Studies constitutes best
available data from a federal, state, or other source. Data must be developed
using hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirement of NFIP approved model.
If an appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 CFR Ch. 1, Part 67.5
and 67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (K)   Special flood hazard area/topographic boundaries conflict. When the
exact location of boundaries of the areas special flood hazards conflict with
the current, natural topography information at the site the property owner may
apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) by FEMA. The Local
Administrator in the permit file will maintain a copy of the Letter of Map
Amendment issued from FEMA.
   (L)   On-site inspections. Make on-site inspections of projects in
accordance with the administrative procedures outlined in §
153.24.
   (M)   Administrative notices. Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work
orders, revoke permits and take corrective actions in accordance with the
administrative procedures in §
153.24.
   (N)   Records maintenance. Maintain ail records pertaining to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection,
   (O)   Annexations and detachments. Notify the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for
the National Flood Insurance Program within six months, of any annexations or
detachments that include special flood hazard areas. The community must
incorporate applicable maps from surrounding jurisdictions into this chapter
within 90 days of date of the annexation.
   (P)   Federally funded development. The President issued Executive Order
11988, Floodplain Management May 1977. E.O. 11988 directs federal agencies to
assert a leadership role in reducing flood losses and losses to environmental
values served by floodplains. Proposed developments must go through an eight-
step review process. Evidence of compliance with the executive order must be
submitted as part of the permit review process.
   (Q)   Substantial damage determination. Perform an assessment of damage from
any origin to the structure using FEMA's Residential Substantial Damage
Estimator (RSDE) software to determine if the damage equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   (R)   Substantial improvement determinations.
      (1)   Perform an assessment of permit applications for improvements or
repairs to be made to a building or structure that equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started. Cost
of work counted for determining if and when substantial improvement to a
structure occurs shall be cumulative for a period of five years. If the
improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated
with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be
utilized to determine whether substantial improvement will occur.
      (2)   The market values shall be determined by one of the following
methods:
         (a)   The current assessed building value as determined by the County
Assessor's office or the value of an appraisal performed by a licensed
appraiser at the expense of the owner within the past six months; or
         (b)   One or more certified appraisals from a registered professional
licensed appraiser in accordance with the laws of South Carolina. The appraisal
shall indicate actual replacement value of the building or structure in its
pre-improvement condition, less the cost of site improvements and depreciation
for functionality and obsolescence.
         (c)   Real estate purchase contract within six months prior to the
date of the application for a permit.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.24 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Local Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work
as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising
this power, the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The stop-work
order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work. The stop-
work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons
for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits. The Local Administrator may revoke and require
the return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing,
stating the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any
substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications;
for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws;
or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections. The Local Administrator and each member of his/
her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of
the Department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected. When the Local Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his/her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law on the property
he owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action.  If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Administrator shall give him written notice, by certified or registered mail to
his last known address or by personal service, that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Local Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Local Administrator may issue such order
to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Administrator shall find that the building or
development is in violation of this chapter, he/she shall make an order in
writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation within such
period, not less than 60 days, the Administrator may prescribe; provided that
where the Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, he may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as
may be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall hear an
appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke
the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in the discretion of the court.
   (J)   Denial of flood insurance under the NFIP. If a structure is declared
in violation of this chapter and the violation is not remedied then the Local
Administrator shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to
initiate a Section 1316 of the National Flood insurance Act of 1968 action
against the structure upon the finding that the violator refuses to bring the
violation into compliance with the chapter. Once a violation has been remedied
the Local Administrator shall notify FEMA of the remedy and ask that the
Section 1316 be rescinded.
   (K)   The following documents are incorporated by reference and may be used
by the Local Administrator to provide further guidance and interpretation of
this chapter as found on FEMA's website at www.fema.gov:
      (1)   FEMA 55 Coastal Construction Manual;
      (2)   All FEMA Technical Bulletins;
      (3)   All FEMA Floodplain Management Bulletins;
      (4)   FEMA 348 Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damage;
      (5)   FEMA 499 Home Builder's Guide To Coastal Construction Technical
Fact Sheets.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD
HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Development may not occur in the floodplain where alternative locations
exist due to the inherent hazards and risks involved. Before a permit is
issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new structures cannot be located
out of the floodplain and that encroachments onto the floodplain are minimized,
in all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Reasonably safe from flooding. Review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (C)   Flood-resistant materials and equipment. All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with flood- resistant materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance with Technical
Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, dated 8/08, and
available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Minimize flood damage. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages,
   (E)   Critical development. Shall be elevated to the 500-year flood
elevation or be elevated to the highest known historical flood elevation (where
records are available), whichever is greater. If no data exists establishing
the 500-year flood elevation or the highest known historical flood elevation,
the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis
that generates 500-year flood elevation data,
   (F)   Utilities. Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall
be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of the base flood plus two feet.
   (G)   Water supply systems. All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system.
   (H)   Sanitary sewage systems.
      (1)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding,
   (I)   Gas or liquid storage tanks. All gas or liquid storage tanks, either
located above ground or buried, shall be anchored to prevent floatation or
lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (J)   Alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements. Any alteration,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement to a structure that is in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the requirements of new
construction as contained in this chapter. This includes post-FIRM development
and structures.
   (K)   Non-conforming buildings or uses.  Non-conforming buildings or uses
may not be enlarged, replaced, or rebuilt unless such enlargement or
reconstruction is accomplished in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. Provided, however, nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of an existing building or structure located
totally or partially within the floodway, provided that the bulk of the
building or structure below base flood elevation in the floodway is not
increased and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets
all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (L)   American with Disabilities Act (ADA). A building must meet the
specific standards for floodplain construction outlined in §
153.31, as well as any applicable ADA requirements. The ADA is not
justification for issuing a variance or otherwise waiving these requirements.
Also, the cost of improvements required to meet the ADA provisions shall be
included in the costs of the improvements for calculating substantial
improvement.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard ( Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, V, and
VE) where base flood elevation data has been provided, as set forth in §
153.04 or outlined in the duties and responsibilities of the local
administrator set forth in §
153.23, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation. No
basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements
of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the elevated buildings
requirements in division (D) below.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet, whichever is greater,
above the level of the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the
elevated buildings requirements in division (D) below. No basements are
permitted. Structures located in A zones may be floodproofed in lieu of
elevation provided that all areas of the structure below the required elevation
are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water,
using structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered, professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in the floodproofing certification
requirements in §
153.22(B)(1). A variance may be considered for wet-floodproofing agricultural
structures in accordance with the criteria outlined in §
153.43. Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of §
153.43 must meet the non- residential construction standards and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Structures that are floodproofed are
required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual exercise. The
Local Administrator must approve the maintenance plan and notification of the
annual exercise shall be provided to it.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than two feet above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions for residential construction in division (A) above
must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated
no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation, and be securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement in accordance with Section 40-29-10 of the South Carolina Manufactured
Housing Board Regulations, as amended. Additionally, when the elevation
requirement would be met by an elevation of the chassis at least 36 inches or
less above the grade at the sight, reinforced piers or other foundation
elements of at least equivalent strength shall support the chassis. When the
elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height an engineering
certification is required.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Local Administrator and the local
Emergency Preparedness Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas that are usable solely for
the parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other
than a basement, and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to
preclude finished space and be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet all of the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different walls having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (b)   The bottom of each opening must be no more than one foot above
the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the opening.
         (c)   Only the portions of openings that are below the base flood
elevation (BFE) can be counted towards the required net open area.
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      (2)   Hazardous velocities. Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in
the design of any foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for
debris flow exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five feet
per second), foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should be
considered so that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      (3)   Enclosures below BFE.
         (a)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (b)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms, except to enclose a single storage
area and must be void of utilities except for essential lighting as required,
and cannot be temperature controlled.
         (c)   One wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground
fault interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions (A), (B)
and (C) above.
         (d)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions (A), (B)
and (C) above should be of flood-resistant materials.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.04 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and
potential projectiles and has erosion potential. The following provisions shall
apply within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood. Such certification and technical data
shall be presented to the Local Administrator.
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must be obtained upon completion of
the proposed development.
      (2)   If division (E)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
153.30 through
153.34.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of division (C) above are met.
      (4)   Permissible uses within floodways may include: general farming,
pasture, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry, wildlife sanctuary,
game farm, and other similar agricultural, wildlife, and related uses. Also,
lawns, gardens, play areas, picnic grounds, and hiking and horseback riding
trails are acceptable uses, provided that they do not employ structures or
fill. Substantial development of a permissible use may require a no-impact
certification. The uses listed in this subsection are permissible only if and
to the extent that they do not cause any increase in base flood elevations or
changes to the floodway configuration.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is:
         (a)   On wheels or jacking system;
         (b)   Attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and
security devices; and
         (c)   Has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either be:
         (a)   On site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet the
development permit and certification requirements of the general standards set
forth in §
153.30 and manufactured homes standards in division (C) above.
   (G)   Map maintenance activities. The National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) requires flood data to be reviewed and approved by FEMA. This ensures
that flood maps, studies and other data identified in §
153.04 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data. The following map maintenance
activities are identified.
      (1)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
         (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations
or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
            1.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            2.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
            3.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
            4.   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with division (L) below.
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical
data, required in accordance with this division, prepared in a format required
for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) or Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map
revisions shall also be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (c)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter
of Map Revision (CLOMR) prior to the issuance of a floodplain development
permit for:
            1.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
            2.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation
by more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations
but no floodway.
         (d)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR) from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this
division.
         (e)   Conditional Letter of Map revisions (CLOMR) and/or Letters of
Map Revision (LOMR) must go through the variance process outlined in §§
153.40 through
153.47.
      (2)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator
may request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that
does not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations,
such as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the local jurisdiction
and may be submitted at any time.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   A detached accessory structure or garage, the cost of which is
greater than $3,000, must comply with the requirements as outlined in FEMA's
Technical Bulletin 7-93 Wet Floodproofing Requirements or be elevated in
accordance with divisions (A) or (D) above or dry floodproofed in accordance
with division (B) above.
      (2)   If accessory structures of $3,000 or less are to be placed in the
floodplain, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including work, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be installed in accordance with §
153.30(F); and
         (f)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below base flood elevation in conformance with division (D)(1) above;
         (g)   Accessory structures shall be built with flood-resistant
materials in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, dated 8/08, and available from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable
flood-resistant materials.
   (I)   Swimming pool utility equipment rooms.  If the building can not be
built at or above the BFE, because of functionality of the equipment then a
structure to house the utilities for the pool may be built below the BFE with
the following provisions:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for accessory structures in division (H)
above.
      (2)   The utilities must be anchored to prevent flotation and shall be
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   (J)   Elevators.
      (1)   Install a float switch system or another system that provides the
same level of safety necessary for all elevators where there is a potential for
the elevator cab to descend below the BFE during a flood per FEMA's Technical
Bulletin 4-93 Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood
Hazard Areas.
      (2)   All equipment that may have to be installed below the BFE such as
counter weight roller guides, compensation cable and pulleys, and oil buffers
for traction elevators and the jack assembly for a hydraulic elevator must be
constructed using flood-resistant materials where possible per FEMA's Technical
Bulletin 4-93 Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood
Hazard Areas.
   (K)   Fill. An applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative
to raising the building to meet the residential and non-residential
construction requirements of divisions(A) or (B) above, and that the amount of
fill used will not affect the flood storage capacity or adversely affect
adjacent properties. The following provisions shall apply to all fill placed in
the special flood hazard area:
      (1)   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance
with the requirements in division (E)(1) above.
      (2)   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits.
      (3)   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. A registered
professional geotechnical engineer may use dredged material as fill only upon
certification of suitability. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps, and sanitary
fills are not permitted in the floodplain.
      (4)   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-
698, and its suitability to support structures certified by a registered,
professional engineer.
      (5)   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two horizontal to one
vertical. Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in
erosion.
      (6)   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage
problems on neighboring properties.
      (7)   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high
hazard areas.
      (8)   Will meet the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01,
Ensuring That Structures Built On Fill in or Near Special Flood Hazard Areas
Are Reasonable Safe from Flooding.
   (L)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed development shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in division (G) above when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is
completed that generates base flood elevations.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.32 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard (Zones A and V) established
in §
153.04, are small streams where no base flood data has been provided or where
no floodways have been identified. The following provisions apply within such
areas:
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within 100 feet of the
stream bank unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (C)   If division (A) above is satisfied and base flood elevation data is
available from other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements
within such areas shall comply with all applicable flood hazard provisions of
§§
153.30 through
153.34 and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with elevations
established in accordance with Article §
153.23(K)
   (D)   Data from preliminary, draft, and final Flood Insurance Studies
constitutes best available data. Refer to FEMA Floodplain Management Technical
Bulletin 1 -98 Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available Data. If an
appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 CFR Ch. 1, Part 67.5 and
67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (E)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source one of the following methods may be used to determine a
BFE For further information regarding the methods for determining BFEs listed
below, refer to FEMA's manual Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate
Zone A Areas:
      (1)   Contour interpolation.
         (a)   Superimpose approximate Zone A boundaries onto a topographic map
and estimate a BFE.
         (b)   Add one-half of the contour interval of the topographic map that
is used to the BFE.
         (c)   Data extrapolation. A BFE can be determined if a site within 500
feet upstream of a reach of a stream reach for which a 100-year profile has
been computed by detailed methods, and the floodplain and channel bottom slope
characteristics are relatively similar to the downstream reaches.
         (d)   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations. Perform hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine BFEs using FEMA approved methods and
software.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.33 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT FLOODWAYS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
but no floodway is identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in
the FIS.
   (A)   In areas where non-encroachment zones are shown no encroachments
including fill, new construction, substantia! improvements, or other
development shall be permitted unless certification with supporting technical
data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.34 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.04 are areas designated as shallow flooding. The following provisions shall
apply within such areas:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor elevated to the depth number specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, in feet, above the highest adjacent grade. If
no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be elevated at least three
feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to the depth number specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, in feet, above the highest adjacent grade. If no
depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be elevated at least three
feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Be completely flood-proofed together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities to or above that level so that any space below that level
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   All structures on slopes must have drainage paths around them to guide
water away from the structures.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the Town of Pendleton, shall
hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.41 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any taxpayer may
appeal such decision to the Court.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.42 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair of rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.43 AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued to wet floodproof an agricultural structure provided
it is used solely for agricultural purposes. In order to minimize flood damages
during the base flood and the threat to public health and safety, the structure
must meet all of the conditions and considerations of §
153.47, this section, and the following standards.
   (A)   Use of the structure must be limited to agricultural purposes as
listed below:
      (1)   Pole frame buildings with open or closed sides used exclusively for
the storage of farm machinery and equipment;
      (2)   Steel grain bins and steel frame corncribs;
      (3)   General-purpose barns for the temporary feeding of livestock that
are open on at least one side;
      (4)   For livestock confinement buildings, poultry houses, dairy
operations, and similar livestock operations, variances may not be issued for
structures that were substantially damaged. New construction or substantial
improvement of such structures must meet the elevation requirements of §
153.31(B).
   (B)   The agricultural structure must be built or rebuilt, in the case of an
existing building that is substantially damaged, with flood-resistant materials
for the exterior and interior building components and elements below the base
flood elevation.
   (C)   The agricultural structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. All of the structure's components
must be capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including
hydrostatic, buoyancy, hydrodynamic, and debris impact forces. Where flood
velocities exceed five feet per second, fast-flowing floodwaters can exert
considerable pressure on the building's enclosure walls or foundation walls.
   (D)   The agricultural structure must meet the venting requirement of §
153.31(D).
   (E)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be located
above the base flood elevation (BFE) so that they are contained within a
watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of resisting damage during
flood conditions in accordance with §
153.31(E).
   (F)   The agricultural structure must comply with the floodway encroachment
provisions of §
153.32(E).
   (G)   Major equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected. Such
protection may include protective watertight floodproofed areas within the
building, the use of equipment hoists for readily elevating contents,
permanently elevating contents on pedestals or shelves above the base flood
elevation, or determining that property owners can safely remove contents
without risk to lives and that the contents will be located to a specified site
out of the floodplain in accordance with the temporary development provisions
of §
153.32(K).
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.44 CONSIDERATIONS.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the following.
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage, and
the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development, and the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   (I)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges; and
   (J)   Agricultural structures must be located in wide, expansive floodplain
areas, where no other alternative location for the agricultural structure
exists. The applicant must demonstrate that the entire farm acreage, consisting
of a contiguous parcel of land on which the structure is to be focated, must be
in the special flood hazard area and no other alternative locations for the
structure are available.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.45 FINDINGS.
   Findings listed above shall be submitted to the Appeal Board, in writing,
and included in the application for a variance. Additionally, comments from the
Department of Natural Resources, Land, Water and Conservation Division, State
Coordinator's Office, must be taken into account and included in the permit
file.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.46 FLOODWAYS.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result unless a CLOMR is
obtained prior to issuance of the variance. In order to insure the project is
built in compliance with the CLOMR for which the variance is granted the
applicant must provide a bond for 100% of the cost to perform the development.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.47 CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter. The
following conditions shall apply to all variances.
   (A)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the structure
in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
   (E)   The Local Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) upon request.
   (F)   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or other
development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Violations must be corrected in accordance with §
153.24(E).
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 153.50 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted October 6, 2003, as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued there under are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the Town of Pendleton enacted on October 6, 2003, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein, are repealed.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.51 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building Inspector or
his authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter; provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of 60 days subsequent to passage of this chapter, construction
or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more that $500
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 17-19, passed 12-14-17)
CHAPTER 154: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   The Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 154.01 THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The 2022 Comprehensive Plan update is hereby adopted by reference and made
a part of this code, the same as if it were set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 6-5-06; Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 9-25-06; Am. Ord. 12-09,
passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 2-4-13; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 6-3-13;
Am. Ord. 16-06, passed 4-4-16; Am. Ord. 23-14, passed 9-5-23)
CHAPTER 155: LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Land development regulations adopted by reference
§ 155.01 LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The Land Development Regulations Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code, the same as if it were set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 06-14, passed 9-25-06; Am. Ord. 09-04, passed 5-4-09; Am. Ord. 12-07,
passed 9-4-12; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 7-1-13; Am. Ord. 23-05, passed 3-7-23)
CHAPTER 156: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Purpose and scope
   
156.03   Permitted use; application process and fees   
   
156.04   Action on permit application
   
156.05   Requirements for small wireless facilities in covered areas
   
156.06   Effect of permit
   
156.07   Removal, relocation or modification of a small wireless facility in
the ROW
   
156.08   Attachment to town-owned utility poles in the covered areas
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ANTENNA. Communication equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, energy, electrical, plumbing,
mechanical, gas, and fire codes in S.C. Title 6, Chapter 9, local amendments to
those codes authorized by state law, and local codes or ordinances which impose
requirements defined in §
156.05 of this chapter including objective design and concealment standards to
regulate location, context, material, color, stealth and concealment standards
on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application to a town and is a wireless
services provider or a wireless infrastructure provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant for a permit to:
      (1)   Collocate small wireless facilities; or
      (2)   Construct, install, maintain, operate, replace or modify a utility
pole or wireless support structure.
   CABLE, COMMUNICATIONS, FIBER OR ELECTRIC EASEMENT. An easement, granted to a
cable or video service provider, a communications service provider (including
without limitation a telephone utility), a fiber optics cable services
provider, or an electric services provider created or authorized by state law
to provide such services, that runs parallel to and abuts or within a rights-
of-way and is occupied by existing utility poles or wireless support structures
carrying electric distribution lines, wires, cable, conduit, fiber optic cable
for telecommunications, cable or electric service or supporting municipal
street lights, or security lights. The term cable, communications, fiber or
electric easement excludes easements for service drops or lines connecting the
customer's premises to the cable, communications, fiber or electrical provider.
   COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace one or
more wireless facilities on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing wireless
support structure or utility pole located in covered areas within the
jurisdiction of the town. COLLOCATION. Has a corresponding meaning.
   COVERED AREAS. The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
RIGHTS-OF-WAY, ROW, TOWN RIGHTS-OF-WAY, PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY, and/or CABLE,
COMMUNICATIONS, FIBER OR ELECTRIC EASEMENT as those terms are defined herein.
   DAY. Calendar day unless the last day for the town or an applicant to take
action under this chapter ends on a weekend, holiday, or time when all but town
emergency services are closed due to weather or some unforeseen situation.
   DECORATIVE POLE. A utility pole specially designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes and on which no appurtenances or attachments, other than specially
designed informational or directional signage or a temporary holiday or special
event attachments, have been placed or are permitted to be placed according to
nondiscriminatory municipal practices.
   DESIGN DISTRICT. An area that is zoned, or otherwise designated by municipal
ordinance, and for which the town maintains and enforces unique design and
aesthetic standards on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area that is zoned or otherwise designated as a
Historic District under municipal, state or Federal law and for which the town
maintains and enforces unique design and aesthetic standards on a uniform and
nondiscriminatory basis.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that meets the following
qualifications:
      (1)   Is not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in
width, and 12 inches in height; and
      (2)   Any exterior antenna is no longer than 11 inches.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization, including the town.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY or ROW or TOWN RIGHTS-OF-WAY or PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. That
area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street, sidewalk, alley
dedicated to, managed or controlled by the town, county or the State of South
Carolina, but not including a Federal interstate highway, in the town.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume, or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
   TOWN-OWNED POLE.
      (1)   A utility pole owned or operated by the town in covered areas,
including a utility pole that provides lighting or traffic control functions,
or other law enforcement functions, including light poles, traffic signals, and
structures for signage; and
      (2)   A pole or similar structure owned or operated by the town in a
covered area that supports only wireless facilities. The term does not include
a utility pole owned or operated by and accounted for as an asset of a
municipal electric utility.
   TRANSMISSION POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part to carry electric transmission (as opposed to distribution) lines.
   UNDERGROUND DISTRICT. An area that is designated by ordinances, zoning
regulations, state law, private deed restrictions, and other public or private
restrictions, that prohibit installing above ground structures in a covered
area and for which the town maintains and enforces standards on a uniform and
nondiscriminatory basis.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
for the purpose of carrying electric distribution lines or cables or wires for
telecommunications, cable or electric service, or for lighting, traffic control
devices, traffic control or directional signage, or a similar function
regardless of ownership, including town-owned poles. Such term shall not
include structures supporting only wireless facilities, nor shall it include
wireless support structures.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. 
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless services
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications;
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   The term includes small wireless facilities. The term does not
include the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the equipment
is collocated, wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly
associated with, an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the state, that builds, installs or
maintains utility poles, wireless communication transmission equipment,
wireless facilities or wireless support structures.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided using licensed or unlicensed
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
delivered to the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole or,
other existing or proposed structure designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless facilities. Such term shall not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide policies and procedures for
the placement of small wireless facilities in covered areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to establish uniform standards
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Prevention of interference with the use of streets, sidewalks,
alleys, parkways, traffic light poles or other light poles, and other public
ways and places;
      (2)   Prevention of visual and physical obstructions and other conditions
that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevention of interference with other facilities and operations of
facilities lawfully located in covered areas or public property;
      (4)   Preservation of the character of neighborhoods where facilities are
installed;
      (5)   Preservation of the character of historic structures, or historic
neighborhoods, including but not limited to such structures or neighborhoods
listed on the National Register of Historic Places or locally designated
historic districts; and
      (6)   Facilitation of the rapid deployment of small wireless facilities
to provide the citizens with the benefits of advanced wireless services.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
§ 156.03 PERMITTED USE; APPLICATION PROCESS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permitted use and consent collocation of a small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or a new or modified
utility pole or wireless support structure installed in a covered area shall be
a permitted use, except in supplemental review districts where such facilities
are a conditional use, subject to administrative review, conditions and other
requirements in §
156.05. In accord with Article VIII, Section 15 of the State Constitution and
related municipal code and ordinance provisions, the town consents to the use
of public rights-of-way by permit holders acting in compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall place a small wireless facility in a
covered area without first filing a small wireless facility application and
obtaining a permit, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Permit applications. All small wireless facility applications filed
pursuant to this chapter shall be on a form, paper or electronic, as required
by the town. The applicant may designate portions of its application materials
that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
“proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials
accordingly, and the town shall endeavor to protect materials so designated
from public disclosure to the fullest extent permitted by state law.
   (D)   Application requirements. The small wireless facility permit
application shall be made by the applicant, or its duly authorized
representative as noted in a notarized statement from a person with the
applicant with authority to make such an authorization, and shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number and e-mail address;
      (2)   Facility owner's name, address, telephone number and email address,
if different from applicant;
      (3)   Intended facility use: owner operated or owner leased capacity;
      (4)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
filing of the application;
      (5)   A general description of the proposed scope of work for the
collocation of the small wireless facility. The scope and detail of such
description shall be appropriate to the nature and character of the work to be
performed, with special emphasis on those matters, including but not limited to
sub-surface utilities, likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (6)   Identification of any consultant that is acting on behalf of the
applicant and that is authorized to speak with the town, or a designee of the
town, on the area of consultation for the applicant even if the applicant
cannot be available;
      (7)   Verification from an appropriate representative of the applicant
that the small wireless facility shall comply with all applicable codes;
      (8)   Verification of payment of the annual municipal consent or
administrative fee for telecommunications companies to use public rights-of-
ways pursuant to S.C. § 58-9-2230;
      (9)   Verification of local business license, if applicable;
      (10)   Evidence the applicant is duly authorized to do business in South
Carolina;
      (11)   Evidence the applicant has received any necessary certificate of
public convenience and necessity or other required authority from the South
Carolina Public Service Commission or the Federal Communications Commission or
evidence that it is not required;
      (12)   A copy of an approved South Carolina Department of Transportation
encroachment permit and all documents required by SCDOT as part of the
encroachment permit application, if the proposed location is within a SCDOT
right-of-way; and
      (13)   If the proposed location is outside of a SCDOT right-of-way, a
statement that the applicant has a lease, attachment agreement or other
authorization from the owner of the utility pole or structure proposed for
collocation.
   (E)   Routine maintenance and replacement. An application shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of a small wireless facility with another small
wireless facility that is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, and
height; or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro-wireless facilities that are strung on cables between existing utility
poles and/or wireless support structures in compliance with the National
Electrical Safety Code by a wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider that is authorized to occupy the public rights-of-way
and that is remitting a consent, franchise, or administrative fee pursuant to
S.C. Code Ann. § 58-9-2230.
   (F)   Information updates. Any amendment to information contained in a
permit application shall be submitted in writing to the town within ten
business days after the change necessitating the amendment.
   (G)   Consolidated application. An applicant seeking to collocate multiple
small wireless facilities may, at the applicant's discretion, file a
consolidated application and receive a single permit for up to 20 small
wireless facilities. Provided, however, the town's denial of any site or sites
within a single application shall not affect other sites submitted in the same
application. The town shall grant a permit for any and all sites in a single
application that it does not deny subject to the requirements of this section.
   (H)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by law, and except as to
telecommunication companies exempted pursuant to S.C. Code § 58-9-2230, all
applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by a fee
of $100 for each small wireless facility. For clarity, any applicant that pays
either a franchise, consent fee, or administrative fee pursuant to the
requirements of S.C. Code § 58-9-2230 shall not be required to pay any building
permit fee, zoning permit fee, encroachment fee, degradation fee, or any other
fee assessed on a telecommunications provider for its occupation of or work
within the ROW.
   (I)   Interference with public safety equipment. A small wireless facility
shall be operated and maintained in a manner that does not interfere with
public safety (police, traffic control, fire and emergency services) equipment.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
§ 156.04 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review of small wireless facility applications. The town shall review
the application for a small wireless facility permit for conformity with
applicable requirements of this chapter, and shall issue a permit on
nondiscriminatory terms and conditions subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Within ten days of receiving an application, the town must
determine and notify the applicant whether the application is complete; or if
an application is incomplete, the town must specifically identify the missing
information.
      (2)   Make its final decision to approve or deny the application within
60 days of submission of a completed application.
      (3)   Notify the applicant in writing of its final decision, and if the
application is denied, specify the basis for a denial, including citations to
Federal, state or local code provisions and/or statutes on which the denial was
based.
      (4)   Notwithstanding an initial denial, the applicant may cure the
deficiencies identified by the town and resubmit the application within 30 days
of the denial, and the town shall approve or deny the revised application
within 30 days of receipt of it. The subsequent review by the town shall be
limited to the deficiencies cited in the original denial.
   (B)   Review deadline. If the town fails to act on an application within the
60 day review period (or within the 30 day review period for an amended
application), the applicant may provide notice that the time period for acting
has lapsed and the application is then deemed approved.
   (C)   Review of eligible facilities requests. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this chapter, the town shall approve and may not deny
applications that constitute eligible facilities requests for modification of
an eligible support structure that does not substantially change the physical
dimensions of such structure as provided in 47 CFR1.40001, within 60 days
according to the procedures established under 47 CFR 1.40001(c).
   (D)   Compensation. Subject to the limitations set forth in §
156.03(H) herein, every permit shall include as a condition the applicant's
agreement to pay such lawful franchise fees, business license taxes,
administrative fees and consent fees as are permitted under applicable South
Carolina and Federal law. The applicant shall also pay all applicable ad
valorem taxes, service fees, sales taxes, or other taxes and fees as may now or
hereafter be lawfully imposed on other businesses within the town.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
§ 156.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN COVERED AREAS.
   (A)   Administrative review. The town shall perform an administrative review
of permit applications including the location or installation of new, modified,
or replacement utility poles and/or wireless support structures and the
attachment of wireless facilities and equipment on utility poles or wireless
support structures. Review factors, in addition to location, shall include the
size, shape, color, texture, and materials of the structures and attachments.
      (1)   The town may require a proposed wireless facility be designed to
not be significantly more readily apparent or plainly visible (to a reasonable
person of ordinary sensibilities) from covered areas than existing utility
structures, poles and equipment located within 500 linear feet on the same
covered area as the subject utility pole or wireless support structure.
      (2)   Where small wireless facilities are determined to be appropriate,
the use of reasonable stealth and concealment treatments, low profile equipment
and control boxes, and screening may be required to avoid significant negative
impacts on the character and visual aesthetics of the area. However, such
requirements may be waived by the town upon a showing that the particular
location of a small wireless facility does not warrant stealth or concealment
treatments or imposes an excessive expense. The waiver shall be granted or
denied within 45 days after the date of the request.
      (3)   Supplemental review districts identified in §
156.05(C) and listed in Appendix A, as found attached to Ord. 18-22 may be
subject to a higher level of review.
   (B)   Maximum size of permitted use.
      (1)   The height of an antenna of a collocated small wireless facility
shall be limited to the greater often ten feet above:
         (a)   The height of an existing or modified utility pole or wireless
support structure; or
         (b)   The height of a new utility pole or wireless support structure
as provided in division (2) below.
      (2)   The height of a new or modified utility pole, or wireless support
structure is limited to the greater of:
         (a)   The tallest utility pole, excluding transmission poles, or
wireless support structure located in the same covered area, measured from
grade, in place within 500 linear feet on the same covered area as the subject
utility pole or wireless support structure as of the effective date of this
chapter; or
         (b)   In the absence of any such utility pole or wireless support
structure, either:
            1.   Forty feet in any area zoned exclusively for single family
residential use, unless a waiver is granted, by Town Council or their designee,
for good cause shown; or
            2.   Fifty feet in any other area.
            3.   Collocation is not allowed on a decorative pole less than 20
feet in height.
   (C)   Supplemental review districts. 
      (1)   Collocated small wireless facilitates and new or modified utility
poles or wireless support structures located in supplemental review districts
shall be a conditional use and subject to the design and aesthetic requirements
and review processes for structures specified in this chapter establishing the
supplemental review district(s) in addition to the requirement of this chapter,
provided that the town will work in good faith with the applicant to
accommodate the installation of collocated small wireless facilities and new or
modified utility poles or wireless support structures in supplemental review
districts to the fullest extent practicable. The town reserves its right to
maintain and implement the following types of supplemental review districts.
         (a)   Underground districts. A wireless services provider or a
wireless infrastructure provider shall comply with nondiscriminatory
requirements that prohibit electric utilities, telecommunications or cable
providers from installing above-ground structures in the covered area in these
districts. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use or replacement of
existing utility poles or wireless support structures in underground districts
for the collocation of small wireless facilities subject to administrative
review by the Zoning Administrator, appropriate design and concealment and a
finding that such use does not increase the height by more than three feet.
         (b)   Historic and design districts. As a condition for approval of
new small wireless facilities or new wireless support structure in a historic
district or a design district, the town may require that a wireless services
provider or a wireless infrastructure provider comply with the design and
aesthetic standards of the historic district or design district to minimize the
impact to the aesthetics in a historic district or on a design district's
decorative poles. If design and concealment treatments are determined on review
by the town to be insufficient to mitigate harm to the historic district or
design district, the application may be denied.
      (2)   This section may not be construed to limit a municipality's
authority to enforce historic preservation zoning regulations consistent with
the preservation of local zoning authority under 47 U.S.C. Section 332(c)(7),
the requirements for facility modifications under 47 U.S.C. Section 1455(a), or
the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (54 U.S.C. Section 300101 et
seq.), and the regulations adopted to implement those laws.
   (D)   Appeals, special exceptions and variance requirements.
      (1)   Appeals of administrative decisions and requests for special
exceptions and variances from the provisions of this chapter, when strict
application would result in an unnecessary hardship or in the inability to
deploy needed small wireless facilities, shall be heard and decided by the
Board of Zoning Appeals or equivalent board for architectural, design or
historical district reviews. An applicant seeking a special exception to
construct a new decorative pole, utility pole or other wireless support
structure to collocate a small wireless facility in an Underground District
shall demonstrate, including certification through an engineer, that it has
diligently attempted to locate the proposed decorative pole, utility pole,
wireless support structure, or small wireless facility outside of the
underground district and that placement of the decorative pole, utility pole,
wireless support structure, or small wireless facility within the underground
district is necessary to provide the needed wireless coverage or capacity, and
one or more of the following conditions exist supporting a special exception:
         (a)   No existing utility pole or wireless support structure is
located within the location search radius or to the extent a utility pole or
wireless support structure is located within the search radius, such utility
pole or wireless support structure:
            1.   Is not available for collocation under commercially reasonable
rates, terms, and conditions;
            2.   Cannot accommodate the collocation of the small wireless
facility and meet the technical requirements necessary to deliver adequate
wireless service coverage or capacity; or
            3.   Would require modifications exceeding the three feet height
limitation imposed in division (C)(1).
         (b)   The only available option to deliver adequate wireless service
coverage or capacity in the search radius requires modifications to an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure exceeding the three feet height
limitation imposed in division (C)(1) or the installation of a new utility pole
or wireless support structure for collocation of a small wireless facility; or
         (c)   The applicant has demonstrated other circumstances that, in the
reasonable discretion of the board, etc., warrant a special exception or
variance.
      (2)   The applicant shall abide by the design, stealth and concealment
treatments imposed as conditions of the special exception.
   (E)   Existing supplemental review districts. Supplemental review districts
approved by the town as of the effective date of this chapter are listed in
Appendix A, as found attached to Ord. 18-22. The code provisions authorizing
the district, applicable design guidelines or manual, review authority and
appeal jurisdiction are specified in Appendix A, as found attached to Ord. 18-
22. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or otherwise limit the town from
establishing additional supplemental review districts, provided however, that
facilities and structures for which a permit was approved or deemed approved
pursuant to this chapter prior to the establishment of the additional
supplemental review district remain subject to the provisions of this chapter,
including routine maintenance and replacement of those facilities and
structures as set out in §
156.03(E)(1) and (2) of this chapter, and not to any provisions otherwise
applicable to the additional supplemental review district. If a wireless
services provider or a wireless infrastructure provider voluntarily replaces
such facilities in a manner that does not comply with §
156.03(E)(2) of this chapter, or if a wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider voluntarily relocates such facilities, such replacement
or relocation is subject to the then-existing provisions and requirements of
the additional supplemental review district.
   (F)   Repair of damage. A wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider shall repair all damage to a town right-of-way directly
caused by the activities of the wireless services provider or the wireless
infrastructure provider, while occupying, installing, repairing, or maintaining
wireless facilities, wireless support structures, town utility poles, or
utility poles and to return the right-of-way to its functional equivalence
before the damage. If the wireless services provider or the wireless
infrastructure provider fails to make the repairs required by the town within
45 days after written notice, unless the town and the wireless services
provider or the wireless infrastructure provider agree in writing to a longer
time period, the town may undertake those repairs and charge the applicable
party the reasonable and documented cost of the repairs. The town may maintain
an action to recover the costs of the repairs.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
§ 156.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted. No property right or other interest created. A
permit from the town authorizes an applicant to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with the chapter, and does not create a property right
or grant any authority whatsoever to the applicant to impinge upon the rights
of others who may already have an interest in the covered area.
   (B)   Duration. Unless construction has actually begun and is diligently
pursued to completion at that point, no permit for construction issued under
this chapter shall be valid for a period longer than twelve months unless both
town and applicant agree to a reasonable extension and all required fees are
paid for the term regardless of construction. The inability of the applicant to
obtain electrical power or backhaul transport services to serve the wireless
facility such that it is operational within the twelve months due to the action
or inaction of third-party utility providers shall not result in the invalidity
of the permit.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
§ 156.07 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY IN
THE ROW.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the town, a
wireless services provider or a wireless infrastructure provider shall, at its
own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently disconnect, remove,
relocate, change or alter the position of any wireless facilities or wireless
support structures within the rights-of-way whenever the town, in its
reasonable discretion, has determined that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration, is reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance,
or installation of any town improvement in or upon, or the operations of the
town in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The town retains the
right to cut or move any wireless facility or wireless support structure
located within its rights-of-way as the town, in its reasonable discretion, may
determine to be necessary, appropriate, or useful in response to any public
health or safety emergency. If circumstances permit, the town shall notify the
wireless services provider or the wireless infrastructure provider and provide
opportunity to move its own wireless facilities or wireless support structure
prior to the town cutting or removing a wireless facility or wireless support
structure and the town shall notify the wireless services provider or the
wireless infrastructure provider after cutting or removing a wireless facility.
   (C)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a wireless facility or
wireless support structure within the town rights-of-way, the wireless services
provider or the wireless infrastructure provider shall notify the town within
90 days of such abandonment. Following receipt of such notice the town may
direct the wireless services provider or the wireless infrastructure provider
to remove all or any portion of the wireless facility or wireless support
structure if the town, in its sole discretion, determines that such removal
will be in the best interests of the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (D)   Abandonment by inaction. At any point when a wireless services
provider or a wireless infrastructure provider fails to pay any required fee,
or annual payment to the town, and fails to respond within 60 days to a written
inquiry from the town as to whether the wireless services provider or the
wireless infrastructure provider intends to continue to operate a wireless
facility or wireless town support structure, for whatever reason, the wireless
facility shall be deemed abandoned and the town may, at its sole option, remove
all or any portion of the wireless facility or wireless support structure, or
take other action as authorized by law, including recovery of actual costs
incurred in removing the wireless facility or wireless support structure.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
§ 156.08 ATTACHMENT TO TOWN-OWNED UTILITY POLES IN THE COVERED AREAS.
   (A)   Annual rate. The rate to place a small wireless facility on a town-
owned pole in covered areas shall be $50 per year per wooden pole or $200 per
year for all other town-owned poles. This rate is in addition to reimbursement
to the town for any expenses for make-ready work. The town reserves the right
to require a pole attachment agreement to further define the terms and
conditions of attachments to town-owned poles. The rates specified in this
section shall not apply to poles owned, or operated and accounted for as an
asset of, a municipal electric utility.
   (B)   Cease payment. A wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider is authorized to remove its facilities at any time from
a town-owned pole in covered areas and cease paying the annual rate to the town
as of the next due date for payment following the removal.
   (C)   Make-ready. For town-owned utility poles in covered areas, the
applicant shall reimburse the town for expenses for any reasonable make-ready
work. The town shall provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work
necessary to enable the pole to support the requested small wireless facility,
including pole replacement if necessary, within 60 days after receipt of a
completed request. Make-ready work including any pole replacement shall be
completed within 60 days of written acceptance of the good faith estimate by
the wireless services provider or the wireless infrastructure provider.
   (D)   Municipal utilities excluded. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to affect the authority of a municipal electric utility to deny,
limit, restrict, or determine the rates, fees, terms, and conditions for the
use of or attachment to a utility pole owned, or operated and accounted for as
an asset of, a municipal electric utility.
(Ord. 18-22, passed 11-5-18)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   ZONING CHANGES
      
V.   BONDS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
91-  6-10-91  1.639 acres, more or less, as shown on slide 183, page 9, as recorded with
08            the Clerk of Court for Anderson County. Zoned Areawide Business (AB).
95-  8-22-95  A portion of 16.415 acres, more or less, [Tract “B”] of Magnolia Point
09            Subdivision as recorded with the Clerk of Court for the county.
02-  2-4-02   Property located at 918 South Mechanic Street, tax map #40- 13-02-009-013
01            and zoned Areawide Business District (AB).
02-  5-22-02  Additional .016 acre tract located at 918 South Mechanic Street, tax map
06            #40-13-02-0009- 013C and zoned Areawide Business District (AB).
02-  1-6-03   Property located on Pioneer Road Lot 13, containing approximately .549
13            acres and zoned Areawide Business District (AB).
02-  1-6-03   Additional .049 acre tract located at 918 South Mechanic Street, tax map
14            #40-13-02-0009- 013B and zoned Areawide Business District (AB).
05-  1-11-05  Property located on Lebanon Road known as Pendleton Station and zoned
01            Planned Development Mixed Use.
05-  1-11-05  Property located on Westinghouse Road known as Ridge Spring Development
02            and zoned Planned Development Mixed Use.
09-  12-7-09  Property located on Cherry Street Extension consisting of 38.6 acres, tax
14            map #062-00-08-009 and zoned Planned Development Mixed Use.
12-  6-11-12  Property owned by Durham Brothers, Inc., along State Highway 76 north of
06            Westinghouse Road, to be zoned AB Areawide Business.
15-           Changing corporate limits and annexing a portion of tax map #041-03-03-
06   11-2-15  021, 041-03-03-020, 041-03-03-019, and 041-03-03-003 to be rezoned AB,
              Areawide Business.
16-           Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 44.59 acres shown as
09   5-10-16  Tract 1 on a plat made by Nu-South Surveying Inc. as shown on an
              attachment to Ord. 16-09.
16-           Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 80.43 acres shown as
10   5-10-16  Tract 2 on a plat made by Nu-South Surveying Inc. as shown on an
              attachment to Ord. 16-10.
16-           Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 67.11 acres shown as
11   5-10-16  Tract 3 on a plat made by Nu-South Surveying Inc. as shown on an
              attachment to Ord. 16-11.
16-           Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 53.19 acres shown as
12   5-10-16  Tract 4 on a plat made by Nu-South Surveying Inc. as shown on an
              attachment to Ord. 16-12.
16-           Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 8.10 acres shown as
13   5-10-16  Tract 6 on a plat made by Nu-South Surveying Inc. as shown on an
              attachment to Ord. 16-13.
16-           Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 128.04 acres shown as
14   5-10-16  Tract 5 on a plat made by Nu-South Surveying Inc. as shown on an
              attachment to Ord. 16-14.
16-  5-10-16  Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 0.062 acres on a plat
15            made by Nu-South Surveying Inc. as shown on an attachment to Ord. 16-15.
16-  10-3-16  Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 1.75 acres on a plat
23            prepared by R.D. Garrison, RLS # 3972, identified as TMS # 062-02-04-016.
16-           Changing corporate limits and annexing approximately 0.280 acres on a plat
24   11-7-16  prepared by R. Jay Cooper, P.E. and L.S. # 4682, identified as TMS #
              410204002.
19-           Changing corporate limits and annexing one acre on property located on US
12   1-6-20   Hwy. 76 owned by Lester and Phillip Morgan, identified as TMS # 41-03-03-
              023.
19-  11-4-19  Changing corporate limits and annexing property owned by Pendleton Land
13            Holdings LLC aka Ortec, identified as TMS # 63-00-06-001.
21-  1-4-21   Changing corporate limits and annexing 0.85 acres owned by DJ McDougald
02            Enterprises LLC, identified as TMS # 41-00-02-024.
              Changing corporate limits and annexing 45.14 acres on property located at
21-  8-2-21   Hwy 187 and Bickford Circle owned by Melvin Williams and Manning Wheaton,
11            identified as TMS #s 42-00-01-012, 42-00-01-006, 42-00-01-026, and 42-00-
              01-015.
22-           Changing the corporate limits and annexing property located on Lebanon
01   1-3-22   Road owned by Bobby Ethridge and Sandra Reeves, identified as TMS #s 40-
              00-02-003 and 40-00-02-004.
22-           Changing the corporate limits and annexing property located in an
11   6-6-22   unincorporated portion of Anderson County owned by Richard K. Bennett,
              identified as TMS # 42-00-01-022.
23-  2-2-     Changing the corporate limits and annexing 1.73 acres of property located
02   23    off Highway 76, owned by Richard K. Bennett, identified as TMS # 41-02-04-
              004.
24-  2-13-24  Changing the corporate limits and annexing property located at 916 South
01            Mechanic Street, identified as TMS # 40-13-02-007.
24-  11-5-24  Changing the corporate limits and annexing property located at 915 Pioneer
15            Road, identified as TMS # 40-13-02-008.
             
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
84-  8-6-84   Sale/purchase of water system.
10
86-           Sale of property located off East Queen Street containing 1.77 acres of land,
07   12-9-86  more or less, purchased by Town Council in 1961 and used as part of the town's
              sewer lagoon.
90-  11-14-89 Issuance of industrial revenue bonds for the Clemson University Research
01            Foundation.
98-  12-7-98  Authorizing the town to enter into a lease/purchase plan for a police sedan.
10
99-  1-3-00   Creating a joint municipal water system in coordination with other water
11            providers, authorized to negotiate the purchase of Duke's Water System.
01-  1-7-02   Mutual aid agreement for catastrophic disaster response and recovery.
11
02-  2-4-02   Adopting ASCAP license agreement.
02
02-  3-11-02  Authorizing execution of agreement for membership in Anderson County Joint
04            Municipal Water System.
02-  6-3-02   Authorizing new municipal agreement with Duke Energy Corporation.
08
05-  12-5-05  Amendment to Water Sale and Purchase Agreement with Anderson Regional Joint
13            Water System.
06-  6-30-06  Allowing an intergovernmental service contract with Anderson County Sheriff’s
09            Department to provide general law enforcement services.
09-  5-18-09  Amending a municipal agreement with Duke Energy Corporation.
05
              Authorizing execution of an intergovernmal agreement with Anderson County,
14-  6-2-14   South Carolina, related to the creation of a joint county industrial and
03            business park for Tetramer Technologies, LLC and South Mechanic Street
              Properties, LLC.
16-           Authorizing the town to enter into an infrastructure agreement for construction
07   5-10-16  of certain infrastructure in support of a multi-use development to be developed
              and to be annexed into the town.
17-  10-2-17  Authorizing the lease of the lower level of the Guard House to the Pendleton
12            Historic Foundation, a 501(C)(3) non-profit organization.
18-  3-5-     Amending the infrastructure agreement between the town and Clemson Grove
02   18    Investments, Pacolet Grove Holdings, and Dalton Road Holdings.
19-           Authorizing the town to enter into a development agreement for provision of
10   10-7-19  certain infrastructure and other benefits in support of an economic development
              project to be developed in and to be annexed into the town.
19-  12-2-19  Consenting to the inclusion of certain property in a multi-county industrial
14            park.
19-           Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental agreement with
15   11-4-19  Anderson County, South Carolina, related to the creation of a joint county
              industrial and business park - CMP Cheney Mill LLC.
19-  12-2-19  Authorizing an economic development agreement between the town and CMP Cheney
16            Mill LLC.
20-           Authorizing the town to execute and deliver an officer guidance line of credit
13   12-7-20  in the amount of not exceeding $500,000 between the town and the lessor thereof
              to defray the cost of acquiring certain equipment.
22-           Authorizing the town to execute and deliver an equipment lease purchase
17   9-7-22   agreement, 2022, in the amount of not exceeding $153,095 between the town and
              the lessor thereof to defray the cost of acquiring certain equipment.
23-  2-2-23   Authorizing an infrastructure agreement between the town and Clemson Grove
01            Investments, LLC.
23-  5-2-23   Authorizing the town to enter into an intergovernmental agreement relating to
08            South Carolina Local Revenue Services.
23-           Authorizing the town to enter into a development agreement for the provision of
12   8-22-23  certain infrastructure and other benefits in support of an economic development
              project.
23-           Authorizing the town to execute and deliver an equipment lease purchase
17   11-7-23  agreement, 2023, in the amount of not exceeding $408,607.32 with the Peoples
              Bank.
24-           Authorizing the town to execute and deliver a base lease and purchase and
02   2-13-24  occupancy agreement in an amount not exceeding $7,000,000 with Pendleton
              Municipal Facilities Corporation.
24-  6-4-24   Amending Ord. 17-12 and authorizing the lease of town-owned property to the
06            Pendleton Historic Foundation.
24-           Authorizing the town to execute and deliver an equipment lease purchase
13   10-1-24  agreement, 2024, in the amount of not exceeding $138,026.96 between the town
              and the lessor thereof to defray the cost of acquiring certain equipment.
24-  10-14-24 Authorizing the conveyance and receipt of certain real property with Pendleton
14            South, LLC.
             
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
80-01    2-11-80     Granting a cable television franchise to Fort Hill Cable
                     TV, Inc.
                     Transfer of the cable television franchise from Video
86-01    3-31-86     Properties Ltd. to Clemsen-Seneca Cable TV Limited
                     Partnership.
                     Adopting FCC Rate Regulations in regulation of the basic
93-11    10-12-93    rates of Northland Cable TV and any other cable television
                     system operating in the town.
                     Renewing the cable television franchise with Colemson-
95-08    8-22-95     Seneca Cable TV Limited Partnership for an additional 15
                     years.
                     Granting South Carolina Telecommunications Group Holdings,
16-02    4-4-16      LLC, d/b/a Spirit Communications a telecommunications
                     franchise.
18-12    6-4-18      Establishing a municipal agreement with Duke Energy
                     Corporation for the town to increase the franchise fee.
                     Renewing the municipal service agreement for the provision
22-18    10-3-22     of electric service by Duke Energy Carolina, LLC for the
                     town.
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
84-  8-14-84  Rezoning of certain property on South Mechani c Street.
11
84-  9-17-84  Portion of property on west side of US Highway 76 rezoned from R- 1, Residenti
12            al, to AB, Area Wide Business.
85-  10-8-85  Property adjoining South Mechani c Street rezoned from an Agricultu ral-Forest
06            District to a Planned Develop ment Residenti al Zone.
86-  3-31-86  Winston, Thompso n, Giles, Williford , and Riverside Streets zoned R- 4 to permit
01            the placemen t of mobile homes.
86-  5-20-86  Old Hunter's Store Warehou se rezoned to Central Business (CB).
02
86-  9-22-86  Lot 6, Oak View Subdivisi on rezoned to R-1 Low Density Residenti al District.
05
              Swaney Lane, the left side of Riverside Street which includes Riverside Homes,
86-  12-9-86  and any lots bordering the left side of Riverside Street, but excludin g any
06            property bordering West Queen Street, and excludin g any property belongin g to
              School District No. 4, rezoned from R-1 zone to R-4 zone.
87-  10-13-87 Portion of property on South Mechani c Street rezoned from AF (Agricult ural
04            Forest) to AB (Area- Wide Business ) and from AF to MF (Multi- family).
88-  4-28-88  Moving back CO zone on portion of property on Major Street and allowing the lots
02            to be used as R-4.
88-  7-5-88   Property at 171 East Main Street rezoned to CB.
05
88-           Portion of the property along Cherry Street rezoned from Residenti al (R-3) to
06   10-11-88 Neighbor hood Commer cial (N- C). Robinson Road and portion of property on
              Stephens Road rezoned from R-2 to R-4 to allow the placemen t of mobile homes.
88-  10-11-88 Portion of property located on Micasa Drive rezoned from R-2 to PDR.
07
89-  1-30-89  Portion of property on Cherry Street rezoned from R-2 to R-4.
03
89-  11-13-90 Portion of property on South Mechani c Street rezoned from R-1 to A-B.
09
90-  6-11-90  .81 acre located in Deed Book No. 20V, page 778, recorded in Anderso n County be
03            rezoned to R-3.
91-  3-12-91  Property located at 435 Seawrigh t Circle rezoned from R-2 to AF.
03
91-           Winston Street, Thompso n Street, Green Street, Giles Street (excludin g the
04   4-9-91   first three lots on the south side), Williford Street, and the north side of
              Riverside Street rezoned from R-4 to R-2.
91-  5-6-91   Portion of property on Belmina Street rezoned from R-2 to R-4.
05
91-  6-10-91  Property located at the corner of Seawrigh t Circle and Long Road consistin g of
07            16 acres rezoned from AF to PDR.
91-  8-7-91   Property located at 600 Burrell Street rezoned from CO to R-4.
10
92-  1-23-92  Portion of property on Micasa Drive rezoned from A-F to R-1.
03
92-  6-9-92   Portion of property on North Cherry Street Extensio n rezoned from A-F to R-2.
06
92-  4-14-92  Portion of property on Town Street rezoned from R-2 to R-4.
08
93-  3-17-93  Property located at 236 Church Street rezoned from R-3 to R-4.
05
93-  5-11-93  Property located at 212 East Main Street from R-1 to R-2.
07
93-  10-12-93 Property located at 204 East Main Street from R-1 to R-2.
10
94-  8-9-94   Portion of property on North Cherry Street Extensio n from R-2 to A- F.
07
95-  8-22-95  Property belongin g to Arthur Overgaag , located on Micasa Drive, from R-1 to
11            PDR.
95-  8-22-95  Property belongin g to Wallace Kelly and Joe Riggins, located off Central Road,
12            from A-F to R-3.
97-  7-8-97   .29 acres of property, triangular shape, bound on both sides by West Queen
05            Street, and is known as the Keese Barn Property.
00-  6-5-00   Rezoning the followin g parcels from R-2 to A-F.
09
            TMS # 0062 02 01 002 - 1.73 acres
            TMS # 0062 02 01 005 - .75 acres
02-  11-4-02  Property owned by Bilal Farhan located at the corner of East Queen Street and
12            North Depot Street from R-2 to NC.
05-  6-21-05  Property located at South Mechani c Street known as Spring Ridge Develop ment
08            from A-F to PD- MU.
05-  1-3-06   Property owned by Roy E. Garris, Jr. located at Seawrigh t Drive from A-F to R-2.
14
06-  4-3-06   Property owned by Scott Ward located at Micasa Drive, Lot 28 from R-2 to MF.
01
06-  9-13-06  Property located at South Mechani c Street known as Ridge Springs Subdivisi on to
11            PD-MU.
06-  10-2-06  Property known as Rennaiss ance Place Subdivisi on from A-F to PDR.
15
06-  10-2-06  Property known as The Preserve at Pendleto n Subdivisi on located on Woody Road,
17            from A-F to PDR.
07-  4-2-07   Property known as North Mechani c Street from R-2, Low Density Residenti al to
01            NC, Neighbor hood Commer cial.
07-  4-2-07   Property known as Riverside Street from R1 and R2, Low Density Residenti al to R-
02            3, Medium Density Residenti al.
07-  6-4-07   Property located on West Queen Street from PDR to R-1.
04
07-  11-5-07  Property located at 938 East Queen Street from A-F to PD-R.
12
08-  2-4-08   3.62-acre property located at 702, 704 and 706 South Mechani c Street from A-F to
01            AB.
10-  4-20-10  Establish ing district regulatio ns for property on Cherry Street Extensio n to
02            be known as “The Gardens at Town Creek.”
10-  6-2-10   Allowing public parking for five years on property located on South Mechani c
05            Street, part of “The Falls at Meehan” planned develop ment.
10-  10-4-10  74-acre property located on Lebanon Road from PD-MU to AF.
06
11-  4-4-11   .55-acre property located on Highway 76 and Pioneer Road from R-1 to AB.
02
12-  4-2-12   8.37 acres on Riverside Street owned by J. Wilson, known as The Cottages at
06            Pendleto n, from R-3 to MF.
13-  5-6-12   Major condition al change for property on South Mechani c Street, zoned PD-MU,
02            part of the planned develop ment of The Falls at Meehan.
13-  1-6-14   Rezoning propertie s located at 176 E. Main Street and 186 E. Main Street from
09            CB, Central Business District to NC, Neighbor hood Commer cial District.
15-           Amending Ord. 10-05, pertainin g to “the Falls at Meehan, ” allowing for the use
02   6-1-15   of the existing public parking for a period of no more than four years beginnin g
              June of 2015, on property located on South Mechani c Street.
15-           Amending the Planned Develop ment called “The Falls at Meehan” zoned (PD- MU)
05   7-6-15   allowing for the use of single family, multifam ily, and commerc ial use on the
              property located on South Mechani c Street and Westing House Road.
16-  6-6-2016 Amending the official zoning map of Pendleto n regarding the rezoning of 6.38
20            acres at the corner of Greenvill e Street and Crensha w Street from AF to MF.
17-  2-6-17   Amending the official zoning map of Pendleton regarding the zoning of 1.75 acres
01            at 1012 Cherry Street Extension to R-3.
17-  2-6-17   Amending the official zoning map of Pendleton regarding the zoning of .280 acres
02            at 103 Jonathan Street to AB.
17-  11-6-17  Amending the official zoning map of Pendleton regarding .33 acres at 240 North
13            Mechanic Street to R-3.
17-  11-6-17  Amending the official zoning map of Pendleton regarding 20 acres near the corner
14            of Dalton Drive and SC 187 (Wild Hog Road) from AB to R-3.
17-  1-2-18   Amending the official zoning map of Pendleton regarding 20.22 acre parcel off
16            Dalton Road in the Grove Development to R-3.
17-  1-2-18   Amending The Falls at Meehan planned development to accept a major change to the
17            development.
17-  1-2-18   Amending The Preserve at Pendleton planned development located on Woody Road to
18            accept a major change.
18-  4-2-18   Amending the zoning of 14.14 acres near the corner of Dalton Drive and SC 187,
03            (Wild Hog Road), to Multi-Family District (MF).
18-  4-2-18   Amending the zoning of 41.36 acres near the corner of Dalton Drive and SC 187,
04            (Wild Hog Road) to be zoned Conservative Open Space (C-O).
18-  4-2-18   Amending Ord. 06-15 known as “Pendleton Cottages” formerly known as “Renaissance
05            Place” and to accept change to the development located on East Queen Street.
18-  8-6-     Amending the zoning of 36.41 acres near the corner of SC 187 (Wild Hog Road) and
17   18    Boscobel Road to be zoned Multi-Family (MF).
18-  10-1-18  Amending the zoning of 33.14 acres between S.C. 287 (Wild Hog Road) and Dalton
19            Road    to be zoned Multi-Family (MF).
19-  3-4-19   Amending the zoning of 47.29 acres located on Dalton Drive from Multi-Family (MF)
01            to Planned Development Residential (PDR).
19-  3-4-19   Amending The Falls at Meehan planned development to accept a major change to the
02            development (Ord. 05-02).
19-  4-1-19   Amending the zoning of 15 acres located on Greenville Street from Agriculture/
03            Forestry (AF) to Planned Development Residential (PDR).
19-  5-6-19   Amending Heritage Place planned development to accept a major change to the
05            development (Ord. 05-12).
19-  6-3-19   Amending the zoning of 1.3 acres at 804 S. Mechanic Street from Area Wide
08            Business (AB) to Multi-Family Residential (MF).
19-  11-4-19  Amending the zoning of 14.1 acres located in the Grove on S.C. 187 from Area Wide
11            Business (AB) to Light Industrial (LI).
20-  2-10-20  Amending the zoning of 24.34 acre tract of property located in the Grove on S.C.
02            187 from Area Wide Business (AB) to Medium Density Residential (R-3).
20-  6-8-     Amending the zoning of 94.57 acres of property located at 500 Westinghouse Road
04   20    to Light Industrial (LI).
20-  6-8-20   Amending the zoning of 1 acre located at 5740 U.S. Highway 76 to Area Wide
05            Business (AB).
20-  9-8-20   Amending the zoning of 3.12 acres located in “The Grove” off Dalton Drive from
11            Area Wide Business (AB) to Flexible Review District (FRD).
21-           Amending the zoning of 76.5 acres off Thomas Street known as the Village Hills
01   1-4-21   Mobile Home Park from Planned Development Mobile Home (PDMH) to Flexible Review
              District (FRD).
21-  4-5-     Amending the zoning of property located at 1001 South Mechanic Street to Area
03   21    Wide Business (AB).
21-  10-4-21  Amending the zoning of 45.14 acres located at Highway 187 and Bickford Circle to
12            Conservation Open Space (CO).
22-  3-7-22   Setting permanent zoning for the annexed property of 4.0 acres on Lebanon Road to
03            Low-Density Residential (R-2).
22-  4-4-22   Amending the zoning of 45.14 acres located at Highway 187 and Bickford Circle to
05            Flexible Review District (FRD).
22-           Amending the zoning of property located in and around South Depot Street and
19   10-3-22  Cherry Street and the North Elm Street and East Main Street area to Neighborhood
              Commercial (NC).
22-  12-5-22  Amending the zoning of 28.18 acres located at 540 East Main Street to Flexible
21            Review District (FRD).
23-  7-11-23  Amending the zoning of 204 East Main Street from Low-Density Residential (R2) to
10            Neighborhood Commercial (NC).
23-  9-5-23   Setting permanent zoning for property located off of Highway 76 having TMS # 41-
13            02-04-004 of Areawide Business (AB).
23-  11-7-23  Amending the zoning of 3.683 acres known as Tract 3-A1A having TMS # 41-00-04-003
16            from Areawide Business (AB) to Multi-Family (MF).
24-  6-4-24   Setting permanent zoning for property located at 916 South Mechanic Street having
04            TMS # 40-13-02-007 of Areawide Business (AB).
24-           Amending the zoning of property located off Brown Road and Central Road having
08   7-2-24   TMS#s 39-06-05-022, 39-06-06-004, 39-06-06-003, 39-00-04-006 and 40-04-03-006
              from Agriculture Forest (AF) to Low-Density Residential (RS).
             
 
TABLE V: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     A general obligation bond in the principal amount of
95-18    10-18-95    $175,000 in order to purchase a garbage truck, roll carts
                     and bulk containers.
99-10    10-4-99     A general obligation bond in the principal amount of
                     $400,000 for renovations for a new Town Hall.
10-08    12-6-10     Waterworks and sewer system revenue refunding bond in
                     amount of $434,000.
18-09    5-7-18      Waterworks and sewer system revenue bond, series 2018 in
                     an amount not to exceed $1,700,000.
18-10    5-7-18   A general obligation bond, series 2018, not to exceed
                     $700,000.
22-22    11-7-22     Waterworks and sewer system revenue bond, series 2022, not
                     to exceed $825,000.
24-09    8-6-24      Waterworks and sewer system revenue bonds, general bond
                     ordinance.
24-10    8-6-24      Waterworks and sewer system revenue bond, series 2024, not
                     to exceed $15,000,000.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. CITE CODE SECTION
S.C. CITE                            CODE SECTION
4-9-30 et seq.                       130.04
5-5-12                               33.01
Title 5                              153.01
5-7-30                               10.99,
                                     96.01
5-15-20                              33.01
5-15-61                              33.03
5-15-100                             33.04
5-15-125                             33.05
5-15-145                             33.10
Title 6                              153.01
Title 6, Ch. 9                       156.01
6-1-400 et seq.                      110.19
6-1-410                              110.11,
                                     110.16
Title 7                              33.04
Title 8, Ch. 13                      34.04
7-13-190                             33.05
8-13-100 et seq.                     34.08
12-21-2720(A)(1), (A)(2)             Ch. 110, Appendix A
12-21-2720(A)(3)                     Ch. 110, Appendix A
12-21-2720(B)                        Ch. 110, Appendix A
12-21-2728                           Ch. 110, Appendix A
12-21-2746                           Ch. 110, Appendix A
12-23-210                            Ch. 110, Appendix A
12-49-210 - 12-49-300                35.02
12-51-10 et seq.                     35.01
12-51-10                             35.01
12-51-20                             35.01
12-51-40                             35.02 
12-51-50                             35.02
12-51-60                             35.02
12-51-70                             35.02
12-51-90                             35.02
12-51-100                            35.02
12-51-110                            35.02
12-51-120                            35.02
12-51-130                            35.02
12-56-10 et seq.                     34.20
14-24-45                             31.04
14-25-5 et seq.                      31.01
14-25-25                             31.02
14-25-65                             31.05
14-25-75                             31.05
14-25-95                             31.07
14-25-105                            31.07
14-25-125                            31.08
14-25-135                            31.08
14-25-155                            31.08
16-5-50                              131.04
16-11-700                            130.05
16-17-530                            131.01
20-7-2700                            96.11
Title 20, Ch. 7, Art. 13, Subart. 11 96.11
23-31-205 et seq.                    93.17
34-67-30(4)                          130.99
Title 38, Ch. 7                      Ch. 110, Appendix A
                                     110.02,
Title 38, Chs. 7 and 45              110.11,
                                     110.16
Title 38, Ch. 45                     Ch. 110, Appendix A
38-7-20                              110.02
44-7-130                             96.11
44-55-10 et seq.                     50.035
44-67-10 et seq.                     130.04
44-67-10                             130.02
44-95-10                             96.11
44-95-20(4)                          96.11
47-1-80                              90.18
47-5-10 et seq.                      90.06
47-60 - 47-63                        30.01
Ch. 56                               70.025
56-3-1960                            70.121
56-5-110                             70.002
56-7-80                              30.03
                                     110.02,
Title 58, Ch. 9, Art. 20             110.11,
                                     110.16
58-9-2200                            Ch. 110, Appendix A
58-9-2230                            156.03
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
77-01       2-9-76      30.01
77-02       - -77       30.02
77-09       - -77       91.01
78-02       6-26-78     30.02
78-03       8-7-78      32.01 -
                        32.04
79-02       4-9-79      30.02
79-03       12-3-79     90.01 -
                        90.14
80-01       2-11-80     T.S.O. Table III
                        112.01 -
80-02       3-3-80      112.10,
                        112.99
80-04       4-7-80      132.01 -
                        132.03
80-05       4-28-80     131.01
80-06       7-7-80      131.02
                        93.15 -
80-07       9-2-80      93.27,
                        93.99
80-09       12-29-80    31.01 -
                        31.09
81-03       4-6-81      131.03,
                        131.04
81-05       4-27-81     10.99
82-01       1-13-82     35.01,
                        35.02
84-02       1-31-84     150.01
84-06       7-2-84      152.01
84-9, 11(5) 12-12-84    50.113
84-10       8-6-84      T.S.O. Table II
84-11       8-14-84     T.S.O. Table IV
84-12       9-17-84     T.S.O. Table IV
85-01       1-14-85     30.02
85-02       1-14-85     30.02
85-06       10-8-85     T.S.O. Table IV
                        T.S.O. Tables
86-01       3-31-86     III and
                        IV
86-02       5-20-86     T.S.O. Table IV
86-05       9-22-86     T.S.O. Table IV
86-06       12-9-86     T.S.O. Table IV
86-07       12-9-86     T.S.O. Table II
87-04       10-13-87    T.S.O. Table IV
88-02       4-28-88     T.S.O. Table IV
88-05       7-5-88      T.S.O. Table IV
88-06       10-11-88    T.S.O. Table IV
88-07       10-11-88    T.S.O. Table IV
89-02       1-10-89     151.15 -
                        151.20
89-03       1-30-89     T.S.O. Table IV
89-09       11-13-90    T.S.O. Table IV
90-01       11-14-89    T.S.O. Table II
90-03       6-11-90     T.S.O. Table IV
91-03       3-12-91     T.S.O. Table IV
91-04       4-9-91      T.S.O. Table IV
91-05       5-6-91      T.S.O. Table IV
91-07       6-10-91     T.S.O. Table IV
91-08       6-10-91     T.S.O. Table I
91-10       8-7-91      T.S.O. Table IV
92-03       1-23-92     T.S.O. Table IV
92-04       2-25-92     151.19
92-06       6-9-92      T.S.O. Table IV
92-08       4-14-92     T.S.O. Table IV
92-12       11-10-92    30.03
93-02       2-9-93      50.004
93-03       4-13-93     113.01 -
                        113.08
                        130.01 -
93-04       4-13-93     130.08,
                        130.99
93-05       3-17-93     T.S.O. Table IV
93-07       5-11-93     T.S.O. Table IV
93-10       10-12-93    T.S.O. Table IV
93-11       10-12-93    T.S.O. Table III
94-01       1-11-94     36.01
94-02       3-28-94     34.01 -
                        34.08
94-07       8-9-94      T.S.O. Table IV
95-04       2-14-95     111.01 -
                        111.32
95-05       5-9-95      90.01 -
                        90.14
95-17       11-14-95    91.01
95-19       10-18-95    Appendix
96-05       7-1-96      Adopting Ordinance
97-04       6-9-97      Adopting Ordinance
97-05       7-8-97      T.S.O. Table IV
97-07       8-12-97     152.01
                        112.01 -
97-08       11-11-97    112.10,
                        112.99
98-1        2-10-98     114.01 -
                        114.03
98-10       12-7-98     T.S.O. Table II
99-05       6-7-99      91.01
99-10       10-4-99     T.S.O. Table V
99-11       1-3-00      T.S.O. Table II
00-09       7-10-00     T.S.O. IV
01-02       2-5-01      152.01
01-03       2-5-01      152.01
01-04       2-5-01      152.01
01-05       2-5-01      152.01
01-11       1-7-02      T.S.O. Table II
02-01       2-4-02      T.S.O. Table I
02-02       2-4-02      T.S.O. Table II
                        130.01 -
02-03       4-1-02      130.08,
                        130.99
02-04       3-11-02     T.S.O. Table I
02-06       5-22-02     T.S.O. Table I
02-08       6-3-02      T.S.O. Table II
02-12       11-4-02     T.S.O. Table IV
02-13       1-6-03      T.S.O. Table I
02-14       1-6-03      T.S.O. Table I
03-01       2-3-03      152.01
03-02       3-3-03      33.01 -
                        33.08
03-05       6-2-03      52.01 -
                        52.08
                        112.01 -
03-07       10-6-03     112.10,
                        112.99
03-11       12-1-03     152.01
04-06       9-13-04     37.01
05-01       1-11-05     T.S.O. Table I
05-02       1-11-05     T.S.O. Table I
05-08       6-21-05     T.S.O. Table IV
05-10       6-21-05     37.01
05-13       12-5-05     T.S.O. Table II
05-14       1-3-06      T.S.O. Table IV
06-01       4-3-06      T.S.O. Table IV
                        35.10 -
06-02       5-1-06      35.13,
                        35.99
06-03       5-1-06      37.01
06-04       5-1-06      30.02
06-05       6-5-06      154.01
06-09       6-30-06     T.S.O. Table II
06-10       8-7-06      Adopting Ordinance
06-11       9-13-06     T.S.O. Table IV
06-12       9-25-06     154.01
06-13       10-2-06     34.20
06-14       9-25-06     155.01
06-17       10-2-06     T.S.O. Table IV
06-19       12-4-06     34.21
07-01       4-2-07      T.S.O. Table IV
07-02       4-2-07      T.S.O. Table IV
07-03       5-7-07      91.02
07-04       6-4-07      T.S.O. Table IV
07-06       5-22-07     151.15 -
                        151.21
07-09       7-9-07      150.02
07-10       8-6-07      94.01 -
                        94.10
07-11       9-4-07      152.01
07-12       11-5-07     T.S.O. Table IV
08-01       2-4-08      T.S.O. Table IV
08-03       6-2-08      152.01
                        95.01 -
08-04       6-2-08      95.13,
                        95.99
08-05       7-7-08      152.01
08-11       9-2-08      152.01
08-13       11-3-08     152.01
08-14       12-2-08     152.01
08-16       1-5-09      152.01
08-17       1-5-09      93.02
09-01       4-6-09      33.01 -
                        33.09
09-02       5-4-09      152.01
09-03       5-4-09      152.01
09-04       5-4-09      155.01
09-05       5-18-09     T.S.O. Table II
09-08       9-8-09      152.01
09-09       9-8-09      152.01
09-10       9-8-09      152.01
09-11       9-8-09      152.01
09-14       12-7-09     T.S.O. Table I
                        92.01 -
09-15       2-1-10      92.08,
                        92.99
09-16       2-1-10      152.01
09-17       2-1-10      152.01
10-02       4-20-10     T.S.O. Table IV
10-05       6-22-10     T.S.O. Table IV
10-06       10-4-10     T.S.O. Table IV
10-07       10-4-10     37.01
Res.        11-1-10     37.01
10-08       12-6-10     T.S.O. Table V
                        50.001 -
                        50.007,
                        50.020 -
                        50.023,
                        50.026 -
                        50.035 ,
                        50.045 -
                        50.056,
11-01       1-3-11      50.070 -
                        50.099,
                        50.111 - 50.125,
                        50.135 -
                        50.146,
                        50.160 -
                        50.173,
                        50.185 -
                        50.189,
                        Ch. 50 Appendix
11-02       4-4-11      T.S.O. Table IV
11-03       4-4-11      152.01
11-04       4-4-11      152.01
11-05       4-4-11      152.01
                        93.15 -
11-06       5-2-11      93.27,
                        93.99
11-07       5-2-11      33.05,
                        33.06
                        96.01 -
11-11       11-7-11     96.15,
                        96.99
                        133.01 -
12-01       1-3-12      133.05,
                        133.99
                        133.01 -
12-01       3-5-12      133.05,
                        133.99
12-02       3-5-12      152.01
                        93.15 -
12-03       4-2-12      93.27,
                        93.99
12-04       4-2-12      T.S.O. Table IV
12-06       6-1-12      T.S.O. Table I
12-07       9-4-12      155.01
12-08       9-4-12      152.01
13-01       2-4-13      154.01
                        T.S.O.
13-02       5-6-13      Table
                        IV
13-03       6-3-13      154.01
13-04       7-1-13      152.01,
                        155.01
13-07       9-3-13      Adopting Ordinance
13-08       9-3-13      34.22
                        T.S.O.
13-09       1-6-14      Table
                        IV
13-10       1-6-14      152.01
13-11       1-6-14      91.01
                        T.S.O.
14-03       6-2-14      Table
                        II
                        50.024,
14-09       12-1-14     50.027,
                        50.056
                        T.S.O.
15-02       6-1-15      Table
                        IV
                        T.S.O.
15-05       7-6-15      Table
                        IV
15-06       11-2-15     T.S.O. Table I
15-08       1-4-16      38.01 -
                        38.03
                        51.01 -
16-01       3-7-16      51.33.
                        51.99
                        T.S.O.
16-02       4-4-16      Table
                        III
16-03       4-4-16      152.01
16-04       4-4-16      152.01
16-06       4-4-16      154.01
                        T.S.O.
16-07       5-10-16     Table
                        II
                        90.01 -
                        90.18,
16-08       4-4-16      90.30 -
                        90.34,
                        90.97 -
                        90.99
16-09       5-10-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-10       5-10-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-11       5-10-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-12       5-10-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-13       5-10-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-14       5-10-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-15       5-10-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-20       6-6-16      T.S.O. Table IV
                        90.01 -
                        90.18,
16-22       9-6-16      90.30 -
                        90.34,
                        90.97 -
                        90.99
16-23       10-3-16     T.S.O. Table I
16-24       11-7-16     T.S.O. Table I
17-01       2-6-17      T.S.O. Table IV
17-02       2-6-17      T.S.O. Table IV
17-03       2-6-17      34.23
17-04       4-3-17      33.01 -
                        33.08
17-06       4-3-17      33.10
                        50.024,
17-09       8-7-17      50.027,
                        50.056
17-11       10-2-17     34.22
17-12       10-2-17     T.S.O. Table II
17-13       11-6-17     T.S.O. Table IV
17-14       11-6-17     T.S.O. Table IV
17-16       1-2-18      T.S.O. Table IV
17-17       1-2-18      T.S.O. Table IV
17-18       1-2-18      T.S.O. Table IV
                        153.01 -
                        153.10,
                        153.20 -
                        153.24,
                        153.30 -
17-19       12-14-17    153.34,
                        153.40 -
                        153.47,
                        153.50,
                        153.51,
                        153.99
18-02       3-5-18      T.S.O. Table II
18-03    4-2-18   T.S.O. Table IV
18-04       4-2-18      T.S.O. Table IV
18-05       4-2-18      T.S.O. Table IV
                        70.001 -
                        70.008,
                        70.025 -
                        70.053,
                        70.070,
                        70.071,
                        70.085 -
                        70.088,
                        70.100 -
                        70.123,
18-06       5-7-18      70.150 -
                        70.154,
                        70.170 -
                        70.174,
                        70.185 -
                        70.196,
                        70.210 -
                        70.212,
                        70.230,
                        70.231,
                        70.999
18-07       5-7-18      151.01
18-09       5-7-18      T.S.O. Table V
18-10       5-7-18      T.S.O. Table V
18-12       6-4-18      T.S.O. Table III
18-13       6-4-18   34.01 -
                        34.08
18-17       8-6-18      T.S.O. Table IV
18-19       10-1-18     T.S.O. Table IV
18-20       10-1-18     34.01 -
                        34.08
18-21       11-5-18     34.20
18-22       11-5-18     156.01 -
                        156.08
18-24       12-3-18     152.01
19-01       3-4-19      T.S.O. Table IV
19-02       3-4-19      T.S.O. Table IV
19-03       4-1-19      T.S.O. Table IV
                        50.001 -
                        50.007,
                        50.020 -
                        50.024,
                        50.026 -
                        50.035,
                        50.045 -
                        50.056,
19-04       5-6-19      50.070 -
                        50.099,
                        50.110 - 50.125,
                        50.135 -
                        50.146,
                        50.160 -
                        50.173,
                        50.185 -
                        50.189,
                        Ch. 50 Appendix
19-05       5-6-19      T.S.O. Table IV
19-08       6-3-19      T.S.O. Table IV
19-10       10-7-19     T.S.O. Table II
19-11       11-4-19     T.S.O. Table IV
19-12       1-6-20      T.S.O. Table I
19-13       11-4-19     T.S.O. Table I
19-14       12-2-19     T.S.O. Table II
19-15       11-4-19     T.S.O. Table II
19-16       12-2-19     T.S.O. Table II
20-01       2-10-20     50.027,
                        50.056
20-02       2-10-20     T.S.O. Table IV
20-04       6-8-20   T.S.O. Table IV
20-05       6-8-20   T.S.O. Table IV
20-11       9-8-20   T.S.O. Table IV
20-12       10-5-20     Adopting Ordinance   
20-13       12-7-20     T.S.O. Table II
21-01       1-4-21      T.S.O. Table IV
21-02       1-4-21      T.S.O. Table I
21-03       4-5-21      T.S.O. Table IV
                        97.01 -
21-07       8-2-21      97.05,
                        97.99
21-10       7-12-21     152.01
21-11       8-2-21      T.S.O. Table I
21-12       10-4-21     T.S.O. Table IV
                        110.01 -
                        110.20,
21-14       12-6-21     110.99,
                        Ch. 110, Appendix A,
                        Appendix B
22-01       1-3-22      T.S.O. Table I
22-03       3-7-22      T.S.O. Table IV
22-05       4-4-22      T.S.O. Table IV
                        50.001 -
                        50.007,
                        50.020 -
                        50.024,
                        50.026 -
                        50.035,
                        50.045 -
                        50.056,
22-07       5-2-22      50.070 -
                        50.099,
                        50.110 -
                        50.125,
                        50.135 -
                        50.146,
                        50.160 -
                        50.173,
                        50.185 -
                        50.189
22-09       6-6-22      34.23
22-11       6-6-22      T.S.O. Table I
22-14       8-1-22      152.01
22-15       8-1-22      152.01
22-17       9-7-22      T.S.O. Table II
22-18       10-3-22     T.S.O. Table III
22-19       10-3-22     T.S.O. Table IV
22-20       11-7-22     30.02
22-22       11-7-22     T.S.O. Table V
22-21       12-5-22     T.S.O. Table IV
23-01       2-2-23      T.S.O. Table II
23-02       2-2-23      T.S.O. Table I
23-05       3-7-23      152.01,
                        155.01
                        50.001 -
                        50.007,
                        50.020 -
                        50.035,
                        50.045 -
                        50.056,
                        50.070 -
23-06       4-4-23      50.099,
                        50.110 -
                        50.125,
                        50.135 -
                        50.146,
                        50.160 -
                        50.173,
                        50.185 -
                        50.189
23-08       5-2-23      T.S.O. Table II
23-10       7-11-23     T.S.O. Table IV
23-12       8-22-23     T.S.O. Table II
23-13       9-5-23      T.S.O. Table IV
23-14       9-5-23      154.01
23-15       11-7-23     Ch. 110, Appendix A,
                        Appendix B
23-16       11-7-23     T.S.O. Table IV
23-17       11-7-23     T.S.O. Table II
24-01       2-13-24     T.S.O. Table I
24-02       2-13-24     T.S.O. Table II
24-04       6-4-24      T.S.O. Table IV
24-06       6-4-24      T.S.O. Table II
24-08       7-2-24      T.S.O. Table IV
24-09       8-6-24      T.S.O. Table V
24-10       8-6-24      T.S.O. Table V
24-12       10-1-24     98.01
24-13       10-1-24     T.S.O. Table II
24-14       10-14-24    T.S.O. Table II
24-15       11-5-24     T.S.O. Table I
                       
 
 
